a model of tripeptidyl - peptidase i ( cln2 ) , a ubiquitous and highly conserve member of the sedolisin family of serine - carboxyl peptidase
abstract
background
tripeptidyl - peptidase i , also know a cln2 , be a member of the family of sedolisins ( serine - carboxyl peptidase ) .
in human , defect in expression of this enzyme lead to a fatal neurodegenerative disease , classical late - infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis .
similar enzyme have be find in the genomic sequence of several specie , but neither systematic analysis of their distribution nor modeling of their structure have be previously attempt .
result
we have analyze the presence of orthologs of human cln2 in the genomic sequence of a number of eukaryotic specie .
enzyme with sequence share over 80 % identity have be find in the genome of macaque , mouse , rat , dog , and cow .
closely relate , although clearly distinct , enzyme be present in fish ( fugu and zebra ) , as well a in frog ( xenopus tropicalis ) .
a three - dimensional model of human cln2 be build base mainly on the homology with pseudomonas sp .
101 sedolisin .
conclusion
cln2 be very highly conserve and widely distribute among high organism and may play an important role in their life cycle .
the model present here indicate a very open and accessible active site that be almost completely conserve among all know cln2 enzyme .
this result be somehow surprising for a tripeptidase where the presence of a more constrained binding pocket be anticipate .
this structural model should be useful in the search for the physiological substrate of these enzyme and in the design of more specific inhibitor of cln2 .
background
although the existence of tripeptidyl - peptidase i ( tpp - i ) be first note over 40 year ago [ 1 ] , the structural and mechanistic basis of it activity have be largely misunderstand until quite recently .
the situation change after it be show that tpp - i be identical to an independently characterize enzyme name cln2 .
it be also demonstrate that mutation lead to abolishment of the enzymatic activity of cln2 be the direct cause of a fatal inherit neurodegenerative disease , classical late - infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis [ 2 ] .
this important observation be follow by the identification of cln2 a a serine peptidase [ 3 , 4 ] , without , however , specify it structural fold and the detail of the catalytic site .
more accurate placement of cln2 within the context of a family of related enzyme become possible only after high - resolution crystal structure of two bacterial enzyme with a limit sequence similarity to cln2 , sedolisin and kumamolisin , become available [ 5 - 7 ] .
these structure define a novel family of enzyme , now call sedolisins or serine - carboxyl peptidase , that be characterize by the utilization of a fully conserve catalytic triad ( ser , glu , asp ) and by the presence of an asp in the oxyanion hole [ 8 ] .
sedolisin and it several variant ( e.g. , kumamolisin , aorsin [ 9 ] , and physarolisin [ 10 ] ) have now be find in archaea , bacteria , fungi and amoeba , whereas the high organism seem to contain only variant of cln2 [ 8 ] .
the physiological role of sedolisins in the low organism have not yet be elucidate .
despite the potential medical importance of cln2 and related enzyme , no systematic study of their genomic distribution have be publish to date .
there be also no publish report of the crystallization of this enzyme .
in the absence of an experimental structure obtain by crystallography or nmr it be sometimes necessary to resort to molecular modeling in order to provide a structural basis for the explanation of the biological property of an enzyme , and , in particular , to initiate design of it inhibitor .
example of such very successful and useful modeling effort be provide by hiv protease [ 11 ] , or very recently by the peptidase from a coronavirus involve in the severe acute respiratory syndrome [ 12 ] , among others .
we have now apply the tool of molecular homology modeling to predict a structure of cln2 that could be use a a basis for a search for the biological substrate of this family of enzyme and for the design of specific inhibitor .
result and discussion
sequence comparison of the cln2 - like enzyme
mammalian enzyme homologous to human cln2 [ 2 , 4 ] form a subfamily of sedolisins with highly conserve sequence ( figure 1 ) .
these enzyme be express with a prosegment consist of 195 residue that be cleave off during maturation , yield the active catalytic domain .
complete sequence be available for cln2 from six specie in which it have be find so far ( human , macaque , dog , mouse , rat , and cow ) .
the full - length enzyme consist of 563 amino acid arrange in a single polypeptide chain contain both the prosegment and the catalytic domain , with the exception of mouse cln2 that have a single deletion in the prosegment .
the overall sequence identity for these enzyme be 81 % , whereas the similarity be 92 % .
a pairwise comparison of the human and mouse enzyme yield 88 % identity and 94 % similarity , considerably high than the median 78.5 % identity report for all identify mouse - human orthologs [ 13 ] .
thus , mammalian cln2 appear to be a highly conserve enzyme .
figure 1
sequence comparison of mammalian cln2 - like enzyme .
these sequence correspond to the complete enzyme , include the prosegment .
residue form the active site be show in yellow on red background , other conserve residue identify a important for the stability of the enzyme be mark with yellow background , residue identical in at least 5 of the structure be green , and residue similar in their character be show in magenta .
the maturation cleavage point generate the n terminus of the active enzyme be mark with black triangle .
in addition to the mammal , cln2 - like enzyme be also find in fugu ( puffer fish – unannotated record sinfrup00000077297 in the ncbi fugu sequence database , ) and zebrafish ( contig wz4596.2 in the zebrafish est database , ) .
only a fragment of the sequence of the latter enzyme agree with the former .
however , a few comparatively minor modification can bring the zebrafish sequence into good agreement with that of the fugu cln2 .
these modification include a deletion of a single nucleotide from a run of three , as well a three insertion of repeat nucleotide pair ( figure 2 ) .
it must be stress that these modification be speculative and may lead to prediction of several incorrect amino acid ; however , they bring the two sequence into good global agreement ( 69 % identity and 83 % similarity ) .
figure 2
correct gene sequence of the zebrafish cln2 .
this putative sequence show the manual correction that bring it into alignment with the sequence of the fugu enzyme .
insert nucleotide be mark in green and a delete one in red .
the available amino acid sequence of the fugu cln2 analog , name by u sedolisin - tpp [ 8 ] , be also in good agreement with the sequence of the mammalian orthologs ( figure 3 ) .
the only major difference in the translate amino acid sequence compare to the mammalian and zebrafish enzyme be in the amino terminus of the propeptide region that be short by 30 amino acid ( not show ) .
it be very likely that this represent a fault in the assemble sequence rather than a real variation , since the current cod frame be not initiate with a methionine , and a few extra residue be present in the full genomic sequence available from the fugu sequencing consortium .
figure 3
sequence of the catalytic domain of cln2 .
complete sequence be show for cln2 from human , fugu , and zebrafish , together with the partial sequence of putative cln2 in xenopus tropicalis .
residue identical in all four enzyme be color green and those similar be color magenta .
active site residue be mark a in figure 1 .
cln2 be present not only in fish , but also in amphibian , in particular in xenopus tropicalis ( a specie of frog ) .
a partial sequence of it sedolisin - tpp ( al594774 ) find in the est database span the middle part of the catalytic domain , without reach the part of the active site closer to the n terminus that contain the aspartic and glutamic acid that belong to the catalytic triad .
however , the sequence part of the enzyme show 75 % identity with the fugu sedolisin - tpp , and 69 % identity with human cln2 ( figure 3 ) .
sequence similarity to bacterial or fungal sedolisins be much low , indicate that the enzyme find in frog might also share the functional property of the cln2 subfamily .
the discovery of highly conserve cln2 - like enzyme not only in mammal but also in two fish specie and one of frog may indicate that these peptidase be universally present in the vertebrate , and that their important role identify in human [ 2 ] and mouse [ 14 ] might be a more general feature .
modeling of the structure of human cln2
the medical importance of cln2 and the lack of a crystal structure inspire attempt at protein modeling .
the first such model assume that this enzyme be membrane - bind , with the sequence 271 – 294 ( numbering correspond to the mature enzyme , figure 1 ) form the putative transmembrane anchor [ 15 ] .
however , in view of the subsequently obtain structure of the fully water - soluble sedolisins , this model be clearly incorrect .
exploit the sequence similarity between cln2 , sedolisin , and kumamolisin ( figure 4 ) , we have now use the experimentally obtain structure of the latter two enzyme to form a new , homology - derive model of human cln2 .
the primary basis of the homology model be the structure of a complex of sedolisin with a covalently - bound inhibitor , pseudo-iodotyrostatin .
although it have not be directly show that this compound can inhibit human cln2 , other similar peptide with an aldehyde functionality on their " c - terminus " be weak , but detectable , inhibitor of this enzyme ( oda , unpublished ) .
it be thus likely that pseudo-iodotyrostatin or a similar inhibitor might work for cln2 as well , although the actual contact between the inhibitor and the enzyme that be see in the model have to be treat with caution .
another reason for the modeling of a pseudo-iodotyrostatin complex be that cln2 be a tripeptidase , and that this inhibitor it represent the only experimental structure of a tripeptide analog bind to sedolisin .
figure 4
sequence alignment of bacterial and mammalian enzyme .
alignment of the sequence of sedolisin , kumamolisin , and human cln2 use in the construction of the model of the latter enzyme .
the color scheme be the same a in figure 2 .
the r.m.s. deviation between the correspond cα coordinate of the model of cln2 ( figure 5 ) and the experimental structure of sedolisin be about 1.75 å , not much large than the experimental difference between sedolisin and kumamolisin .
interestingly , the cys327 and cys342 residue in the model be find to be ideally position to form a disulfide bond even though this be not part of the design strategy .
that this bond likely occur in the real protein be suggest by the fact that these two cysteine be strictly conserve in all know animal specie of cln2 ( figure 1 and 3 ) , although they be absent in all know sequence of bacterial sedolisins .
thus , if this disulfide be experimentally find to exist in cln2 it would provide support for the correctness of the model .
figure 5
a homology - derive model of human cln2 .
ribbon diagram of the cα trace of cln2 , with the segment that be model base on the highly conserve core of sedolisin and kumamolisin ( r.m.s. deviation of 1 å ) color in red .
side chain of the residue that be find to be mutated in the gene of family of patient with late - infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis [ 17 ] be mark in ball - and - stick .
comparison of the substrate bind pocket of cln2 and sedolisin
since the principal known activity of cln2 be that of a tripeptidase , it be expect that three substrate - bind pocket , s1 through s3 ( use the nomenclature of schechter and berger [ 16 ] ) , should be discernible .
residue p1 - p3 of the inhibitor that should occupy these pocket be show in figure 6 .
all the available structure of the complex of either sedolisin or kumamolisin with inhibitor contain either a tyrosine or a phenylalanine occupy the s1 pocket .
part of this pocket be fully conserve among different sedolisins , whereas other part of it differ .
the right - hand side of the pocket ( in the view use in figure 6 ) be make of the main chain include residue 164 – 165 ( unless otherwise indicate , the numbering refer to the sequence of the mature human cln2 ) .
this part of the main chain be hold in place through a hydrogen - bond interaction with the side chain of thr279 , part of the signature sequence sgtsas surround the catalytic ser280 and it equivalent in the other enzyme .
asp165 itself be also conserve since that residue provide the lining of the oxyanion hole , so it can be safely assume that this part of the s1 pocket be virtually identical .
no side chain point into the pocket from there , though , so it importance be limit to provide a steric barrier and exclude solvent .
another wall of the pocket be make up of the main chain of residue 130 – 132 that flank the conserve gly131 .
again , this part of the chain do not provide any specific interaction with the p1 residue of the substrate .
figure 6
a model of the active site of human cln2 .
the enzyme be show in complex with pseudo-iodotyrostatin , a good inhibitor of the sedolisin family of peptidase .
only select residue of the enzyme be explicitly show on the background consist of the molecular surface .
the stick model of the inhibitor be color gold and the p1 - p3 residue be label in black .
similar view have be previously publish for the experimentally - determine structure of sedolisin and kumamolisin [ 8 ] .
the figure be prepare use the program dino .
considerable difference be see , however , at the bottom of the pocket , where the side chain of asp179 in kumamolisin and the equivalent ser190 in sedolisin make hydrogen bond to the p1 tyrosine of the inhibitor ( if present ) .
the equivalent residue in cln2 be thr182 , but it be very unlikely that it can assume an orientation that would allow it to make a hydrogen bond to a p1 tyrosine .
other polar residue in the vicinity be glu175 in sedolisin and the corresponding asp169 in kumamolisin .
however , the residue find here in cln2 be cys170 , much less polar than it counterpart .
there be also no equivalent to the polar interaction between glu175 and glu171 in sedolisin , since the equivalent of the latter residue in cln2 be ser166 , much small and point away .
the side of the s1 pocket that be create by the very flexible side chain of arg179 in sedolisin contain only a much small ser174 in cln2 , and thus be much more open in the latter protein .
this part of the pocket , with the main chain of the protein quite distant from the substrate , be indeed not well conserved in these protein , with kumamolisin miss it entirely due to a deletion in the correspond sequence position .
in summary , the s1 pocket in cln2 have less polar character than the equivalent pocket in the relate protein , and be lack direct polar anchor for any side chain that might be present in the substrate .
the s2 pocket in cln2 be also quite open and accessible to solvent .
it be most likely large than the equivalent pocket in either sedolisin or kumamolisin , since these be limit by trp81 in the former and trp129 in the latter ( these residue originate from different part of the backbone in the two enzyme and be not topologically relate ) .
tyr130 , an equivalent of the latter residue in cln2 , be unlikely to come into direct contact with the p2 residue of the substrate due to it great distance ( almost 4 å for the close atom ) .
an important remaining puzzle be that the predict structure of cln2 do not show any clear limitation of the s3 pocket that could explain the tripeptidase activity of this enzyme .
the location of the p3 side chain of the substrate be ambiguous , since it could point in either one of two direction by exchange with the n - terminal amine .
the only negatively charged residue of cln2 that be find in this vicinity be asp132 .
although in the current model the distance between it carboxylate and the nitrogen of the n - terminus of the model substrate be about 6 å , these two group could be bring into hydrogen - bond range by some allow change in the torsion angle of the protein .
such a conformational change would involve breaking of the hydrogen bond between asp132 and ser139 .
however , this latter interaction be not likely to be structurally crucial since the serine be not absolutely conserve in all cln2 - like enzyme .
location of mutation implicate in disease
location of mutation find through a genetic survey of family of classic late - infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis patient have be describe previously [ 17 ] .
most such mutation result in expression of either truncate enzyme or in incorrect intron - exon splice .
however , some of the mutation lead to single amino acid substitution in the mature enzyme .
such mutation include i92n , e148k , c170r and c170y , v190d , g194e , q227h , r252h , a259e , and s280l ( figure 5 ) .
only the role of the latter mutation be completely clear , since it replace the catalytic serine of cln2 with a side chain that can not support it enzymatic activity .
no other residue appear to be locate in the immediate vicinity of the substrate .
residue val190 , gly194 , and arg252 be very highly conserved not only in cln2 but also in other sedolisins and must play an important structural role .
the reason why the remain mutation would lead to the loss of enzymatic activity be much less clear , but the wide distribution of these mutation in the structure support the conclusion that any modification to cln2 that would abolish or impair it function could lead to the development of the disease .
substrate and inhibitor of cln2
little be know at this time about biologically - relevant substrate of cln2 .
various defect that include truncation and single - site mutation in cln2 have be find in the gene of patient that display symptom of late - infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis [ 17 ] .
one of the symptom of the disease be the accumulation of an autofluorescent material , ceroid - lipofuscin , in lysosomal storage body in various cell type , primarily in the nervous system .
since a major component of such body appear to be intact subunit c of mitochondrial atp synthase , this protein have be implicate a a potential biological target of the protease .
it have be show recently that cln2 can indeed degrade this subunit on it n terminus [ 18 ] , but the unambiguous proof that this be indeed the most important target be still lacking .
cln2 be capable of process a number of different angiotensin - derive peptide [ 19 ] , with the efficiency of cleavage dependent on the length of such peptide .
the most efficiently process peptide consist of 14 amino acid , with the tripeptide asp - arg - val remove from it n terminus .
the model of cln2 present here can easily accommodate this peptide on the p side of the substrate - bind site , although the exact mode of binding of the long p ' portion of the substrate remain obscure .
the observation that an analogous peptide acetylate on it n terminus can not be process support the postulate that the interaction of the n - terminal amino group with the side chain of asp132 may be the most important feature define the tripeptidase specificity of cln2 .
a number of different tripeptides can be serially process from glucagon , with their sequence vary widely [ 20 ] .
again , however , all of these tripeptides can be easily accommodate in the substrate - bind site of the cln2 model .
other potentially biologically relevant substrate include cholecystokinin and possibly other neuropeptides [ 21 ] .
an intriguing property of cln2 be it report ability to cleave collagen - relate peptide [ 22 ] .
the tripeptides result from such processing include gly - pro - met , gly - pro - arg , and gly - pro - ala .
it have be recently report that kumamolisin , and particularly a closely related protein from alicyclobacillus sendaiensis ( kumamolisin - a ) can efficiently cleave not only collagen - relate peptide , but also native type i collagen [ 23 ] .
with the substrate - bind site of cln2 resemble that of kumamolisin more than sedolisin ( the latter enzyme have low , if any , collagenase activity ) , the potential collagen - process role of cln2 might warrant further investigation .
conclusion
since the catalytic machinery of cln2 match closely that of sedolisin , kumamolisin , and other member of the family of serine - carboxyl peptidase , the enzymatic mechanism of all these enzyme be most likely the same .
design of inhibitor specific for cln2 should incorporate the feature that have be prove to be important for the relate enzyme , such a the placement of an aldehyde functionality capable of make covalent interaction with the catalytic serine , or the utilization of chloromethyl ketone for the same purpose .
since the few inhibitor that have be successfully use in the study of sedolisins be either long than tripeptides or contain block group on their n terminus , new tripeptide - base inhibitor with free n terminus be now be synthesize ( oda , unpublished ) .
it will be necessary to test the binding property of different substrate in order to determine the most promising peptide sequence .
analysis of the model of cln2 suggest that the size of the s1 subsite be much large than in either sedolisin or kumamolisin , and thus the use of a large p1 group might be indicate .
of course , the availability of an experimental crystal structure will make the design of inhibitor easy and we be continue our effort to crystallize cln2 from different source .
method
homology modeling
three - dimensional , atomic - scale model of cln2 be develop by exploit the sequence similarity to the sedolisin and kumamolisin protein ( r.m.s. deviation of 1.0 å for 273 pair of cα atom in the core of the enzyme ) .
presently , these two enzyme be the only member of the newly - define sedolisin / serine - carboxyl peptidase family [ 8 ] for which the crystal structure have be publish [ 5 - 7 ] .
the actual protein data bank [ 24 ] : ) entry use in the modeling be 1ga4.pdb and 1gt9.pdb for sedolisin and kumamolisin , respectively .
the first step be to form a global , multiple sequence alignment between all know member of the sedolisin family .
study have show that incorporate the specific pattern of amino acid residue - type variation and conservation among a family of homologous protein provide superior result over simple , pair-wise sequence alignment [ 25 ] .
sequence file represent the different subfamily be extract from the non-redundant genbank database [ 26 ] use sedolisin , kumamolisin , and the human cln2 sequence a query to the web - base version of the blast program [ 27 ] : .
initial multiple sequence alignment be form with the clustalx computer program [ 28 ] .
a be expect for a family of protein , highly - conserve segment be find align to the crystal structure - identify core region of the sedolisin and kumamolisin sequence .
subsequently , the sequence be divide into two group : those closer to sedolisin than kumamolisin and vise - a - versa .
the alignment of these two group be then manually set by the observe structural alignment of the sedolisin and kumamolisin protein .
finally , some additional adjustment be require to correct the few place where highly conserve residue of the core region be slightly out of alignment among different subfamily of sequence .
the model of human cln2 be build use the structure of sedolisin complexed with the inhibitor pseudo-tyrostatin [ 5 , 6 ] a a template .
the reason for this choice be that while different protein model be generally comparable , the choose inhibitor be most compatible with the tripeptidase character of cln2 .
with the correspondence of residue specify in the alignment , atomic coordinate be transfer to the target sequence by a variety of method , include the homology model module of the look / genemine [ 29 ] and deepview [ 30 ] computer program package .
for the core and active site of the protein , coordinate for identical residue be simply transfer unchanged ; whereas , special care be require to position the side chain of residue differ from the template .
this be first accomplish automatically by the two computer package , then manually adjust in the quantum molecular modeling package ( accelrys , inc. ) to well mimic the template and optimize the interaction with surround residue .
a similar two - step approach be use to manifest the insertion and deletion in the variable , loop region of the protein , where it be necessary to create new backbone as well a side chain coordinate for the model .
it should be note that , for obvious reason , the conformation of poorly conserve loop region be generally the least accurate aspect of a homology model .
fortunately , these problematic loop will not significantly affect the active site of the model , since only two of them impinge on the boundary of this highly conserve , functional region .
refinement and analysis of the model
the model be finish by perform energy minimization in vacuo with the computer program charmm [ 31 ] .
this refine the structure by bring the covalent geometry and non-bonded interaction into agreement with experimentally observe and calculate value .
such optimization include adjust bond length , 3 - point angle and 4 - point dihedral angle , as well a eliminate atomic overlap and form salt - bridge and hydrogen bond .
since presently the potential energy function use to describe the atomic - scale model be not sufficiently comprehensive and accurate , the final energy of the model be not use a an indicator of the realistic quality of the structure .
the final quality of the structure be analyze with the computer program procheck [ 32 ] .
the structure be deposit at the pdb under accession code 1r60 .
author ' contribution
aw initiate this project and analyze the genomic distribution of this family of enzyme .
srd contribute the modeling of the three - dimensional structure of cln2 .
ml analyze the model and compare it to the crystal structure of sedolisins .
ho , ko and bmd contribute their experience gain from study of serine - carboxyl peptidase and the design of their inhibitor , aim at analysis of substrate - enzyme interaction and enzyme specificity .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
extensive discussion with dr. a. barrett ( wellcome trust sanger institute , hinxton , uk ) be gratefully acknowledge .
model effort be facilitate by dr. robert jernigan ( iowa state university ) .
this work be support in part by a grant - in - aid for scientific research ( b ) , 15380072 , from the ministry of education , culture , sport , science and technology of japan ( to k.o. ) ; by nih grant dk18865 and ai39211 ( to b.m.d. ) ; and in part with federal fund from the national cancer institute , national institute of health , under contract no. no1 - co - 12400 .
the content of this publication do not necessarily reflect the view or policy of the department of health and human service , nor do the mention of trade name , commercial product or organization imply endorsement by the u. s. government .
complex trait analysis of the mouse striatum : independent qtls modulate volume and neuron number
abstract
background
the striatum play a pivotal role in modulate motor activity and high cognitive function .
we analyze variation in striatal volume and neuron number in mouse and initiate a complex trait analysis to discover polymorphic gene that modulate the structure of the basal ganglion .
result
brain weight , brain and striatal volume , neuron - pack density and number be estimate bilaterally use unbiased stereological procedure in five inbred strain ( a / j , c57bl / 6j , dba / 2j , balb / cj , and bxd5 ) and an f2 intercross between a / j and bxd5 .
striatal volume range from 20 to 37 mm3 .
neuron - pack density range from approximately 50,000 to 100,000 neuron / mm3 , and the striatal neuron population range from 1.4 to 2.5 million .
inbred animal with large brain have large striata but low neuron - pack density result in a narrow range of average neuron population .
in contrast , there be a strong positive correlation between volume and neuron number among intercross progeny .
we map two quantitative trait locus ( qtls ) with selective effect on striatal architecture .
bsc10a map to the central region of chr 10 ( lr of 17.5 near d10mit186 ) and have intense effect on striatal volume and moderate effect on brain volume .
stnn19a map to distal chr 19 ( lr of 15 at d19mit123 ) and be associate with difference of up to 400,000 neuron among animal .
conclusion
we have discover remarkable numerical and volumetric variation in the mouse striatum , and we have be able to map two qtls that modulate independent anatomic parameter .
background
the dorsal striatum be a massive nucleus in the basal forebrain that play a pivotal role in modulate motor activity and high cognitive function .
approximately 90 % of all neuron in the striatum - 1.5 to 2.5 million in mouse [ 1 , 2 ] and 110 - 200 million in human [ 3 , 4 ] - belong to an unusual type ' of inhibitory projection cell refer to a medium spiny neuron [ 5 - 8 ] .
striatal neuron be divide into two major subpopulation ( patch and matrix ) , that have somewhat different gene expression profile and have different pattern of pre - and postsynaptic connection [ 9 - 13 ] .
number of medium spiny neuron and ratio of these and less numerous striatal interneurons be critical variable that influence motor performance and aspect of cognition .
in the case of huntington disease the loss of 15 - 30 % of the normal complement of medium spiny neuron lead to distinct movement disorder in both human and transgenic mouse model [ 14 - 17 ] .
the subset of gene that normally control the proliferation , differentiation , and survival of striatal neuron [ 18 - 20 ] be therefore of considerable importance in ensure adaptive behavior at maturity .
in this study we use a forward genetic approach [ 21 , 22 ] to begin to map and characterize member of the subset of normally polymorphic gene that specifically modulate the production and survival of striatal neuron .
our analysis of the neurogenetic control of striatal cell population rely on the combination of two complementary quantitative approach .
the first of these , complex trait analysis , be a comparatively new genetic method that make it possible to map individual locus that underlie polygenic trait [ 22 , 23 ] .
the second consist of a set of unbiased stereological procedure that can be use to obtain cell count accurately and efficiently from large number of case [ 24 , 25 ] .
from a technical point of view the mouse striatum have several advantage that make it an excellent target for complex trait analysis of the mammalian cns .
first , it be a large , cytoarchitectonically distinct region comprise approximately 5 - 6 % of the volume of the mouse brain .
second , the dorsal striatum have a comparatively homogenous cellular composition , potentially reduce the number of quantitative trait locus ( qtls ) that affect striatal neuron number .
finally , recent experiment on the molecular control of telencephalic development have highlight a number of gene that influence neuron proliferation and differentiation of the striatum and other neighbor forebrain structure [ 18 ] [ 26 - 30 ] .
we report here both neuroanatomic and genetic quantitative evidence that the size of the striatum and the number of neuron contain within it be modulate independently .
result
the result be divide in two section .
the first be a biometric analysis of variation of size and neuronal population in mouse striatum .
the second section be a quantitative genetic dissection and qtl analysis of variation in the size and neuronal population of the mouse striatum .
phenotype
strain difference
brain weight and striatal volume .
five strain be choose to represent low , mid , and high brain weight ( fig 1a ) .
brain weight of the two high strain , bxd5 ( 540 ± 9 mg sem ) and balb / cj ( 527 ± 13 mg ) , be significantly great ( p < .001 ) than that of c57bl / 6j ( 476 ± 5 mg ) .
similarly , the brain weight of a / j ( 395 ± 5 mg ) and dba / 2j ( 403 ± 5 mg ) be significantly low than those of the other three strain ( p < .001 ) .
a anticipate , difference in striatal volume correspond well with difference in brain weight and volume .
the striata of bxd5 ( 31.0 ± 0.9 mm3 ) and balb / cj ( 32.5 ± 1.6 mm3 ) mouse be significantly large ( p < .001 ) than those of c57bl / 6j ( 23.6 ± 0.6 mm3 ) , a / j ( 21.7 ± 1.0 mm3 ) , and dba / 2j ( 22.8 ± 0.6 mm3 ) strain .
figure 1
histogram of histologic phenotype for inbred strain of mouse .
 a .
brain weight difference be apparent between the three category ( f4 , 28 = 82.1 , p < .001 ) .
asterisk indicate significant difference on post-hoc test ( p < .005 ) .
b .
striatal volume .
there be significant difference in striatal volume between the low brain weight strain ( a / j , dba.2j ) and the high brain weight strain ( balb / cj , bxd5 ) .
c57bl6 / j mouse differ from the high , but not low brain weight strain ( f4 , 28 = 28.9 , p < .001 ) .
asterisk indicate significant difference on post-hoc test ( p < .005 ) .
c .
neuron - pack density in the striatum .
in general , brain with small striata have great neuron - pack density ( f4 , 28 = 17.6 , p < .001 ) .
asterisk indicate significant difference on post-hoc test ( p < .005 ) .
d .
neuron number in the striatum .
there be no significant difference in striatal neuronal number among the five inbred strain ( f4 , 28 = 2.0 . n ) .
striatal neuron - pack density .
there be a significant difference among strain in the packing density of striatal neuron ( p < .001 for all comparison ) .
a / j have a high mean density ( 84,800 ± 3,500 neuron / mm3 ) than all strain other than dba / 2j ( 80,400 ± 2,700 neuron / mm3 ) .
balb / cj ( 57,700 ± 2,500 neuron / mm3 ) and bxd5 ( 62,700 ± 2,600 neuron / mm3 ) do not differ significantly from each other , but do differ from all other strain .
c57bl / 6j ( 73,100 ± 1,700 ) differ from all other mouse with the exception of dba / 2j .
inbred strain with small striatal volume have high neuronal packing density ( fig 1c ) .
striatal neuron number .
a a result of the reciprocal relation between volume and density , there be no significant difference in striatal neuron number among the five strain .
total striatal neuron number range over a very modest range - from a low of 1.72 ± .015 million in c57bl / 6j to a high of 1.93 ± .035 million in bxd5 .
correlational statistic
our comparison be base on five strain , and one consequence of this modest sample size be that sample error and intraclass correlation may bias the result [ 31 ] .
we therefore also analyze a large sample of genetically heterogeneous abf2 intercross animal ( an f2 intercross between a / j and bxd5 ) .
we first determine that the distribution of all four dependent measure be normally distribute ( fig 2 ) , before subject the data to correlational analysis .
in this set of animal brain weight correlate significantly with striatal volume ( r = .82 , df = 42 , p < .001 , fig 3a ) .
striatal volume be negatively correlate with neuron - pack density overall ( r = - 0.32 , df = 42 , p < .05 ) , again indicate that the great the striatal volume , the low the neuron - pack density ( fig 3b ) .
despite this relationship , the total population of striatal neuron correlate positively with striatal volume in this large sample ( r = .60 , df = 42 , p < .001 ; fig 3c ) .
in this crucial respect , result from the genetically heterogeneous f2 animal differ from those of inbred strain .
figure 2
histogram of distribution of dependent measure in abdf2 subject .
brain weight ( a : χ2 = 2.91 , df = 2 , n ) , striatal volume ( b : χ2 = 1.13 , df = 2 , n ) , striatal neuron - pack density c : χ2 = 1.64 , df = 2 , n ) , and striatal neuron number ( d : χ2 = 0.73 , df = 2 , n ) be all normally distributed ( kolmogorov - smirnov normality test ) .
figure 3
scatterplots of subject from an f2 intercross between a bxd5 and a / j inbred strain ( abf2 , n = 44 ) illustrate correlation of striatal volume with brain weight ( a ) , striatal neuron - pack density ( b ) , and striatal neuron number ( c ) .
there be significant positive correlation between striatal volume and both brain weight and neuron number .
striatal volume negatively correlate with neuron - pack density in these subject .
***p < .001 ; *p < .05 .
qtl analysis
the analysis in this section be focus principally on two trait : striatal volume ( absolute and residual value ) , and striatal neuron number ( also absolute and residual value ) .
residual for these trait be compute for both trait to minimize the influence of brain weight .
two additional trait be map to assess specificity of the effect of putative qtl - bear interval , namely brain weight and non-striatal brain weight ( table 1 ) .
this last parameter be estimate by subtract the estimate bilateral striatal weight ( assume a specific gravity of 1.0 ) from that of the whole brain .
table 1
linkage statistic for striatal volume and neuron number
** allele inherit from bxd5 that increase a value be define a positive additive effect .
† lr value can be convert to lod score by divide by 4.6 .
previously describe qtl for brain weight [ 56 ] .
column heading : trait , the phenotype use in linkage analysis ; marker , the symbol of the microsatellite locus use to genotype mouse ; chr , the chromosome on which the marker be locate ; lr be the likelihood ratio statistic ( 4.6 x the lod score ) ; % var be the percentage of the total phenotypic variance apparently account for by difference in genotype in the an interval define by the marker ; p , the point - wise probability that the linkage be a false positive .
add and dom be estimate of the additive and dominance effect of genetic variation .
unit be the same a those of the trait ( volume in mm3 or number of cell ) .
the two bold locus mark with asterisk achieve genome - wide significance in this sample population .
the strong linkage be find between variation in striatal volume and an interval on chromosome 10 between the marker d10mit194 at 29 cm and d10mit209 at 49 cm .
the likelihood ratio statistic - a value that can be read a a chi - square - peak in this 20 cm interval at 17.5 and be associate with a p value of 0.00016 ( table 1 ) , equivalent to a lod score of 3.8 ( fig 4a ) .
the genome - wide probability of achieve a linkage of this strength by chance be < 0.05 .
this locus account for as much a a third of the total phenotypic variance in striatal volume and as much a 50 % of the genotypic variance ( h2 = 0.39 ) .
allele in this chr 10 interval that be inherit from the bxd5 parental strain contribute to a significantly large striatum than do allele inherit from a / j .
mean bilateral volume correct for shrinkage for the aa genotype at d10mit186 ( n = 11 ) be 25.3 ± 1.3 mm3 whereas that for ab and bb genotype be 29.1 ± 0.7 mm3 and 30.0 ± 0.5 mm3 ( n = 14 and 11 ) , respectively .
the insignificant difference between bb and ab genotype suggest that the b allele be dominant .
bxd5 be a recombinant inbred strain initially generate by cross strain c57bl / 6j and dba / 2j .
most of the proximal part of chr 10 in bxd5 be derive from dba / 2j , but a short interval between 40 and 50 cm be derive exclusively from c57bl / 6j .
this c57bl / 6j region correspond to the peak lr score .
we estimate a single b allele inherit from the bxd5 parent increase striatal volume by approximately 2.0 - 2.5 mm3 .
figure 4
plot of lod score and lr for each of the two trait . 
a . plot for striatal volume on chr. 10 .
peak value for the lr be around 30 cm .
b . plot for striatal neuron number on chr. 19 .
peak value for the lr be around 50 cm .
the chr 10 interval have an appreciable effect on brain size .
variance in brain weight minus that of the striatum be associate with an lr of 14.2 in the same location between d10mit106 and d10mit186 .
each b allele add 20 - 30 mg to total brain weight .
the chr 10 locus clearly have pleiotropic effect on the cns , but it effect on the striatum be more intense .
nonetheless , until we know more about the scope of effect , we have opt to give this chr 10 locus a generic name , brain size control 10a ( bsc10a ) .
the specific striatal component of the bsc10a be analyze by map the residual striatal value that correct for difference in brain volume .
the specific effect of a b allele be reduce from 2.5 mm3 to 0.5 - 1.0 mm3 , and the lr be reduce to 6.9 , a value which still have a point - wise probability of only 0.03 , indicate a significant independent effect .
we identify a second strong candidate interval on distal chr 19 that may modulate striatal neuron number .
the lr peak at 15.0 ( a lod of 3.26 ) at one of our more distal marker ( d19mit123 , 51 cm , p = .00055 ) .
in map neuron number we actually use the residual cell population a a trait , and we be therefore confident that this interval have a selective , although not necessarily exclusive , effect on number of neuron in striatum ( fig 4b ) .
each b allele increase the population by approximately 200,000 cell .
the aa genotype have an average residual population that be 116,000 less than the mean ( i.e. , a residual of - 116,000 ; n = 12 ) , the ab heterozygote have an average of - 8,000 neuron ( n = 18 ) , and the bb homozygote have an average of 290,000 neuron ( n = 6 ) .
correspond absolute number of striatal neuron for the three genotype be 1.8 , 1.9 , and 2.2 million .
the two - tailed genome - wide probability of this locus be at the threshold for declare a qtl ( p = 0.035 ± 0.01 two - tailed for an additive model and 0.08 ± 0.2 for a free model ) .
no other chromosomal interval have an lr score remotely as high a distal chr 19 .
the next high lr value be only 7.2 on chr 1 near d1mit65 and have a point - wise probability that be 50 time high than the chr 19 interval .
give these finding we have give the distal chromosome 19 interval the name striatal neuron number 19a ( stnn19a ) .
allelic difference in this interval account for up to 30 % of the total variance in striatal neuron number .
a the heritability of this trait be 0.64 , this trait can be say to account for over 80 % of the genetic variance .
residual neuron count have a high lr than the total neuron count ( lr of 15.0 vs. 11.9 ) .
this indicate that the chr 19 interval be likely to have selective effect on the striatum .
consistent with this hypothesis , the lr for brain weight on distal chr 19 be under 1.0 , and weight of all three genotype average 480 ± 5 mg .
linkage on chr 19 be not affect at all by remapping with control for the striatal volume locus on chr 10 .
thus , chr 10 and chr 19 interval do not interact or cooperate in control striatal volume or neuron number .
discussion
striatal volume correlate strongly to brain weight .
nonetheless , a significant fraction of the variation in both striatal volume and neuron number among inbred strain of mouse can not be predict on the basis of brain weight or volume .
this non-predictable variation be of particular interest to u because it be generate in large part by gene that have more intense or even selective effect on the dorsal striatum than other brain region .
we have succeed in map one qtl with somewhat more intense effect on the volume of the striatum than the rest of the brain to the proximal half of chromosome 10 .
we have also map a qtl with selective effect on number of neuron in the striatum to the distal end of chromosome 19 .
between - strain variability
variation in the size of cns region and cell population be already know to be substantial in the striatum and in many other region of the cns .
the number of striatal cholinergic neuron , for example , vary 50 % among 26 bxd ri line [ 32 ] .
interestingly , this variation appear to be unrelated to susceptibility to haloperidol - induced catalepsy .
the volume of the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus vary as much a 40 - 80 % among different inbred strain of mouse [ 33 - 35 ] .
more recent experiment use stereologic technique have report substantial variation in both neuron number and volume of the pyramidal and dentate cell layer of the hippocampus [ 36 ] .
granule cell number in nzb / binj and dba / 2 be 37 - 118 % great than c57bl / 6j mouse , and difference in volume be even large ( up to 150 % large in the dba / 2 a compare to the c57bl / 6j mouse ) .
there be also substantial among - strain variation in other structure in the nervous system include the nucleus of the solitary tract [ 37 ] , the spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus [ 38 ] , and retinal ganglion cell [ 39 , 40 ] .
take together , these result point to a high level of variability in neuron number in the cns of mouse .
base on these finding , we anticipate significant difference in the striatum of inbred strain .
we do find large strain difference in volume .
what be surprising be that in our set of five highly divergent strain the difference in volume be not match by significant difference in neuron number .
there be in fact a strong inverse relationship between striatal volume and neuron - pack density that lead to a remarkably stabile neuron number .
the variation in neuron - pack density with volume contrast somewhat with the report of abusaad and colleague [ 36 ] , who find no significant difference ( p = .06 ) in neuronal packing density in the dentate gyrus cell layer of the hippocampus among the three mouse strain that they examine , but do see a significant difference in the pyramidal cell layer .
a recent report demonstrate a 25 % range of granule cell packing density among 35 bxd recombinant inbred line [ 41 ] , a finding support the notion that packing density vary significantly among mouse strain .
these data suggest that principle that govern the relationship between neuronal volume and neuron - pack density may differ between the striatum and the other cns region .
the striatum may be a special case - a region in which number of medium spiny neuron be more tightly regulated than neuron population in some other region .
it could also be that measure specific neuronal subtypes would demonstrate a great amount of variance than we currently report [ 32 ] .
give the relatively small number of strain that we have sample , our hypothesis of low variation in striatal cell population require a more extensive test , a problem which we be now pursue use the large number of strain in the mouse brain library .
verification of qtl result
we have quantify the population of striatal neuron on both side of the brain in 77 case total .
this be a large sample from the perspective of stereological analysis of the mouse cns , but from the perspective of gene mapping and quantitative genetics this be , of course , a modest - sized sample size and one that will need to be treat a a starting point for more refined genetic analysis .
nonetheless , we have succeed in map one locus , bsc10a , which modulate striatal volume with a genome - wide significance of p < 0.05 .
we have also discover linkage on chr 19 to variation in the total number of striatal neuron .
these map data be concordant with our strain comparison and collectively suggest that there be apparently no significant genetic correlation between striatal volume and neuron number .
to confirm and refine our genetic dissection of the striatum we plan to analyze the axb and bxa recombinant inbred ( ri ) strain generate by cross a / j with c57bl / 6j .
this large ri set have already be process and regenotyped and be now part of the mouse brain library ( see and ) .
an analysis of ri strain can be quickly extend by generate f1 intercrosses between a / j and the subset of ri strain that have recombination in the qtl interval on chrs 10 and 19 .
isogenic set of ri - backcross progeny can be use to test specific model of gene action , for example , the dominance of the b allele at bsc10a .
a major goal of qtl mapping be to define locus that affect critical phenotype with sufficient precision to generate short list of candidate gene .
generate list of candidate for qtls will soon be greatly facilitate by more complete and good annotate mouse and human sequence database combine with information on gene expression profile of whole brain and striatum [ 42 ] .
once chromosomal position of the qtls have be determine to a precision of 1 - 3 cm , reduce the probability that a qtl actually represent a cluster of linked gene , it will become appropriate to assess strength of candidate use transgenic animal and by sequence comparison [ 43 ] .
interval mapping place the qtl for bsc10a in the central portion of chr 10 in proximity with a number of gene know to affect brain development .
one of these be grk2 , a member of the family of ionotropic glutamate receptor gene that be think to play a role in modulate huntington disease [ 44 ] .
in the mouse , member of this receptor type act to indirectly down - regulate synaptic activity in the striatum [ 45 ] .
another gene that fall into the bsc10a interval be mac , the gene encode the myristoylated alanine - rich c kinase substrate ( marcks protein ) .
this molecule be important in cerebral development .
marcks - deficient mouse have a high incidence of exencephaly , agenesis of the corpus callosum , and abnormality other forebrain structure include widespread neocortical ectopia [ 46 , 47 ] .
the marcks - relate protein gene be express in the striatum during early brain development in the rat [ 48 ] .
the location of the qtl modulate striatal neuron number to the distal part of chromosome 19 place it in proximity to a number of gene that have be recently be show to be important factor in telencephalic development , particularly vax1 .
vax1 be a homeobox - contain gene and be a close relative of the emx and not gene .
vax1 be localize during development to the anterior ventral forebrain , and be express in the striatum during embryogenesis [ 28 ] .
this molecule also have an important role in axon guidance : both the anterior portion of the corpus callosum and the optic chiasm be malformed or absent in vax1 knockout mouse [ 49 ] .
in addition , vax1 interact with several molecule include sonic hedgehog , pax2 , pax6 , and rx that be know to be important during development of the basal forebrain [ 27 , 50 ] .
brain volume and neuron number
it have previously be show that difference in brain weight be proportional to total brain dna content and consequently to total cns cell number [ 51 , 52 ] .
for this reason , brain weight have be suggest to be a good surrogate measure for total cell number in mouse , a in human [ 53 ] .
moreover , previous work have demonstrate a tight link between regional brain volume and neuron number [ 54 , 55 ] , which imply that volumetric measure reliably estimate neuron number .
with this literature in mind , we expect that our measure of striatal volume would predict neuron number in this nucleus .
with the inbred strain , however , we find that strain with small striata ( a / j ) have virtually the same number of neuron a those with large striata ( balb / cj ) .
this result indicate that at least for the striatum , volume be not a reliable indicator of neuron number , and that they may be two independent trait .
this conclusion be bolster at the genetic level by our report of two distinct qtls for these two morphologic phenotype .
take together with previous report [ 51 - 53 ] , we speculate that while total neuron number in the cerebrum may relate to total brain weight , the relationship of these two variable be flexible at the regional level .
material and method
subject
thirty - four of the 78 mouse that we analyze be common inbred strain that be select to sample a wide range of brain weight , and by expectation , striatal volume .
low brain weight strain include a / j ( n = 5 ) and dba / 2j ( n = 8 ) .
mid and high brain weight strain include c57bl / 6j ( n = 10 ) , balb / cj ( n = 5 ) , and bxd5 ( n = 6 , formally this recombinant inbred strain be know a bxd - 5 / ty ) .
one of the ten c57bl / 6j subject be remove from the analysis because value for striatal neuron number be anomalous with z score more than 2.5 .
to map qtls that modulate variation in cns size and cell population we use an f2 intercross between a strain with low brain weight ( a / j ) and a strain with high brain weight ( bxd5 ) .
a total of 518 of these abdf2 progeny be generate , but for this study we select a subset of 44 case , of which 36 be fully genotyped ( see below ) .
the sample include 20 animal in the low and high quartile , and 24 case within 0.5 sd of the mean brain weight .
we therefore measure subject represent the full range of brain weight ( see fig 2a ) .
the abdf2 intercross have be use previously to map qtls that modulate total brain weight [ 56 ] and cerebellar volume [ 57 ] .
the bxd5 strain use a the paternal strain in this intercross be a recombinant inbred strain that be derive by cross c57bl / 6j and dba / 2j line of mouse [ 58 ] .
a a result , abdf2 progeny be a mixture of three genome ( 50 % a / j , 25 % c57bl / 6j , and 25 % dba / 2j ) .
however , at any give locus there will be only two allele , a and b , or a and d .
all stock of mouse be obtain from the jackson laboratory .
abf2 mouse be generate at the university of tennessee by dr. richelle strom [ 56 ] use jackson laboratory foundation stock .
the f2 mouse range in age from 35 to 143 day .
the standard inbred strain range in age from 51 to 365 day .
we study approximately equal number of male and female .
histological preparation
all brain analyze in this study be part of the mouse brain library ( mbl ) .
the mbl be both a physical and internet resource .
high - resolution digital image of section from all case be available at .
mouse be anesthetize deeply with avertin ( 1.25 % 2 , 2 , 2 - tribromoethanol and 0.8 % tert-pentyl alcohol in water , 0.5 - 1.0 ml ip ) and perfuse through the left ventricle with 0.9 % sodium phosphate buffer ( pb ) saline ( ph 7.4 ) follow by 1.25 % glutaraldehyde / 1.0 % paraformaldehyde in 0.1 m pb ( ph 7.40 ) over a period of 2 to 4 min .
an additional 10 - ml of double - strength fixative ( 2.5 % glutaraldehyde / 2.0 % paraformaldehyde ) be inject for 1 to 2 min at an increase flow rate .
the head with brain be place a vial with the last fixative and store at 4°c until dissection .
follow dissection , the brain be weigh immediately .
brain be subsequently ship to beth israel deaconess medical center .
they be immerse in fresh 10 % formalin for at least one week before be embed in celloidin [ 59 ] .
brain be cut on a slide microtome at 30 μm in either horizontal or coronal plane .
free - float section be stain with cresylechtviolett and four series of every tenth section be mount on slide and coverslipped ( see for further detail ) .
histologic phenotype
total brain volume
to accurately estimate histological shrinkage for each brain in the sample , we determine the volume of the entire brain and take a ratio of this value to the original fixed brain weight .
brain volume be determine from serial section use point counting and cavalieri 's rule .
high - resolution ( 4.5 μm / pixel ) image of entire section be take from the mouse brain library , and point counting be perform on these image use nih image 1.55 and an apple macintosh computer .
if the criterion for use the cavalieri 's estimator be not meet ( due to miss or damaged section ) , a measurement method involve piecewise parabolic integration be employ [ 60 ] .
subsequent measurement of striatal volume and neuron packing density be correct for volumetric shrinkage .
the average shrinkage be 62.2 ± 0.4 % ( a mean residual volume of 37.8 % ) .
striatal volume
volume of the striatum be also determine from serial section analysis use point counting and cavalieri 's rule .
image from the section be capture at 12.5 x and be project onto a video monitor .
point counting be perform a above .
volume be compute separately for the right and left side and correct for shrinkage .
striatal neuron - packing density and neuron number
neuron be count use the 3 - dimensional counting software of williams and rakic [ 24 ] .
a series of six contiguous counting box ( each 40 x 65 x 20 μm ) align in a 3 x 2 matrix be place randomly within the striatum , and those neuron the nucleolus of which be in focus be count a describe previously [ 61 , 62 ] .
this large functional counting box ( 80 x 195 x 20 μm ) be choose to minimize sampling variance by ensure an equitable sampling of striatal patch and matrix .
two of these large field be count in each of the hemisphere .
neuron - pack density be compute a the number of cell / mm3 correct for shrinkage .
multiply the volume of the striatum by it cell - packing density permit estimation of the number of neuron in that nucleus .
reliability
we determine test - retest reliability by have an observer blindly re-measure striatal volume on a subset of 10 brain from the collection .
the observer not only re-measured the striatal volume from the same series of section a the original measure , but also estimate volume from a second series of 1 in 10 section offset by 5 section from the previous series .
the correlation among the three estimation range from .95 to .99 ( p < .05 ) , indicate a high degree of reliability for this dependent variable .
we assess reliability of our estimate of neuronal number by have an observer blindly re-estimate neuron number in the same 10 brain above .
the intra-observer correlation for this measure be .81 ( p < .05 ) , which be similar to the reliability see in previous estimate of neuron number [ 39 , 40 ] .
genotyping and qtl mapping
genomic dna be extract from spleen of f2 animal use a high - salt procedure [ 63 ] .
a set of 82 microsatellite locus distribute across all autosome and the x chromosome be type in a set of abdf2 animal use a standard pcr protocol [ 64 , 65 ] a detail in zhou and williams [ 66 ] .
f2 genotype be enter into a spreadsheet program and transfer to map manager qtb28 for mapping and permutation analysis [ 67 ] .
map manager implement both simple and composite interval mapping method describe by haley and knott [ 68 ] .
two - tailed genome - wide significance level be estimate by compare the high likelihood ratio statistic ( lr ) of correctly order data set with lr compute for 10,000 permutation of those same data set [ 69 ] .
lr score can be convert to lod score by divide by 4.6 .
the 2 - lod support interval of linkage be estimate directly from interval map .
the approximate 95 % support interval be estimate by application of equation in darvasi and soller [ 70 ] .
with a modest sample size such a we have be able to examine use unbiased stereological method , even a qtl responsible for 30 to 50 % of the variance . be associate with a 95 % interval of 20 to 30 cm .
regression analysis of trait value
the unadjusted striatal estimate vary to a large extent a a result of variation in total brain weight .
however , one of our goal in this study be to map qtls with relatively intense effect on the striatum .
for this reason we also have correct all of the parameter use in the mapping analysis for variation in brain weight use linear regression analysis .
we have map data with and without compensation for variance in brain weight .
the correct value be refer to a residual .
analysis
all data be analyze use regression , correlation , and anova statistical test ( see stranatdata.xls for original data use to perform this analysis ) .
a bonferroni / dunn correction be use for post hoc examination of significant main effect in the anova .
this post-hoc test be functionally identical to a fisher plsd , but the alpha level be more conservative ( .005 ) .
supplementary material
stranatdata.xls
this file contain anatomic data for each of the subject use in the current experiment .
click here to download stranatdata.xls
strmap.qtx
this file contain the genotyping data from the 82 marker use in the current experiment , in mapmanager qtx format .
click here to download strmap.qtx
acknowledgement
this work be support , in part , by grant hd20806 and ns35485 from the public health service of the usa .
the author wish to thank dr. jing gu , aaron levine , anna ohlis , and stefany palmieri for technical assistance .
we thank richelle strom for generate the f2 intercross mouse .
a chemoattractant role for nt - 3 in proprioceptive axon guidance
abstract
neurotrophin - 3 ( nt - 3 ) be require for proprioceptive neuron survival .
deletion of the proapoptotic gene bax in nt - 3 knockout mouse rescue these neuron and allow for examination of their axon growth in the absence of nt - 3 signaling .
trkc - positive peripheral and central axon from dorsal root ganglion follow proper trajectory and arrive in close proximity to their target but fail to innervate them .
peripherally , muscle spindle be absent and trkc - positive axon do not enter their target muscle .
centrally , proprioceptive axon branch in ectopic region of the spinal cord , even cross the midline .
in vitro assay reveal chemoattractant effect of nt - 3 on dorsal root ganglion axon .
our result show that survival factor nt - 3 act a a short - distance axon guidance molecule for muscle sensory afferent a they approach their proper target .
introduction
neurotrophin - 3 ( nt - 3 ) be a key requirement for the development of proprioceptive input to motor neuron ( chen and frank 1999 ; chen et al. 2003 ) .
mouse deficient in nt - 3 , it tyrosine kinase receptor , trkc , or in trkc - positive neuron - specific transcription factor runx3 display severe ataxia associate with the absence of muscle spindle , and loss of proprioceptive neuron in dorsal root ganglion ( drgs ) or their axon ( ernfors et al. 1994 ; klein et al. 1994 ; tessarollo et al. 1994 ; fariñas et al. 1996 ; liebl et al. 1997 ; inoue et al. 2002 ; levanon et al. 2002 ) .
nt - 3 be express in the ventral spinal cord , in the develop limb bud , and in intrafusal bag fiber of muscle spindle later in development ( copray and brouwer 1994 ; fariñas et al. 1996 ; tojo et al. 1996 ) .
when sensory axon contact develop myotubes , they induce muscle spindle differentiation , form ring - like spiral nerve ending around them .
in the chicken embryo , limb ablation or anti-nt - 3 antibody injection into limb bud lead to elimination of trkc - positive neuron and decrease innervation of motor neuron ( oakley et al. 1995 , 1997 ) .
be nt - 3 only a chemotrophic survival factor for muscle sensory afferent , or do it have additional role in the development of the proprioceptor and the establishment of the monosynaptic reflex arc ?
here we provide evidence that nt - 3 act a a chemoattractant for sensory axon during the final phase of their target - direct pathfinding .
result
trkc - positive drg neuron be rescue in bax / nt - 3 double knockout mouse
mouse lack proapoptotic protein bax allow for distinguish survival effect of neurotrophins from other effect .
bax - deficient sensory neuron no longer require neurotrophins for survival ( white et al. 1998 ; patel et al. 2000 ) , thus they can be use to examine axonal effect .
we breed nt - 3 heterozygote and bax knockout ( ko ) mouse to obtain mouse with double ko of both nt - 3 and bax gene , and examine proprioceptive axonal projection .
all nt - 3 and double ko die within 48 h after birth ( tessarollo et al. 1994 ) .
we perform trka / trkc double immunohistochemistry ( huang et al. 1999 ) , enable detection of both protein in the same sample .
trkc - positive cell ( figure 1a ) and fiber ( figure 1e ) be absent in nt - 3 ko at embryonic day ( e ) 15 .
two subset of drg cell express either trka or trkc be detect in double ko , similar to wild - type ( wt ) or bax ko animal .
surprisingly , at postnatal day ( p ) 0 , a few cell express trkc even in nt - 3 ko animal in the bax + / + genetic background , and some cell co-expressed trka and trkc , regardless of the genotype ( figure 1b ) .
in order to quantify our result , we analyze the ratio of trka and trkc immunopositive cell from four different drgs of animal of different genotype .
at all age study , bax / nt - 3 double null drgs have trka / trkc ratio similar to those of bax null drgs , and high than those of nt - 3 null drgs ( figure 1d ) .
trkc - positive neuron rescue by bax deletion , however , fail to differentiate properly , a evidence by the lack of expression of the proprioceptive molecular marker parvalbumin ( pv ) ( figure 1c ) .
nt - 3 be necessary for proper innervation of motor neuron
trka / trkc - positive fiber in the spinal cord could be detect at e15 ( figure 1e ) .
trka - positive fiber be restrict to and terminate in the dorsolateral spinal cord , whereas trkc - positive fiber enter the cord dorsomedially , and descend into the ventral horn in wt ( ozaki and snider 1997 ) and bax ko embryo .
there be no detectable trkc expression in nt - 3 ko spinal cord , indicate complete absence of proprioceptive fiber .
in double ko spinal cord , trkc - positive fiber enter the dorsal spinal cord and descend medially in a manner similar to that see in wt or bax ko case .
however , it be not possible to follow trkc immunolabeled fiber all the way to their terminal zone in any of the case .
next we examine the central projection of drg axon with the lipophilic tracer dii at p0 .
in wt and bax ko pup , proprioceptive afferent enter the dorsal spinal cord and follow a medial course towards the ventral horn .
they then turn laterally towards motor neuron in the lateral motor column , where they branch and terminate ( figure 2a ) .
dii labeling be confine to dorsal spinal cord in nt - 3 ko ( figure 2a ) , a report earlier , consistent with a complete absence of proprioceptive innervation ( ernfors et al. 1994 ; tessarollo et al. 1994 ) .
in double ko , proprioceptive afferent initially follow a trajectory similar to that of wt counterpart , but most of them fail to project all the way to the ventral cord and into the lateral motor column .
instead , they arborize near the ventral midline ; some cross the midline and extend into the contralateral ventral cord ( figure 2a and 2c ) .
in order to distinguish between a role for nt - 3 in initiation of motor neuron innervation and a role for maintenance , we repeat the dii labeling at e17 .
innervation pattern of e17 spinal cord ( figure 3 ) be similar to those at p0 ( figure 2 ) .
dorsal horn of all genotype be fill with dii - label fiber correspond to nerve growth factor – dependent nociceptive axon .
in wt and bax ko embryo , proprioceptive fiber extend towards ventral horn motor neuron ( figure 3a and 3b ) , whereas the ventral horn of the nt - 3 ko embryo be devoid of innervation ( figure 3c ) .
in the bax / nt - 3 double ko , dii - label fiber enter the ventral spinal cord , but extend towards the midline instead of the ventral horn ( figure 3d ) , in a pattern similar to that observe at p0 .
our data point to a complete absence of proprioceptive innervation of the ventral horn of the bax / nt - 3 null spinal cord throughout the developmental stage investigate .
a the sensory axon never reach motor neuron dendrite in the ventral horn ( figure s1 ) , the stretch reflex arc circuit be not establish .
the failure to initiate contact between sensory axon and motor neuron in the absence of nt - 3 suggest a requirement for nt - 3 for proper axon target in addition to a role in sensory axon maintenance .
nt - 3 be require for proper peripheral innervation
in order to study peripheral innervation in double ko animal , we investigate spindle development in the gastrocnemius muscle .
muscle spindle could be identify easily in p0 wt and bax ko animal by their characteristic morphology ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
proprioceptive fiber label with neurofilament - m ( nf - m ) antibody form ring - like spiral ending wrap around intrafusal bag fiber label with s46 antibody , specific for slow developmental myosin heavy chain protein ( miller et al. 1985 ) .
a report earlier , there be no muscle spindle in nt - 3 ko animal ( ernfors et al. 1994 ) .
on the other hand , bax ko animal have more spindle than wt , and spindle be in cluster similar to animal over-expressing nt - 3 in the muscle ( wright et al. 1997 ) .
although nt - 3 - dependent cell be rescue , no muscle spindle be detect in the limb of double ko ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
muscle spindle could be observe with trkc antibody in wt and bax ko animal , but not in nt - 3 or double ko ( figure 4e ) .
in both nt - 3 and double ko animal , nf - m - label fiber could be detect in muscle , thus the muscle of these animal be not completely devoid of nerve fiber .
since there be no trkc - positive fiber in these muscle , we think that these nf - m - label fiber correspond to motor axon .
absence of muscle spindle might be due to a failure in initiation of differentiation by proprioceptive axon , or a failure of maturation and maintenance in the absence of nt - 3 .
to distinguish between these two possibility , we investigate muscle spindle development at e15 and e17 with s46 / nf - m immunostaining as well a dii labeling .
no structure with the characteristic muscle spindle shape could be detect in any of the genotype at e15 ( figure s2 ) .
however , numerous develop spindle could be identify at e17 in wt and bax ko , but not in nt - 3 ko embryo ( figure 4c ) .
bax / nt - 3 double null muscle be devoid of spindle ( figure 4c ) , except for one spindle - like structure observe in one leg of an embryo ( figure 4c , inset , denote by the asterisk ) .
dii labeling through the drgs at e17 yield similar result , with muscle spindle identify in parallel section in wt and bax null muscle ( figure 4d ) , but not in nt - 3 or double ko animal .
although dii - label fiber could be detect in double null muscle , they never form ring - like structure characteristic of muscle spindle .
we also examine trka / trkc expression at p0 in the tibial nerve , which carry sensory fiber to the gastrocnemius muscle as well a the skin of the low leg .
in nt - 3 ko , trka - positive axon could be see in the tibial nerve but there be no trkc - positive axon ; in contrast , trka - and trkc - label axon be both present in wt , bax ko , and double ko animal ( figure 4f ) .
these result suggest that although proprioceptive axon follow proper trajectory in distal peripheral nerve , they fail to innervate their target muscle in the absence of nt - 3 .
nt - 3 be a chemoattractant for drg axon in vitro
to test the hypothesis that nt - 3 act a a chemoattractant for sensory axon , we perform a series of in vitro assay .
proprioceptive axon in mouse enter the gray matter in the spinal cord and advance ventrally parallel to the midline by e13 and reach the motor neuron by e15 ( ozaki and snider 1994 ) .
we co-cultured collagen - embed e13 wt drg explants with nt - 3 - soak sepharose bead ( n = 26 ) .
control culture be set up use bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) – or phosphate buffer saline ( pb ) – soak bead ( n = 12 ) .
drg axon begin extend towards the localized nt - 3 source by the end of the first day and consistently display a strong chemoattraction by 3 d in vitro , whereas they do not show such preference for bsa - load control bead ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
this attraction be not due to survival support of nt - 3 because bax null ganglion display the same chemoattraction ( figure 5c ; n = 16 ) .
nt - 3 may act through either trkc , or the p75ntr .
we repeat the co-culture experiment with drg explants derive from p75ntr ko mouse ( n = 18 ) .
axon of these ganglion also show strong chemoattraction towards the nt - 3 bead ( figure 5d ) .
finally , we use diffusible trkc receptor conjugate to igg constant region ( trkc - fc ) add to the medium ( n = 6 ) to deplete soluble nt - 3 from the collagen gel ( figure 5e ) .
in the presence of trkc - fc the chemoattraction be completely block , demonstrate that the effect we see be specific for nt - 3 .
in order to investigate the active range of our bead , we have repeat the culture with wt e13 drgs by place the bead at increase distance from the ganglion ( n = 4 each ) ( figure 5f ) .
there be still preferred growth towards the bead at 1,200 μm , the long distance study , although the number of axon and the extent of growth be not as robust .
next , we set up e13 drg spinal cord explant culture use nt - 3 - load bead place at the midline at mid-spinal cord level a an ectopic nt - 3 source ( n = 15 ) .
control culture be set use pb - load bead ( n = 6 ) .
dii labeling through the drgs reveal numerous fiber enter the spinal cord at ectopic region and grow towards the nt - 3 bead ( figure 6a ) , surround the bead and form bundle around them ( figure 6c – 6e ) .
in control culture , all label fiber be direct towards the dorsal spinal cord and terminate there , where they normally enter the gray matter at e13 ( figure 6b ) .
no axon be observe around the pb - load control bead ( figure 6f ) .
axon that normally enter the gray matter through dorsal spinal cord grow towards the midline when present with a localized nt - 3 source , and new axon growth towards the nt - 3 bead be initiate from drgs , enter the spinal cord at ectopic locus at lateral mid-spinal cord ( figure 6g ) .
nt - 3 be therefore capable of act a a chemoattractant for drg axon .
discussion
relatively few study have implicate nt - 3 a a chemoattractant agent for sensory and motor axon .
previously note chemoattractant action of the embryonic mouse maxillary process on trigeminal ganglion neuron ( lumsden and davy 1986 ) be now attribute to nt - 3 and brain - derive neurotrophic factor ( bdnf ) ( o'connor et al. 1999 ) .
recently , tucker et al. ( 2001 ) show that developing sensory and motor axon in limb slice culture preferentially grow towards neurotrophin - soak bead instead of follow their normal trajectory .
conversely , bead soak with neurotrophin function - block antibody lead to reduction of sensory and motor axon growth towards the limb .
in transgenic mouse , which over-express nt - 3 under the nestin promoter in the central nervous system , the course of the proprioceptive afferent be alter and direct towards the region with high level of ectopic nt - 3 expression in the spinal cord ( ringstedt et al. 1997 ) .
ringstedt et al. consider the possibility that nt - 3 may play a chemoattractant role during the innervation of ventral horn by proprioceptive afferent .
however , early finding of normal proprioceptive afferent trajectory in chicken embryo despite injection of function - block nt - 3 antibody into the spinal cord ( oakley et al. 1995 ) lead them to discount this possibility .
in that study , though , assay on the effectiveness of antibody perturbation on nt - 3 - dependent cell survival show that effectiveness be significant ( approximately 90 % ) but not complete ( oakley et al. 1995 ) .
ringstedt et al. ( 1997 ) argue that while central sensory axon may still navigate properly in the absence of nt - 3 , ectopic expression of nt - 3 disrupt their targeting .
recently , another member of the neurotrophin family , bdnf , have be suggest to act a a chemoattractant for sensory axon innervate ear ( tessarollo et al. 2004 ) .
in a gene replacement strategy in which bdnf expression be drive by the nt - 3 promoter , vestibular axon rerouted towards ectopic source of bdnf in the cochlea that normally express nt - 3 and be not innervate by these axon .
ectopic nt - 3 supply use osmotic pump and adenovirus - mediate expression induce sensory axon growth during regeneration ( zhang et al. 1998 , bradbury et al. 1999 , oudega et al. 1999 , ramer et al. 2002 ) , and induce axonal plasticity of corticospinal axon in injure adult spinal cord ( zhou et al. 2003 ) , where the sprout axon from the intact site cross the midline towards the nt - 3 source on the lesion side of the spinal cord .
our present result be in agreement with these observation , and provide further evidence that nt - 3 act a a chemoattractant for sensory afferent .
previously , normal motor neuron innervation be rescue in nt - 3 ko animal by over-expressing nt - 3 selectively in their muscle ( wright et al. 1997 ) .
it appear that peripheral nt - 3 alone be sufficient for rescue proprioceptive neuron in nt - 3 ko animal and proper axonal pathfinding in the spinal cord .
however , it be unclear whether nt - 3 be absent from the ventral spinal cord of these animal .
the possibility have be raise that motor neuron may retrogradely transport nt - 3 in muscle to the spinal cord ( chen and frank 1999 ) .
assay to determine whether any nt - 3 be present in the ventral horn of these mouse would be informative .
recently , patel et al. ( 2003 ) report their observation on bax / nt - 3 double ko mouse they breed .
their result be significantly different from ours .
they see no proprioceptive afferent in the periphery of the double knockout and note that central proprioceptive afferent terminate in the intermediate spinal cord without extend ventrally .
their observation be base on pv immunostaining and dii labeling of the peripheral nerve .
we note that pv immunolabeling be diminished in our bax / nt - 3 double ko .
in various manipulation of the neurotrophins it have be note that molecular marker for proprioceptive axon such a pv or calcitonin gene - relate peptide for nerve growth factor – responsive axon be compromised ( ringstedt et al. 1997 ; patel et al. 2000 ) , thus pv immunostaining in bax / nt - 3 double ko can not reveal the extent of proprioceptive axon in the periphery .
seventy - three percent of retrogradely label gastrocnemius muscle afferent be report to be express trkc rna in the adult rat drg , although some of these ( about 10 % ) may represent cutaneous innervation ( mcmahon et al. 1994 ) .
presently , it be not clear whether trkc protein be also make by cutaneous afferent and if so at what stage in development this receptor be express by cutaneous axon .
base on the available evidence show that all proprioceptive neuron be eliminate in nt - 3 or trkc null mouse , we think that trkc staining in the tibial nerve mostly represent proprioceptive axon in the vicinity of their peripheral target .
altogether , our finding suggest a role for nt - 3 in initiation of muscle innervation and spindle differentiation by the proprioceptive axon .
patel et al. ( 2003 ) examine dii - label central drg axon in the spinal cord of three e17 and two p0 case , and report that central proprioceptive axon stop in the intermediate lamina , never enter the ventral cord .
we have examine nine bax / nt - 3 double ko case , and often incomplete dii labeling give the impression that there be no axon reach the ventral spinal cord .
we have also see case similar to theirs ( n = 4 ) , but at high magnification these axon do not have terminal boutons and be not completely label .
however , with complete fill ( n = 5 ) , it be possible to trace these axon into the ventral midline and across to the contralateral side , and visualize terminal boutons at their tip ( see figure 3c ) .
previously , arber et al. ( 2000 ) report that member of the ets family of transcription factor , er81 and pea3 , be express by drg neuron as well a motor neuron and their target muscle fiber .
they find that in the spinal cord of er81 ko mouse , ventral projection of proprioceptive axon be mostly absent , and very few axon make it to the ventral cord .
patel et al. ( 2003 ) note that the phenotype they observe in their bax / nt - 3 double ko mouse be quite similar to that of er81 ko mouse .
they provide evidence that nt - 3 induce er81 expression in drg explants in vitro .
patel et al. ( 2003 ) report that er81 mrna expression be diminish ( but not abolish ) in both nt - 3 ko and bax / nt - 3 double ko mouse , while their immunohistochemistry show much less protein expression in the double ko mouse .
it be highly possible that a small but considerable number of drg cell express the transcription factor er81 and that their axon grow beyond the intermediate level of the spinal cord in bax / nt - 3 double ko mouse .
while the phenotype of er81 ko mouse be quite dramatic , and most proprioceptive axon stop within the intermediate spinal cord , it be important to note that a few axon still find their way to the ventral spinal cord and target properly to the motor neuron ( arber et al. 2000 ) .
patel et al. ( 2003 ) also present observation from islet2dta mouse , which lack a significant portion of the motor neuron in the ventral cord .
in these mouse pv immunostaining show axon in the ventral horn .
patel et al. argue that since motor neuron be absent in these mouse , nt - 3 secrete by them could not be a signal for proprioceptive axon to enter the lateral motor column .
however , there be no evidence show that nt - 3 mrna or protein express in the ventral spinal cord be exclusively from motor neuron , and there be no available data indicate that in islet2dta mouse , nt - 3 expression in the ventral spinal cord be abolish ( yang et al. 2001 ; pun et al. 2002 ) .
study in embryonic mouse report nt - 3 mrna in the ventral horn of the spinal cord , but it be not definitive that both mrna and protein be express solely by motor neuron .
in the adult spinal cord , while motor neuron express high level of nt - 3 , other cell , include glia , also express it ( zhou and rush 1994 ; dreyfus et al. 1999 ; buck et al. 2000 ) .
our present result , along with those from transgenic mouse with nt - 3 over-expression in ectopic region of the spinal cord ( ringstedt et al. 1997 ) , argue for a role of nt - 3 in chemoattractant axon guidance of proprioceptive axon in the spinal cord .
finally , in culture assay , we see a strong chemoattraction of drg neuron to localized source of nt - 3 .
this response be see in wt , bax null and in p75 null drg explants , and in the absence of any other neurotrophins or target - derive axon guidance molecule .
furthermore , in vitro , sensory axon response to nt - 3 do not appear to be dose - dependent ( ringstedt et al. 1997 ; tucker et al. 2001 ) .
nt - 3 be capable of attract axon along distance of up to 1 mm in collagen gel matrix , cover the physiological range it need to attract axon during development .
previous study with exogenous or local application of nt - 3 to developing primary sensory axon have indicate that this neurotrophin can attract and induce axonal branching ( ulupınar et al. 2000 ; özdinler and erzurumlu 2001 , özdinler et al. 2004 ) .
along the monosynaptic stretch reflex pathway , only wnt - 3 have be implicate a an axon arborization factor in the spinal cord ( krylova et al. 2002 ) .
another molecule , slit2 , express in the midline and by motor neuron ( wang et al. 1999 ) be capable of induce axonal branching ( nguyen ba - charvet et al. 2001 ; özdinler and erzurumlu 2002 ) .
drg neuron express robo receptor , which bind to slit , and proprioceptive axon be therefore capable of respond to slit signal ( wang et al. 1999 ) .
slit2 do not cause repulsion of nt - 3 - responsive drg axon in vitro ( nguyen ba - charvet et al. 2001 ) , but cause ectopic branching and arborization of trigeminal axon in the brainstem ( özdinler and erzurumlu 2002 ) .
thus , slit2 might also be involve in terminal branching of propioceptive axon in the ventral cord and in the midline branching observe in our double ko .
lack of pv expression in bax / nt - 3 ko mouse suggest that pv expression might be responsible for proper axon targeting and muscle spindle differentiation .
presently we can not completely rule out this possibility .
however , no defect in axon pathfinding along the monosynaptic reflex arc or in muscle spindle differentiation have be note in pv ko mouse , which develop normally and show no apparent change in their behavior or physical activity ( schwaller et al. 1999 ) .
these observation suggest that axonal target defect in bax / nt - 3 double ko mouse can not be simply due to lack of pv expression in proprioceptive cell .
our present result suggest that nt - 3 act a a short - range axon guidance cue for proprioceptive axon centrally and peripherally , a they navigate to their target use other axon guidance cue .
in it absence , these axon terminate in inappropriate locus .
however , nt - 3 may not be the only molecule that play a role in target and terminal branching of sensory axon in the ventral spinal cord .
nt - 3 most likely act cooperatively with other axon guidance molecule or by regulate expression of yet to be identify proprioceptive neuron - specific receptor / ligand for numerous axon guidance cue .
material and method
generation of double ko .
we cross bax ko female on a c57bl / 6 background ( jackson laboratory , bar harbor , maine , united state ) to nt - 3 heterozygote male on a 129 sv background to generate double heterozygote animal .
progeny be genotyped with pcr , and animal heterozygous for both gene be breed to obtain the double ko .
primer use for the bax locus be r661 , gtt gac cag agt ggc gta gg ; r662 , ccg ctt cca ttg ctc agc gg ; and r663 , gag ctg atc aga acc atc atg .
primer use for the nt - 3 locus be nt3a , cgt ggt gag gtt cta ttg gct ac ; nt3b , cag agc acc ctg ccc aaa gca gag ; nt3r , cct tga caa tac tga atg cc ; and neof , ggg aac ttc ctg act agg .
wt , bax ko , and nt - 3 ko littermates be use a control .
a total of 11 bax / nt - 3 double ko mouse be analyze , of these nine be p0 pup .
the p75 colony on a 129 s1 background be receive from jackson laboratory .
we use tail dna to genotype animal use the primer imr0013 , ctt ggg tgg aga ggc tat tc ; imr0014 , agg tga gat gac agg aga tc ( generic neo primer ) ; imr0710 , tgt tac gtt ctc tga cgt ggt gag ; and imr0711 , tca gcc cag ggt gtg cac tc ( p75 locus ) .
for embryonic experiment , day of plug positivity be consider e0 .
all of the protocol use in this study be approve by the louisiana state university health science center institutional animal care and use committee and conform to the national institute of health guideline for use of experimental animal .
trka / trkc immunohistochemistry .
frozen spinal cord section ( 10 μm thick ) be block and incubate in a cocktail of rabbit anti-trka and goat anti-trkc antibody ( gift of dr. reichardt ; huang et al. 1999 ) , follow by a cocktail of cy3 conjugate donkey anti-rabbit and fitc conjugate donkey anti-goat antibody ( chemicon , temecula , california , united state ) in the presence of 0.3 % tritonx - 100 and 10 % normal donkey serum .
for pv immunohistochemistry , section be react with monoclonal mouse anti-pv antibody ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) , and develop by vector fluorescein mouse on mouse kit ( vector laboratory , burlingame , california , united state ) .
for quantification purpose , trka - and trkc - label cell from four different drgs of each genotype and age study be count , and ratio plot .
muscle spindle detection .
gastrocnemius muscle be dissect out in p0 pup and section longitudinally , or , in some case , the whole leg at the level of gastrocnemius muscle with tibial nerve be section in cross section .
section be incubate with monoclonal s46 antibody ( gift of dr. stockdale ) reactive to the spindle - specific slow - tonic myosin heavy chain isoform and develop by vector mouse on mouse kit a describe above , follow by rabbit anti-nf - m antibody ( chemicon ) and cy3 conjugate goat anti-rabbit antibody ( chemicon ) in a sequential double - labeling protocol .
in another method , dii crystal be place in drgs of e17 embryo from different genotype ( n = 2 ) , and the gastrocnemius muscle be isolate and section into 40 - μm - thick slice on a vibratome .
dii labeling .
spinal cord be dissect out with the drgs attach , motor root be cut to prevent backfilling of motor neuron , and crystal of 1 , 1 ′ - dioctadecyl - 3 , 3 , 3 ′ , 3 ′ - tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate ( dii ; molecular probe , eugene , oregon , united state ) be insert in drgs .
label spinal cord be incubate at 37 °c for 8 d and section on a vibrotome at 100 μm .
section be observe under the fluorescent microscope and photograph , and image be transfer to adobe photoshop , invert , and adjust for brightness and contrast .
photoconverted in 0.15 % dab ( 3 , 3 ′ - diaminobenzidine ; sigma ) in 0.1 m tris buffer ( ph 8.2 ) .
in vitro co-culture assay .
drg explants be derive from swiss webster , bax null , and p75 null mouse embryo ( e13 ) .
for collagen matrix assay , drgs be dissect out under a stereomicroscope use tungsten needle .
collagen matrix be prepare with 430 μl of collagen ( 3 mg / ml dissolve in 0.1 m acetic acid , sigma ) , 50 μl of 10 x dmem medium , and 2.5 μl of 0.8 m naca2 , and the ph be adjust to 7.5 .
individual ganglion explants be place in 24 - well plate and cover with freshly prepare collagen .
sepharose bead with an average diameter of 150 μm be use .
bead be wash twice with pb , air dry , and load with 10 , 20 , 50 , or 100 ng / μl nt - 3 ( collaborative research , chemicon ) at 4 °c overnight with constant shaking .
for negative control , bead be load with bsa ( 10 – 100 ng / μl ) or pb .
either a single neurotrophin - load bead or a single bsa ( or pb ) – load bead be implant about 200 – 1,200 μm away from the ganglion explant .
collagen - embed culture be then place at 33 °c for 15 min for the matrix to harden .
serum - free culture medium be then add to each well .
in culture with wt drg and control bead , 10 % serum be add to ensure viability of the explants .
trkc - fc ( regeneron pharmaceutical , tarrytown , new york , united state ) be add ( 20 μg / ml ) into the culture medium .
explant co-cultures
spinal cord with attach drgs be dissect out from swiss webster mouse embryo at e13 , and section into 300 - μm - thick slice .
tissue slice be place on millicell tissue culture insert ( millipore , billrica , massachusetts , united state ) .
nt - 3 - load ( n = 15 ) or pb - load ( n = 6 ) sepharose bead be prepare a describe above , and place in the midline at mid-spinal cord level .
insert be place in six - well plate with serum - free medium at the bottom of the well , and keep at 33 °c for 3 d in the presence of 5 % co2 .
culture be then fix with 4 % paraformaldehyde in pb , and small crystal of dii be place into the drgs .
sample be incubate in a 37 - °c incubator , allow the dye to diffuse , and photograph under a nikon ( tokyo , japan ) inverted epifluoresence microscope .
supporting information
figure s1
motor neuron innervation initiate in wt e17 embryo can not be detect in bax / nt - 3 double ko
in some of the sample , motor neuron be label by backfilling through the ventral root in addition to the sensory axon label through the drgs .
( a ) wt embryo show proprioceptive axon contact motor neuron dendrite in the ventral horn , form synapsis .
( b ) bax / nt - 3 double null spinal cord .
although label fiber enter the ventral spinal cord , they extend towards the midline instead of the ventral horn and never contact the motor neuron dendrite .
( c ) high - power image of the inset in ( a ) .
arrow point to the proprioceptive fiber contact motor neuron ( asterisk ) .
( d ) high - power image of the inset in ( b ) .
notice that there be no sensory axon contact label motor neuron ( asterisk ) .
scale bar : 100 μm ( a and b ) , 50 μm ( c and d ) .
( 24 mb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
s46 / nf - m immunohistochemistry at e15 gastrocnemius muscle
although numerous muscle and nerve fiber be label , no muscle spindle could be identify because the characteristic morphology of sensory nerve ending wrap around muscle bag fiber have not begin to develop in any of the genotype yet .
scale bar : 25 μm .
( 13 mb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank l. tessarollo for provide nt - 3 ko animal , l. reichardt for trka and trkc antibody , f. stockdale for the s46 antibody , k. muneoka for sepharose bead , and b. king for maintenance of animal use in this study .
we particularly thank e. frank for many helpful comment and discussion about this study and for share unpublished data from his laboratory .
support by national institute of health / national institute of dental and craniofacial research grant p01 de07734 .
abbreviation
bdnf - brain - derive neurotrophic factor
bsa - bovine serum albumin
drg - dorsal root ganglion
e - embryonic day
ko - knockout
nf - m - neurofilament - m
nt - 3 - neurotrophin - 3
p - postnatal day
pb - phosphate buffer saline
pv - parvalbumin
trkc - fc - diffusible trkc receptor conjugate to igg constant region
wt - wild - type
figure and table
figure 1
trka / trkc and pv immunohistochemistry in drg and spinal cord
red represent trka , green represent trkc ( and pv in [ c ] ) , and yellow represent co-expression .
( a ) trka / trkc immunostaining in e15 drg .
trkc - positive neuron normally eliminate in nt - 3 ko be rescue in double ko .
( b ) trka / trkc immunostaining at p0 in drg .
( c ) pv immunostaining in p0 drg .
rescue trkc - positive cell fail to express pv .
( d ) ratio of trka - immunopositive cell to trkc - immunopositive cell in e15 and p0 drgs .
data be present a percentage of cell with standard deviation .
double ko always have similar ratio to bax ko , and nt - 3 ko have the least amount of trkc - positive cell , if any .
( e ) trka / trkc immunostaining in e15 spinal cord .
arrow point to group ia fiber .
dorsal be up .
scale bar : 50 μm ( a – c ) , 1 mm ( e ) .
figure 2
axonal projection in the spinal cord after dii labeling of drg at p0
( a ) rescue drg proprioceptive neuron fail to properly innervate motor neuron in double ko .
instead , some axon be direct towards the ventral midline ; they cross the midline and branch .
( b ) schematic drawing of the monosynaptic reflex arc a it normally develop .
small black dot represent nt - 3 release centrally by the motor neuron and peripherally by the muscle spindle .
( c ) high - power magnification of the inset in ( a ) .
arrow point to the midline , and arrowhead point to synaptic bouton - like structure .
scale bar : 1 mm ( a ) , 400 μm ( c ) .
figure 3
sensory axon label with dii through the drg at e17
( a ) dii - label fiber in wt spinal cord .
notice proprioceptive axon extend towards the motor neuron locate in the ventral horn of the spinal cord in cross section .
( b ) bax null spinal cord .
( c ) nt - 3 null spinal cord .
stain fiber be restrict to the nociceptive axon in the dorsal horn , a evidence by the complete absence of labeling in the ventral spinal cord .
( d ) bax / nt - 3 double null spinal cord .
although fiber extend into the ventral spinal cord , they never grow towards the motor neuron , but be direct towards the midline instead .
scale bar : 100 μm .
figure 4
muscle spindle in gastrocnemius muscle and trka / trkc staining in the tibial nerve at p0
( a ) nf - m ( red ) and s46 ( green ) immunostaining in cross section of gastrocnemius muscle at p0 .
there be no muscle spindle detect in double ko .
( b ) nf - m ( red ) and s46 ( green ) immunostaining in parallel section of gastrocnemius muscle at p0 .
( c ) nf - m ( red ) and s46 ( green ) immunostaining in parallel section of gastrocnemius muscle at e17 .
double null muscle be mostly devoid of muscle spindle , except for one spindle - like structure detect ( show in inset , denote by the asterisk ) .
( d ) muscle spindle detect by dii label through the drg .
gastrocnemius muscle be section at 40 μm thickness in parallel plane to the muscle fiber .
( e ) muscle spindle detect by trkc staining in cross section of gastrocnemius muscle at p0 .
( f ) trka ( red ) and trkc ( green ) immunostaining in the tibial nerve cross section at p0 .
trkc - positive fiber be miss in nt - 3 ko .
red - green overlap ( yellow ) be due to the thickness of the section and overlapping of red - and green - label ( trka and trkc ) fiber present at different focal depth , rather than co-localization .
arrow indicate muscle spindle .
scale bar : 50 μm ( a , b , d ) , 25 μm ( c , e ) , 75 μm ( f ) .
figure 5
chemoattraction of e13 drg axon to local nt - 3 observe by in vitro co-culture assay
( a ) wt drg with nt - 3 - load bead .
( b ) wt drg with bsa - load bead .
( c ) bax null drg with nt - 3 - load bead .
( d ) p75 null drg with nt - 3 - load bead .
( e ) wt drg with nt - 3 - load bead and trkc - fc in the medium .
( f ) wt drg with nt - 3 load bead place at increase distance away from the ganglion ( range , 500 – 1,200 μm ) .
scale bar : 150 μm ( a – e ) , 350 μm ( f ) .
figure 6
chemoattraction towards nt - 3 bead place in e13 spinal cord drg explant co-cultures
( a ) nt - 3 bead place in the midline of e13 wt spinal cord .
notice axon label through the drgs ( circle with black dashed line ) grow towards the bead ( circle with white dashed line ) enter the spinal cord at ectopic locus instead of dorsal spinal cord .
( b ) pb - load bead in e13 spinal cord .
all label axon extend along the dorsal spinal cord , where they terminate .
( c ) high - power image of the bead in ( a ) .
notice label axon surround the bead .
( d ) high - power image of an nt - 3 - load bead .
notice axon bundle around the bead .
( e ) high - power image of an nt - 3 - load bead .
notice the axon approach the bead via the dorsal spinal cord .
( f ) high - power image of a pb - load bead .
no label fiber be observe around control bead .
( g ) summary of our observation from e13 spinal cord drg organotypic culture .
in control culture fiber extend along the dorsal spinal cord , where they normally enter the gray matter at e13 .
in the presence of an ectopic nt - 3 source localize at the midline , these axon grow towards the nt - 3 bead .
nt - 3 also initiate axon growth from the drgs , enter the spinal cord at ectopic lateral locus , grow towards the bead , surround the bead , form nerve bundle , and branch around it .
scale bar , 175 μm ( a and b ) , 100 μm ( c – f ) .
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
bg and re conceive and design the experiment .
bg , aem , and pho perform the experiment .
bg , pho , and re analyze the data .
bg and re write the paper .
academic editor : joshua r. sanes , harvard university
¤ current address : massachusetts general hospital , harvard medical school center for nervous system repair , boston , massachusetts , united state of america
citation : genç b , özdinler ph , mendoza ae , erzurumlu r ( 2004 ) a chemoattractant role for nt - 3 in proprioceptive axon guidance .
plo biol 2 ( 12 ) : e403 .
caf - 1 be essential for heterochromatin organization in pluripotent embryonic cell
abstract
during mammalian development , chromatin dynamic and epigenetic marking be important for genome reprogramming .
recent data suggest an important role for the chromatin assembly machinery in this process .
to analyze the role of chromatin assembly factor 1 ( caf - 1 ) during pre-implantation development , we generate a mouse line carry a target mutation in the gene encode it large subunit , p150caf - 1 .
loss of p150caf - 1 in homozygous mutant lead to developmental arrest at the 16 - cell stage .
absence of p150caf - 1 in these embryo result in severe alteration in the nuclear organization of constitutive heterochromatin .
we provide evidence that in wild - type embryo , heterochromatin domain be extensively reorganize between the two - cell and blastocyst stage .
in p150caf - 1 mutant 16 - cell stage embryo , the altered organization of heterochromatin display similarity to the structure of heterochromatin in two - to four - cell stage wild - type embryo , suggest that caf - 1 be require for the maturation of heterochromatin during preimplantation development .
in embryonic stem cell , depletion of p150caf - 1 use rna interference result in the mislocalization , loss of clustering , and decondensation of pericentric heterochromatin domain .
furthermore , loss of caf - 1 in these cell result in the alteration of epigenetic histone methylation mark at the level of pericentric heterochromatin .
these alteration of heterochromatin be not find in p150caf - 1 - deplete mouse embryonic fibroblast , which be cell that be already lineage commit , suggest that caf - 1 be specifically require for heterochromatin organization in pluripotent embryonic cell .
our finding underline the role of the chromatin assembly machinery in control the spatial organization and epigenetic marking of the genome in early embryo and embryonic stem cell .
synopsis
chromatin be the support of our genetic information .
it be compose of numerous repeat unit call nucleosomes , in which dna wrap around a core of histone protein .
modification in the composition and biochemical property of nucleosomes play major role in the regulation of genome function .
such modification be term “ epigenetic ” when they be inherit across cell division and confer new information to chromatin , in addition to the genetic information provide by dna .
it be usually believe that during genome replication , the basic chromatin assembly machinery build up “ naïve ” nucleosomes , and , in a subsequent step , nucleosomes be selectively modify by a series of enzyme to acquire epigenetic information .
here , the author study the role of a basic chromatin assembly factor ( caf - 1 ) in mouse embryonic stem cell and early embryo .
surprisingly , they show that caf - 1 confer epigenetic information to specific genomic region .
in addition , this study reveal that caf - 1 be require for the proper spatial organization of chromosome in the nucleus .
this new knowledge may contribute to well understand the role of chromatin in the maintenance of embryonic stem cell identity and plasticity .
introduction
during mouse pre-implantation development , the genome undergo a series of major epigenetic change require for embryonic gene expression , the maintenance of totipotency , and the first differentiation event [ 1 , 2 ] .
while many study have establish the importance of dna methylation in epigenetic reprogramming , recent data point to a crucial role of chromatin in this process [ 3 – 5 ] .
yet we know very little about the role of histone modify enzyme , chromatin remodeling factor , and histone chaperone during pre-implantation development , or in stem cell derive from early embryo [ 6 ] .
a subset of identify histone chaperone and chromatin remodeling complex can collaborate to promote nucleosome assembly in vitro and be therefore in a strategic position to control chromatin assembly and maturation during development [ 7 , 8 ] .
among histone chaperone , chromatin assembly factor 1 ( caf - 1 ) be a three - subunit ( p150 , p60 , and p48 ) complex which promote histone h3 and h4 deposition onto newly synthesize dna during replication or dna repair [ 9 , 10 ] .
specifically , caf - 1 deposit the histone h3 variant h3.1 into chromatin , in a pathway couple to dna synthesis , whereas a second histone chaperone , hira , be involve in the deposition of the h3.3 variant in a dna synthesis independent pathway [ 11 , 12 ] .
in addition to this specific chromatin assembly activity , caf - 1 interact with several protein present in heterochromatin , include heterochromatin protein 1 ( hp1 ) and mbd1 , a methyl - cpg binding domain protein that recruit histone deacetylase and repressive histone methyltransferase activity [ 13 – 15 ] .
furthermore , p150caf - 1 be require to ensure a replication - specific pool of hp1 molecule at replication site in pericentric heterochromatin during mid - late s phase [ 16 ] .
take together , these data suggest role for caf - 1 in the formation of heterochromatin and in the heritability of epigenetic trait .
while the function of this evolutionary conserve histone chaperone have be study extensively biochemically , we still lack information concern it importance during early development in mammal and in pluripotent cell such a embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
here , we have analyze the importance of caf - 1 during early mouse development by genetic ablation and in e cell by depletion use rna interference ( rnai ) .
we show that caf - 1 be essential for viability in early mouse embryo and e cell .
we provide evidence that caf - 1 be require for the spatial organization and epigenetic marking of heterochromatin domain in pluripotent embryonic cell .
result
we use gene targeting in e cell to delete exon 3 in the chaf1a gene , which encode p150caf - 1 ( figure 1a ) .
chaf1a + / − mouse be bear at a mendelian frequency , be of normal size and weight , display no obvious abnormality , and be fertile .
cross heterozygous mouse fail to generate viable newborn chaf1a − / − mouse .
furthermore , no homozygous chaf1a − / − embryo be detect at any of the post-implantation stage .
however , we could detect chaf1a − / − embryo at embryonic day 4 ( e4 ) use a pcr strategy ( figure 1b ) .
they represent only 10 % of e4 embryo obtain from chaf1a + / − mouse intercrosses , suggest that more than half of the homozygous mutant embryo have degenerate before this stage .
moreover , mutant embryo contain only eight to 16 cell at the e4 stage , instead of 32 cell observe for wild - type or heterozygous blastocyst ( figure 1c and 1d ) .
further analysis by light microscopy use immunofluorescence ( if ) allow u to compare wild - type and p150caf - 1 - deplete embryo .
a loss of p150caf - 1 staining could not be detect before the eight - cell stage ( unpublished data ) suggest that maternally contribute protein be present in the embryo up to the four - cell stage .
thus , depletion of p150caf - 1 protein from this stage allow a maximum of two additional cell division before developmental arrest .
strikingly , we find that the nuclear organization of heterochromatin appear abnormal in the nucleus of chaf1a − / − embryo .
pericentric heterochromatin , the major component of constitutive heterochromatin , can easily be visualize in interphase nucleus by the fluorochrome dapi and by immunostaining with hp1α [ 16 , 17 – 19 ] .
in wild - type blastocyst and in mouse somatic cell , pericentric heterochromatin domain cluster together and form high - order chromatin structure call chromocenters [ 20 ] , which be visualize a dapi - dense focus ( figure 1c ) .
these structure be not detect in chaf1a − / − embryo ( figure 1d ) .
since chromatin architecture and high - order structure be important for genome function [ 21 ] , we decide to characterize this phenotype in more detail .
for this purpose , we examine the status of heterochromatin organization between the two - cell and blastocyst stage .
in two - cell stage wild - type embryo , dapi staining be diffuse and fibrillar , with region of high density around the nucleolar precursor body ( figure 1e ) .
heterochromatin domain be progressively assemble into dapi - dense focus between the four - cell and 32 - cell blastocyst stage ( figure 1f ) .
localization of hp1α confirm that the structure visualize by dapi staining correspond to constitutive heterochromatin ( figure 1e ) .
thus , the nuclear organization of heterochromatin be dramatically modify during pre-implantation development , between the two - cell and blastocyst stage .
in chaf1a − / − e4 embryo , which be arrest between the eight - and 16 - cell stage , dapi - dense focus be barely detectable ( figure 1d ) .
instead , dapi staining be diffuse within the nucleus , with region of high density around the nucleolus and at the periphery of the nucleus ( figure 1d ) .
localization of hp1α show a diffuse pattern similar to the dapi , with some enrichment at the nuclear periphery , and around the nucleolus ( figure 1d ) .
this abnormal organization of heterochromatin in chaf1a − / − embryo be reminiscent of the heterochromatin organization find in two - to four - cell stage wild - type embryo ( compare figure 1d and 1f ) .
these data evidence a key role for p150caf - 1 during pre-implantation development , and reveal that this protein be require for the proper 3 - d organization of heterochromatin within embryonic cell nucleus .
next , we wonder whether a similar requirement for caf - 1 could also be observe in e cell , which be derive from the blastocyst inner cell mass .
give the early developmental arrest observe in chaf1a − / − embryo , such cell could not be derive directly from null embryo , and we thus use an rnai strategy ( figure 2a ) .
p150caf - 1 knockdown in e cell be quantify by western blot analysis and if .
( figure s1 ) .
p150caf - 1 rnai - deplete e cell display a phenotype very similar to the cell of chaf1a − / − e4 mouse .
dapi - dense focus be lose , and we observe diffuse hp1α and dapi staining around the nucleolus and at the periphery of the nucleus ( figure 2b ) .
this result indicate that p150caf - 1 be essential for nuclear organization of heterochromatin in e cell in a similar way to early pre-implantation embryo .
surprisingly , we do not observe this severe alteration in heterochromatin organization in primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) follow p150caf - 1 depletion by rnai .
p150caf - 1 depletion in mefs result in a strong inhibition of cell proliferation ( unpublished data ) , but do not alter the clustering of heterochromatin domain ( figure 2c and s2 ) .
similarly , p150caf - 1 depletion in 3t3 cell do not affect heterochromatin organization [ 16 ] .
these observation reveal a specific function for caf - 1 in the early embryo and e cell .
we also wonder whether loss of p150caf - 1 in e cell specifically affect the heterochromatin nuclear subcompartment , or whether it might result in a more global loss of nuclear organization and architecture .
we use a specific antibody against the promyelocytic leukemia ( pml ) protein to study the fate of the pml nuclear body , which be well - characterize subnuclear structure [ 22 ] .
we could not detect any significant difference in the distribution and aspect of pml nuclear body between control and p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell ( figure 2d ) .
these data show that nuclear architecture be not globally alter follow caf - 1 loss - of - function .
in addition , western blot analysis reveal that caf - 1 depletion do not result in alter level of chromatin architectural protein such a histone h3 and hp1α ( figure s1 ) .
thus , caf - 1 be specifically require in early embryo and in e cell for the proper organization of the heterochromatin subnuclear compartment .
previous study perform in mammalian cell line show that caf - 1 activity be require for s phase progression [ 16 , 23 , 24 ] .
we show here that 3 d after transfection of the rnai vector , p150caf - 1 - deplete cell ( identify by a complete absence of caf - 1 if signal ) appear still active for replication , a reveal by incorporation of the thymidine analog bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) ( figure 3a ) , the pcna ( proliferate cell nuclear antigen ) pattern ( figure 3b ) , and flow cytometry analysis ( figure 3c ) .
hence , in these cell , dna replication persist despite the drastic change in heterochromatin organization .
however , 24 h later , e cell cease to proliferate and die , reveal that p150caf - 1 be require for an essential cellular process , a in embryo .
altogether , our data demonstrate that loss of p150caf - 1 function in e cell and early embryo alter first the organization of heterochromatin in the nucleus and , in a subsequent step , cell cycle and viability .
in order to well characterize the defect in heterochromatin organization , we perform two - color dna fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) experiment to reveal the spatial distribution of pericentric and centric chromosomal region , which in mouse be mainly compose of large block of major and minor satellite repeat , respectively [ 20 ] .
pericentric domain from different chromosome form cluster , which be reveal by fish a large spot that coincide with dapi - dense focus in the interphase nucleus ( figure 4a ) .
at the periphery of each pericentric domain , centric region form individual entity ( figure 4a ) .
in p150caf - 1 rnai - deplete cell , we observe a disruption of pericentric heterochromatin cluster that coincide with the disappearance of dapi - dense focus ( figure 4b ) .
individual pericentric domain from single chromosome be now find either isolated or aggregated in a pattern less dense than the regular cluster observe in control cell ( figure 4b ) .
such aggregate , which be often find at the nuclear periphery , be also reveal by dapi staining a a typical signature of p150caf - 1 loss - of - function .
quantification of fluorescence along a line randomly draw across the nucleus reveal low fluorescence intensity and a broad distribution of dapi and major satellite hybridization signal in p150caf - 1 - deplete cell ( figure 4c and 4d ) , indicate decondensation of pericentric heterochromatin domain .
in contrast , centric domain show an intensity and shape similar to control cell , suggest that they remain unaffected by p150caf - 1 depletion ( figure 4c and 4d ) .
in conclusion , these result show that p150caf - 1 be require for the proper condensation and clustering of pericentric heterochromatin domain .
give the know role of caf - 1 in the deposition of histone h3.1 and h4 associate with dna synthesis [ 11 , 12 ] , we wonder whether this defect in high - order chromatin organization could reflect an aberrant nucleosomal organization .
use dnase i and micrococcal nuclease ( mnase ) assay , we could not observe any significant difference between control and p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell at the level of bulk genome chromatin or at pericentric repeat ( figure 5 ) .
in a second series of experiment , we compare the association of histone h3 with chromatin in nucleus isolate from cell transfected with control and p150caf - 1 rnai plasmid vector .
nucleus be incubate in buffer with different salt concentration range from 100 mm nacl to 1 m nacl .
in all condition , the amount of histone h3 remain associate with chromatin be indistinguishable in control and p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell ( unpublished data ) .
therefore , the loss of clustering and decondensation of pericentric heterochromatin be unlikely to be the consequence of severe defect in nucleosomal organization .
our finding show that the nuclear localization of hp1α be severely alter in chaf1a − / − embryo and p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell .
we therefore examine the status of other epigenetic mark previously show to characterize pericentric heterochromatin .
we first test dna cpg methylation [ 25 ] at major satellite repeat and find no significant difference between control and p150caf - 1 - deplete cell ( figure 6 ) .
a the ltm7 e cell line that we use in our rnai experiment be a female ( xx ) cell line , dna methylation be globally reduce in these cell [ 26 ] .
to rule out the possibility that hypomethylation of pericentric repeat might contribute to the destabilization of heterochromatin domain in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell , we test our rnai plasmid vector in a xy e cell line , and confirm that loss of p150caf - 1 lead to disruption of heterochromatin organization independently of the degree of dna methylation at pericentric repeat ( unpublished data ) .
we next analyze specific histone modification [ 27 ] in chromatin immunoprecipitation ( chip ) experiment use native chromatin [ 28 ] .
we find that pericentric dna be immunoprecipitated with a 2 - fold low efficiency with h4k20me3 [ 29 , 30 ] antibody follow p150caf - 1 depletion ( figure 7a and 7b ) .
immunoprecipitation of minor satellite repeat in the same experiment be less affect ( figure 7b ) , show that loss of p150caf - 1 function mainly affect h4k20me3 at pericentric heterochromatin .
moreover , no significant difference in immunoprecipitation efficiency be detect at intracisternal a particle ( iap ) element ( figure 7b ) , which be noncentromeric repeat dna element also enrich in h4k20me3 [ 31 ] .
this result show that p150caf - 1 contribute to normal level of h4k20me3 at pericentric heterochromatin , but not necessarily at other locus .
the h3k9me3 mark [ 32 ] be also significantly reduce in p150caf - 1 - deplete cell , though to a less extent than h4k20me3 ( figure 7a and 7b ) .
in wild - type cell , most of h4k20me3 and h3k9me3 signal be present at the level of dapi - dense domain when visualize by if [ 29 ] ( figure 7c and 7d ) .
h3k9me3 be severely perturb in p150caf - 1 - deplete cell , display a diffuse pattern similar to hp1α ( figure 7c ) .
the h4k20me3 pattern be even more severely alter , show both a loss of the typical dot reveal in control cell and a reduction in signal intensity ( figure 7d ) .
consistent with our chip experiment , residual h4k20me3 epitope be detect at the level of relocate dapi - dense material .
altogether , our result show that depletion of caf - 1 in e cell lead to a simultaneous disruption of heterochromatin 3 - d organization and an alteration in epigenetic marking .
discussion
here , we provide evidence that p150caf - 1 have a crucial function during mouse early embryogenesis and in e cell .
previous study show that caf - 1 be essential for the progression of dna replication in vertebrate .
in xenopus laevis , p150caf - 1 function be require for the rapid cell division that occur during early development [ 33 ] .
similarly , caf - 1 be essential in mammalian cell line for the progression of dna replication [ 16 , 23 , 24 , 34 ] .
our finding reveal a role for caf - 1 in the nuclear organization of heterochromatin domain during early development and in e cell .
we show that in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell , while dna replication initially persist without significant perturbation in nucleosomal organization , severe heterochromatin organization defect can be observe .
loss of p150caf - 1 do not affect pml body in e cell nucleus , show that nuclear architecture be not generally alter .
ultimately , p150caf - 1 depletion result in the arrest of e cell division and cell death .
give the major defect observe in heterochromatin organization , it be tempt to speculate that these defect cause the developmental arrest in the embryo and death in e cell .
the role of caf - 1 in the nuclear organization of heterochromatin include spatial localization , condensation , and clustering of pericentric domain .
this important function of caf - 1 be not reveal in primary mefs , 3t3 cell , or human cell line , suggest that it be specific of pluripotent embryonic cell .
alternatively , early embryo and e cell , whose genome be more plastic than somatic cell , might represent a particularly sensitive context in which the importance of caf - 1 in heterochromatin organization be exacerbate .
in e cell , major architectural chromatin protein be hyperdynamic and bind relatively loosely to chromatin [ 35 ] .
in this cellular context , our finding show that proper heterochromatin nuclear architecture rely on caf - 1 function .
in contrast , in undifferentiated cell that be already lineage commit ( such a mefs ) genome architecture might be more stable than in e cell and thus can not be disrupt by caf - 1 depletion .
this important function of caf - 1 in pluripotent embryonic cell could be partially conserve during evolution .
indeed , in arabidopsis thaliana , in which caf - 1 be not essential for viability [ 36 ] , loss of caf - 1 be associate with a mild alteration in chromocenter size [ 37 ] .
this phenotype be somehow reminiscent of loss of caf - 1 - mediate defect in heterochromatin organization in early mouse embryo .
in mouse e cell , we show that caf - 1 be also require for regular level of h4k20me3 at pericentric repeat , but not at iap element , which be repeat sequence spread all over the mouse genome .
these data suggest that proper nuclear organization and epigenetic marking of pericentric heterochromatin be couple in e cell .
alternatively , 3 - d organization of heterochromatin and epigenetic marking might represent two independent function of caf - 1 .
the variable requirement for caf - 1 across specie might reflect the acquisition of new property affect the function of histone h3 variant during evolution of eukaryote .
caf - 1 be essential in mammal but dispensable in saccharomyces cerevisiae [ 38 ] .
interestingly , the bud yeast genome do not contain heterochromatin region equivalent to those of high eukaryote , and several hallmark feature of heterochromatin such a di - and trimethylation at h3k9 , h3k27 , and h4k20 be not observe in the silent chromatin of s. cerevisiae .
in mammal , h3k9 dimethylation be predominantly associate with h3.1 , but not with h3.3 , which carry modification typically find in transcribe chromatin region [ 39 ] .
outside of the centromeric h3 variant , s. cerevisiae possess only h3.3 , which be express and incorporate into chromatin in a replication - independent fashion in high eukaryote [ 12 ] .
these data suggest a specific role for h3.1 in heterochromatin region .
we show here that caf - 1 , which be a h3.1 replication - dependent loading complex [ 11 ] , be specifically require for the nuclear organization of pericentric heterochromatin in embryo and e cell .
one possibility would be a scenario in which incorporation of h3.1 into chromatin be require for the proper nuclear organization of constitutive heterochromatin in an embryonic context .
while this have to be address experimentally , it be worthwhile to mention an alternate possible mechanism that might explain the disruption of heterochromatin domain in p150caf - 1 null embryo and e cell .
caf - 1 could be require for the loading , into heterochromatin , of an interact partner require for the clustering of pericentric domain .
follow one or two round of dna replication in the absence of p150caf - 1 , heterochromatin would become deprived of this molecule , which would cause the disruption of it 3 - d organization .
a potential candidate be the hp1 protein , which interact with caf - 1 [ 13 , 16 ] .
in agreement with a recent report [ 40 ] , our analysis of heterochromatin in pre-implantation embryo have reveal drastic change in nuclear organization between the two - cell and blastocyst stage .
cloning experiment in mouse reveal that the nuclear organization of heterochromatin in e cell nucleus be quickly revert into the one - cell stage - specific form after nuclear transfer [ 40 ] .
hence , remodeling of heterochromatin 3 - d organization parallel nuclear reprogramming toward an early embryonic status in clone embryo .
this drastic reorganization of heterochromatin organization be similar to that observe in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell , and in developmentally arrest 16 - cell stage chaf1a − / − embryo .
these data show that caf - 1 be involve in set up proper heterochromatin architecture during the first cell division of embryonic life .
give the importance of nuclear organization in the control of gene expression [ 21 , 41 ] , this finding suggest that caf - 1 contribute to the coordinate program of gene expression during early embryogenesis .
our finding open new perspective in the understanding of chromatin dynamic during early development and in pluripotent embryonic cell .
while most study focus on the role of dna methylation and histone modify enzyme [ 3 ] , our data point to the importance of the chromatin assembly machinery .
we show that in addition to assemble nucleosomes , caf - 1 provide spatial and epigenetic information to heterochromatin domain in early embryo and e cell .
material and method
generation of chaf1a mutant mouse and embryo .
use pcr , we amplify two genomic fragment ( about 3 kb each ) flank chaf1a exon 3 .
these dna fragment be assemble by conventional cloning with the neomycin and dt ( diphtheria toxin ) cassette , a describe in figure 1a .
the construct be transfected in e cell by electroporation .
we identify recombinant e cell carry the mutant chaf1atm1ger ( abbreviate chaf1a − in the manuscript ) allele by southern blot ( figure 1a ) .
we derive chaf1a + / − mouse by inject recombine e cell into c57bl / 6n blastocyst .
e4 embryo obtain from the intercross of chaf1a + / − mouse be genotyped by nested - pcr amplification .
embryo be collect in a pcr reaction mix contain oligonucleotide primer 1 , 2 , and 3 ( figure 1a ) that amplify the wild - type and mutant allele .
after 30 cycle of amplification , 1 μl of each pcr reaction be use in a second round of pcr amplification with a new set of oligonucleotide primer .
after 30 cycle of amplification , pcr reaction be run onto an agarose gel , which reveal the presence of the wild - type ( 150 bp ) and recombinant ( 200 bp ) allele .
p150caf - 1 depletion by rnai .
the rnai plasmid vector that we use in this study contain the mouse h1 promoter and a puromycin selection gene ( sb and mg , unpublished data ) .
we characterize in detail the property of this new vector use a gfp target gene and facs : extinction of target gene in e cell be highly efficient in 70 % of the cell , of intermediate efficiency in 15 % , and inefficient in the remain 15 % of cell analysis .
the sequence of p150caf - 1 sirna ( short interfere rna ) duplex [ 16 ] be clone into this plasmid .
the control vector express a sirna that target gfp rna degradation .
e cell be transfected by electroporation with the rna plasmid vector , seed onto gelatin - coat slide , and culture for 24 h in the absence of selection .
puromycin ( 2 μg / ml ) be add to the culture medium and cell be culture for an additional 48 - h period .
use the p150caf - 1 rnai vector , if microscopy quantification reveal a complete caf - 1 depletion in most cell ( figure s1b ) .
western blot analysis ( figure s1a ) reveal residual p150caf - 1 expression , a expect from the 15 % of cell that do not inhibit the target gene .
mefs ( passage 3 , 90 % confluence ) be transfected during 4 h with the rnai plasmid vector use lipofectamine 2000 ( invitrogene , carlsbad , california , united state ) accord to manufacturer 's condition .
cell be trypsinized , plat at 1 / 3 dilution , and culture for 48 h in the presence of puromycin .
cell line .
at - 1 e cell [ 42 ] ( a gift of m. vernet ) be use for gene targeting .
ltm7 e cell be use in all rnai experiment .
we derive this cell line from ( c57bl / 6 × 129 ) f1 female breed with c3h / hej male .
ltm7 be xx e cell , competent for germ line transmission .
primary mefs be derive from e13 embryo a describe in [ 43 ] .
immunofluorescence .
cell be fix for 20 min in pb with 4 % paraformaldehyde , and immunodetection be perform a previously describe [ 44 ] .
e4 embryo be collect and treat with tyrode acid to remove the zona pellucida , deposit onto microscope slide , and process for immunostaining a describe for e cell .
antibody anti-hp1α ( 2hp1h5 , euromedex , france ) , anti-h4k20me3 ( abcam , cambridge , united kingdom ) , anti-brdu ( dakocytomation , glostrup , denmark ) , anti-pcna ( dakocytomation ) , and anti-pml ( upstate biotechnology , lake placid , new york , united state ) be all use at 1 / 1000 dilution .
antibody anti-mouse p150caf1 [ 16 ] and anti-h3k9me3 ( upstate biotechnology ) be use at 1 / 250 and 1 / 500 , respectively .
all secondary antibody be purchase from molecular probe ( sunnyvale , california , united state ) .
western blot analysis .
cell be lysed in laemli buffer and run onto a 4 % – 12 % sd page gradient gel .
we use antibody against p150caf - 1 ( [ 16 ] ; dilution 1 / 500 ) , hp1α ( 2g9 , euromedex ; 1 / 500 ) , histone h3 ( abcam ; 1 / 500 ) , h3k9me3 ( upstate ; 1 / 500 ) and β - actin ( upstate ; 1 / 40 000 ) .
dna fish .
probe be describe previously [ 20 ] .
biotin - 16 - dutp or digoxigenin - 11 - dutp ( roche , basel , switzerland ) label probe be generate by nick translation ( roche ) and fish perform a describe [ 20 ] .
image acquisition be perform with the deltavision rt microscope ( 100 × , 1.4 na objective ) , image be deconvoluted , and fluorescence profile measure along an arbitrary line use softworx .
nucleus preparation , nuclease digestion , and biochemical analysis of chromatin .
e cell be incubate on ice for 10 min in buffer 1 ( 15 mm tris - hcl [ ph 7.5 ] , 0.3 m sucrose , 60 mm kcl , 15 mm nacl , 5 mm mgcl2 , 0.1 mm egta ) with 0.15 % igepal ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
nucleus be purify by centrifugation ( 10,000 × g for 30 min , at 4 °c ) on sucrose cushion ( buffer 1 with 1.2 m sucrose ) and resuspend in nuclease buffer ( 50 mm tris - hcl [ ph 7.5 ] , 20 mm nacl , 0.32 m sucrose , 4 mm mgcl2 , 1 mm cacl2 ) .
about 2.106 nucleus be incubate with increase quantity of mnase ( 0.04 – 1.6 unit ) or dnase i ( 0.25 – 16 unit ) .
digestion time at 37 °c be 10 min for mnase and 2 min for dnase i .
digestion be stop by add sd to 1 % and edta to 50 mm .
dna be prepare by proteinase k digestion follow by phenol - chloroform extraction and isopropanol precipitation .
to test the association of histone h3 with chromatin in control and p150 - deplete cell , isolate nucleus be incubate on ice for 30 min in buffer 2 ( 50 mm hepes [ ph7.9 ] , 20 % glycerol , 3 mm mgcl2 , 0.1 % igepal , 0.5 mm dtt , 0.5 mm pmsf ) supplement with either 0.1 m , 0.3 m , 0.45 m , 0.7 m , or 1 m nacl .
after centrifugation at 15,000 g , pellet and supernants be analyze by western blot use a histone h3 antibody ( abcam ) .
chip .
we prepare native chromatin fragment of two to six nucleosomes in length a describe [ 28 ] .
5 μg of chromatin be incubate overnight with 10 μl of commercial antibody .
after incubation with protein - g sepharose and three wash , immunoprecipitated dna be purify , size onto an agarose gel , and analyze by southern blot .
hybridization signal be quantify use an instant imager ( perkinelmer , wellesley , california , united state ) .
antibody specific for h4k20me3 be purchase from abcam .
antibody for h3k9me3 be purchase from both abcam and upstate biotechnology and give similar result .
for southern blot analysis , we use a 240 - bp ecori / bamhi fragment from psat ( major satellite probe ) [ 45 – 47 ] and a 360 - bp ecori / hindiii fragment from r198 , correspond to three copy of the 120 - bp minor satellite repeat [ 49 ] .
probe use in fish experiment be describe in [ 46 – 48 ] .
the probe for iap element be describe in [ 50 ] .
support information
figure s1
analysis of p150caf - 1 depletion by rnai with western blot and if
( a ) western blot analysis of e cell transfected with control ( cont ) or p150caf - 1 ( p150 ) rnai plasmid vector .
β - actin be use a a loading control .
amount of cell use in each lane be indicate .
p150caf - 1 knockdown do not significantly affect hp1α , histone h3 , or h3k9me3 level .
( b ) if analysis .
e cell transfected with control ( cont ) or p150caf - 1 ( p150 ) sirna vector be immunostained with p150caf - 1 antibody ( green ) and dapi ( blue ) .
scale bar = 5 μm .
fluorescence be quantify along a line draw across the nucleus and data be plot , reveal efficient p150caf - 1 depletion by rnai .
the apparent difference in the efficiency of caf - 1 knockdown reveal by western blot and if likely reflect the observation that the rnai plasmid vector use in this study be efficient in 85 % of the transfected e cell population , whereas 15 % of cell display no inhibition of the target gene ( see material and method ) .
( 1.3 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
caf - 1 - deplete embryonic fibroblast active for dna replication do not display an alter heterochromatin nuclear architecture
immunodetection of p150caf - 1 ( green ) and brdu ( red ) in mefs transfected with control ( cont ) or p150caf - 1 rnai vector .
mefs be pulse - label for 1 h with brdu prior to fixation and if analysis .
the p150 + brdu image show the merge between p150caf - 1 and brdu fluorescence .
dapi staining be show in the right - hand panel .
the cytoplasmic caf - 1 if pattern be non-specific .
( 343 kb tif )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank e. heard and s. khochbin for critical reading and suggestion ; s. jounier and h. humbertclaude for cell culture ; j. mitja , s. thessier , and j. c. robillard for animal care ; m. vernet for at - 1 cell ; k. nacerddine for the pml antibody ; n. gilbert and t. bestor for probe ; g. hamard for advice on blastocyst injection ; p. le baccon for help on image analysis ; and c. mann , a. sentenac , and e. moustacchi for their support .
abbreviation
brdu - bromodeoxyuridine
caf - 1 - chromatin assembly factor 1
chip - chromatin immunoprecipitation
e4 - embryonic day 4
e - embryonic stem
fish - fluorescence in situ hybridization
iap - intracisternal a particle
if - immunofluorescence
mef - mouse embryonic fibroblast
pcna - proliferate cell nuclear antigen
pml - promyelocytic leukemia
rnai - rna interference
sirna - short interfere rna
figure and table
figure 1
loss of p150caf - 1 function lead to early developmental arrest and alteration of heterochromatin organization
( a ) generation of chaf1a + / − mouse by homologous recombination in e cell .
( top ) scheme of the p150caf1 protein indicate the interact domain ( id ) for hp1 and p60caf - 1 , and the acidic domain ( ad ) .
( middle ) structure of the murine chaf1a gene .
block and line represent exon and intron , respectively .
a star indicate the translation initiation site .
below be show the chaf1a targeting vector , which include genomic dna homology region ( 5 hr and 3 hr ) , the diphtheria toxin ( dt ) , and neomycin selection gene .
recombine ( rec ) e cell and mouse be identify by southern blot use scai ( s ) and the indicate probe .
( b ) breeding strategy use for the production of e4 chaf1a − / − embryo .
genotyping be perform by pcr use the three oligonucleotide primer indicate in ( a ) ( 1 , 2 , and 3 ) .
an example of the result of a genotyping experiment be show .
( c ) immunodetection of p150caf - 1 ( green ) and hp1α ( red ) in e4 embryo derive from chaf1a + / − intercrosses .
because chaf1a + / + and chaf1a + / − embryo both stain positively for the presence of p150caf - 1 , they be both designate a wild - type .
p150caf - 1 expression , which indicate ongoing s phase , can be detect in most cell within the wild - type blastocyst ( upper panel ) .
the low panel show a 12 - cell embryo label negatively for p150caf - 1 .
only nonspecific background labeling can be observe .
in each panel , the right - hand image show the merge between the hp1α fluorescence and dapi - stain dna in blue .
pink color indicate the association of hp1 with dapi - dense material .
the bottom of each panel show the magnification of a nucleus select from the above embryo ( white square ) .
the arrowhead indicate the typical heterochromatin focus reveal by dapi and hp1α staining in wild - type embryo .
these focus be not visible in chaf1a − / − embryo .
dapi and hp1α staining be diffuse within the nucleus of p150caf - 1 - deplete embryo , with enrichment at the nuclear periphery , reveal abnormal heterochromatin organization .
scale bar represent 10 μm .
( e ) wild - type embryo isolate at embryonic day 2 ( e2 , two cell ) , e2.5 ( four cell ) , e3 ( eight cell ) , e3.5 ( 16 cell ) , and e4 ( 32 cell ) be show .
heterochromatin be monitor by dapi staining ( upper panel ) and hp1 immunolabeling ( in red , low panel ) .
( f ) magnification of a nucleus ( dapi - stain ) representative of each stage .
the right - hand panel show the nucleus of an e cell .
scale bar represent 10 μm .
figure 2
depletion of p150caf - 1 in e cell result in a severe alteration of heterochromatin organization
( a ) strategy use to deplete p150caf - 1 by rnai in e cell .
the sirna expression vector include a puromycin selection cassette ( puro ) , the mouse h1 promoter , and the sirna encode sequence .
e cell be keep under puromycin selection during 48 h follow transfection .
( b ) abnormal heterochromatin organization in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell .
immunodetection of p150caf - 1 ( green ) and hp1α ( red ) in e cell transfected with control ( cont ) and p150caf - 1 sirna .
sirna expression result in efficient p150caf - 1 depletion .
the right - hand image show the merge between hp1α fluorescence and dapi - stain dna in blue .
scale bar = 10 μm .
( c ) heterochromatin organization be not alter in p150caf - 1 - deplete mefs .
immunodetection of p150caf - 1 ( green ) and hp1α ( red ) in mefs transfected with control ( cont ) or p150caf - 1 sirna .
the right - hand image show the merge between hp1α fluorescence and dapi - stain dna in blue .
( d ) pml body be not alter in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell .
immunodetection of pml ( red ) in e cell transfected with control ( cont ) or p150caf - 1 sirna .
the right - hand image show the merge between pml fluorescence and dapi - stain dna in blue .
figure 3
p150caf - 1 depletion and loss of heterochromatin organization be compatible with active dna replication in e cell
( a ) e cell be transfected with p150caf - 1 or control sirna vector .
after 3 d under puromycin selection , cell be pulse - label for 10 min with brdu and immediately analyze by if .
no significant difference in brdu incorporation could be detect between control and p150caf - 1 - deplete cell .
the right - hand image show the merge between the p150caf - 1 and brdu fluorescence .
scale bar = 10 μm .
( b ) immunodetection of pcna ( red ) reveal no significant difference in the formation of replication focus between control and p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell .
immunodetection of p150caf - 1 be show in green and the merging of p150caf - 1 and pcna appear in yellow .
( c ) flow cytometry analysis show a similar cell - cycle profile for control and p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell .
result be present a the percentage of cell in each phase of the cell cycle ( g1 , s , g2 / m ) , a define by brdu incorporation and dna content .
data present be the mean of three independent experiment ; error bar indicate the standard deviation .
all experiment be perform 3 d after transfection of the sirna vector .
figure 4
depletion of p150caf - 1 lead to loss of clustering , alter localization , and decondensation of pericentric heterochromatin domain
distribution of pericentric ( red ) and centric ( green ) domain be analyze in the interphase nucleus of mouse e cell by dna fish , use major satellite ( psat ) [ 47 ] and minor satellite ( pmr150 ) [ 48 ] dna probe , respectively .
( a ) in e cell express control ( cont ) sirna , pericentric region from several chromosome associate in cluster ( red ) .
these chromocenters form focus a reveal by dapi staining ( left - hand image ) , while centric region ( green ) remain independent entity at the periphery of these domain .
the right - hand image show the merge between the pericentric and centric fish signal .
( b ) the organization of pericentric domain be alter in cell express p150caf - 1 sirna .
instead of form well - define chromocenters , pericentric domain be find either isolated or associated in heterogeneous aggregate of various size , often at the nuclear periphery .
scale bar = 10 μm .
( c ) control e cell .
fluorescence be quantify along a line randomly draw across the nucleus in the merge image and data be plot .
one can distinguish clear peak correspond to chromocenters ( red ) and the condense minor satellite ( green ) .
( d ) e cell express p150caf - 1 sirna .
p150caf - 1 depletion lead to a low fluorescence intensity and a broad distribution of signal correspond to dapi ( blue ) and major satellite hybridization ( red , plot ) while the organization of the minor satellite remain unaffected .
inset in the right - hand image show a typical chromocenter in control cell ( c ) and a disrupt chromocenter in p150caf - 1 - deplete cell ( d ) .
figure 5
nucleosomal organization be not alter in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell
nucleus be prepare from e cell transfected with control or p150caf - 1 sirna vector .
nucleus be digest with increase amount of dnase i or mnase .
( a ) after digestion with the indicate nuclease , total dna be prepare and run onto an agarose gel which be stain with ethidium bromide to reveal bulk genomic dna .
( b ) the dna be blot onto a nylon membrane , which be then hybridize with the α - 32p - label psat major satellite repeat probe [ 47 ] .
figure 6
dna cpg methylation at pericentric heterochromatin be not alter in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell
total dna be isolate from cell transfected with a control or the p150caf - 1 sirna vector and digest with maeii , whose recognition sequence be present in major satellite repeat .
digest dna be run onto an agarose gel and analyze by southern blotting use the psat major satellite probe [ 47 ] .
figure 7
alteration of epigenetic marking at pericentric heterochromatin in p150caf - 1 - deplete cell
( a ) p150caf - 1 depletion lead to reduce h4k20me3 and h3k9me3 at pericentric heterochromatin .
enrichment of histone mark at major satellite repeat be determine by chip from control ( cont ) and p150caf - 1 ( p150 ) sirna - express e cell .
dna prepare from the input and the antibody - bind fraction be run onto an agarose gel and analyze by southern blot with the psat major satellite repeat probe [ 47 ] .
( b ) hybridization signal be quantify use an instant imager .
after autoradiography , the membrane be strip and rehybridized with a minor satellite probe [ 49 ] .
after quantification , the membrane be strip and rehybridized with an iap ltr probe [ 50 ] .
result be present a the amount of dna immunoprecipitated from p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell divide by the dna obtain from control cell .
the figure show the mean value and standard deviation of three independent chip experiment .
( c and d ) h3k9me3 and h4k20me3 fluorescence pattern be severely alter in p150caf - 1 - deplete e cell .
immunodetection of h3k9me3 ( c , green ) , h4k20me3 ( d , green ) , and hp1α ( red ) in control and p150caf - 1 sirna - express e cell .
merging of hp1α with h3k9me3 ( c ) and h4k20me3 ( d ) be show in yellow .
scale bar represent 10 μm .
footnote
¤ current address : unité de génétique fonctionnelle de la souris , centre national de la recherche scientifique ura 2578 , institut pasteur , paris , france
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on september 11 , 2006 ( doi : 10.1371/journal.pgen.0020181.eor ) .
author contribution .
mh , sb , avp , jpq , ga , and mg conceive and design the experiment .
mh , sb , avp , and ph perform the experiment .
mh , sb , avp , and jpq analyze the data .
mg write the paper .
funding .
this study be fund by grant from the association pour la recherche sur le cancer and the fondation pour la recherche medicale to mg , and grant from a collaborative programme curie institute / commissariat à l'energie atomique to mg and ga .
ga 's team be labelized by la ligue contre le cancer , and part of the epigenome network .
avp have be support by the curie institute and the fondation franco norvégienne ; mh by the cea , the curie institute , and the canceropole idf .
late gestational lung hypoplasia in a mouse model of the smith - lemli - opitz syndrome
abstract
background
normal post-squalene cholesterol biosynthesis be important for mammalian embryonic development .
neonatal mouse lack functional dehydrocholesterol δ7 - reductase ( dhcr7 ) , a model for the human disease of smith - lemli - opitz syndrome , die within 24 hour of birth .
although they have a number of biochemical and structural abnormality , one cause of death be from apparent respiratory failure due to developmental pulmonary abnormality .
result
in this study , we characterize far the role of cholesterol deficiency in lung development of these mouse .
significant growth retardation , begin at e14.5 ~ e16.5 , be observe in dhcr7 - / - embryo .
normal lobation but small lung with a significant decrease in lung - to - body weight ratio be note in dhcr7 - / - embryo , compare to control .
lung branching morphogenesis be comparable between dhcr7 - / - and control at early stage , but delay saccular development be visible in all dhcr7 - / - embryo from e17.5 onwards .
impair pre-alveolar development of vary severity , inhibit cell proliferation , delay differentiation of type i alveolar epithelial cell ( aec ) and delay vascular development be all evident in knockout lung .
differentiation of type ii aec be apparently normal a judge by surfactant protein ( sp ) mrna and sp - c immunostaining .
a significant amount of cholesterol be detectable in knockout lung , implicate some maternal transfer of cholesterol .
no significant difference of the spatial - temporal localization of sonic hedgehog ( shh ) or it downstream target by immunohistochemistry be detect between knockout and wild - type lung and shh autoprocessing occur normally in tissue from dhcr7 - / - embryo .
conclusion
our data indicate that cholesterol deficiency cause by dhcr7 null be associate with a distinct lung saccular hypoplasia , characterize by failure to terminally differentiate alveolar sac , a delay differentiation of type i aec and an immature vascular network at late gestational stage .
the molecular mechanism of impaired lung development associate with sterol deficiency by dhcr7 loss be still unknown , but these result do not support the involvement of dysregulated shh - patch - gli pathway in cause this defect .
background
cholesterol be a necessary membrane constituent of all mammalian , reptile and avian cell , as well a a few other organism , but not all eukaryotic organism .
in the latter case , such a plant and fungi , cholesterol - like sterol ( phytosterols , ergosterol etc. ) seem to substitute for cholesterol .
the precise need for sterol in biological membrane still remain poorly define , though it link with microdomains ( variously term raft , caveoli etc. ) may be part of the answer [ 1 ] .
although the accumulation of cholesterol in atherosclerotic plaque have lead to the concept that ' too much ' cholesterol may be deleterious , too little cholesterol have now be prove pathophysiological for abnormal embryonic development .
smith - lemli - opitz syndrome ( slos , mim 270400 ) , a relative common dysmorphology disorder , be cause by mutation in dhcr7 [ 2 - 5 ] , which encode for 7 - dehydrocholesterol δ7 - reductase and catalyze a final step of cholesterol biosynthesis .
recognition of other dysmorphology syndrome cause by defect in the post-squalene cholesterol biosynthesis pathway , such a desmosterolosis , lathosterolosis , x - link chondrodysplasia punctanta and child syndrome [ 6 - 15 ] , have strengthen this concept .
genetic disruption of the dhcr7 result in neonatal lethality [ 16 ] .
neonatal mouse homozygous for the dhcr7 gene disruption be deficient in cholesterol and have increase accumulation of the cholesterol precursor 7 - dehydrocholesterol ( 7dhc ) .
although no embryonic lethality be note , these knockout pup exhibit a number of developmental abnormality and die within 24 h after birth .
a similar mouse slos model , generate by replace exon 3 , 4 and part of exon 5 of the murine dhcr7 gene , with similar biochemical and structural defect and a 100 % neonatal lethality , have also be report [ 17 ] .
poor lung development or diffuse lung alveolar atelectasis with cyanotic and lethargic breathing be consistent between both dhcr7 null model [ 16 , 17 ] , and therefore be the likely reason for the respiratory insufficiency and subsequent death of dhcr7 - / - pup .
these dhcr7 knockout mouse be model for human slos , especially the more severely affect patient , since early postnatal lethality with respiratory failure have be report in severe slos case [ 4 , 5 ] .
developmental lung abnormality be also relatively common in slos patient , include pulmonary hypoplasia , abnormal pulmonary lobation and pulmonary artery , anomaly of laryngeal and tracheal development [ 18 ] .
mammalian lung be unique in that it be fully developed , but do not function for gas exchange until at the moment of birth ; the majority of structural development and maturation take place in utero .
lung development be a complex process that involve branching morphogenesis of epithelium , interstitial development include vasculogenesis , cellular differentiation , biochemical maturation and physical growth .
four stage of mouse lung development have be describe , base upon the histological appearance of lung ; pseudoglandular , canalicular , terminal saccular and alveolar stage [ 19 ] .
impaired hedgehog function have be propose a a mechanism underlie malformation find in slos .
hedgehog family member play diverse role in embryonic development , and cholesterol be necessary for maturation of these morphogens [ 20 - 23 ] .
the sonic hedgehog ( shh ) signaling cascade have be show to play a central role in lung development [ 24 - 26 ] .
loss of shh function result in severe lung defect associate with loss of branch morphogenesis , but preserve proximal - to - distal differentiation of lung epithelium [ 24 ] .
overexpression of shh in the distal lung epithelium result in the absence of functional alveolus and an increase in interstitial tissue cause by an increase proliferation of both epithelial and mesenchyme cell [ 26 ] .
mouse with shh overexpression die less than 24 h after birth , probably owe to respiratory failure .
it have be report that inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis by chemical inhibitor of dhcr7 also lead to a disturbance of the shh signaling with abnormal embryogenesis [ 27 , 28 ] , and severe sterol deprivation can indeed inhibit the processing of transfected shh in culture mammalian cell [ 29 ] .
in the present study , we characterize lung development in dhcr7 - / - embryo from e10.5 to birth .
our result show that cholesterol deficiency , cause by loss of dhcr7 activity , do not alter lung branching morphogenesis ( early gestational stage , e9.5 to e14.5 ) .
however , lung saccular development be impair , with arrest or partially develop epithelial tubule and delay vascular development .
differentiation of type ii alveolar epithelial cell ( aec ) appear normal but differentiation of type i aec be severely impair .
therefore , cholesterol deficiency result in a distinct late gestational lung hypoplasia , characterize by impaired sacculation with delay type i aec differentiation and immature vascular development .
however , this study do not support the concept that the perturbation of shh - patch - gli pathway be involve in the pathogenesis of developmental lung hypoplasia in dhcr7 - / - embryo .
pattern of expression of shh signaling cascade member be not alter , and processing of shh appear normal .
result
body growth retardation at late gestation stage in dhcr7 - / - embryo
dhcr7 - / - mouse be bear in the expect mendelian ratio from heterozygous parent , but all of these pup die within 24 h and most within 14 h of birth [ 16 ] .
at birth , they be clearly small than wild - type or heterozygous littermates .
an experienced investigator can pick out knockout pup base on this along with presence of hypoxia and their lack of spontaneous movement .
the breathing frequency in p0 dhcr7 - / - pup be markedly slow than control littermates ( 34 ± 7 breath / min in dhcr7 - / - , n = 10 vs. 92 ± 16 breath / min in control , n = 32 , p < 0.001 ) and the breathing be observe to be more irregular and shallow , with long period of apnea .
to determine the gestational stage at which growth of the knockout embryo be affect , embryo be harvest at various stage of gestation and their body length compare between dhcr7 - / - and control .
a linear increase in body length from e9.5 to e19.5 in control embryo be observe ( fig. 1 ) .
no significant difference in body length between wild - type and heterozygous embryo be note ( data not show ) .
in contrast , knockout embryo show comparable body length growth until e14.5 ~ e16.5 , then begin to show a slow increase in length , such that by e17.5 , this be statistically significant ( 18.87 ± 1.29 mm in control , n = 15 compare to 16.69 ± 1.05 mm in dhcr7 - / - , n = 7 , p < 0.05 , fig. 1 ) .
figure 1
body length growth curve .
body length growth vs. gestational day be a show .
control embryo ( fill triangle , wild - type and heterozygous embryo be pool together a there be no difference between these two group ) and knockout embryo ( fill circle ) be a show .
the growth curve show a linear increase from e9.5 to e19.5 in control , but deviate at ~ e14.5 in dhcr7 - / - embryo .
body length at e17.5 ( 18.87 ± 1.29 mm in control , n = 15 vs. 16.69 ± 1.05 mm in dhcr7 - / - , n = 7 , p < 0.05 ) , e18.5 ( 21.35 ± 1.05 mm in control , n = 15 vs. 19.38 ± 0.9 mm in dhcr7 - / - , n = 5 , p < 0.05 ) and e19.5 ( 23.4 ± 0.97 mm in control , n = 13 vs. 20.3 ± 0.44 mm in dhcr7 - / - , n = 4 , p < 0.05 ) be significantly decrease , compare to those in control .
result be express a mean ± s.d .
dhcr7 - / - embryo at late stage display pulmonary hypoplasia with delay saccular development
wet lung weight , as well a lung to body weight ratio be significantly low in dhcr7 - / - at e18.5 compare to those in wild - type but not at e13.5 ( table 1 ) .
both body and lung weight be reduce , but lung seem to be more affected .
a representative figure of embryo at e10.5 and of the pup at birth be show in fig. 2a and 2b .
table 1
whole body and lung weight of mouse embryo
* p < 0.05 , compare to dhcr7 + / + .
bw , body weight ; lw , lung weight .
figure 2
embryonic size , lung morphology and histology at various stage of development .
panel a show the size and general morphology of wild - type ( + / + ) and dhcr7 - / - ( - / - ) embryo at e10.5 , without significant difference .
at p0 , the knockout pup be significantly small and appear hypoxic ( panel b ) .
panel c show dorsal view of lung from knockout and wild - type at e13.5 and panel d those at p0 .
cross - sectional examination at the cardiopulmonary level at e 20.5 ( prior to birth ) show normal lobar septation , but lung from knockout animal be small in size and have less distal sac space ( cf. panel e and f ) .
original magnification : panel a and c , 2x ; panel b and d , 0.7x ; e and f , 2x .
label : r , right ; l , left ; b , bronchial ; br , bronchiole ; e , esophagus ; pa , pulmonary artery ; ra , right atrium ; la , left atrium ; rv , right ventricle ; lv , left ventricle .
we examine the lung for any gross morphological abnormality .
the overall organogenesis of lung be preserve in dhcr7 - / - pup ; four right lung lobe and a single left lobe flank the heart be easily see on external examination at birth ( fig. 2d ) .
examination for lobation at e13.5 also show comparable gross anatomy ( fig. 2c ) between wild - type and knockout embryo .
histological analysis of the cardiopulmonary structure at e20.5 , take just before birth to avoid artifact from lack of lung inflation , also confirm normal gross anatomic development ( fig. 2e and 2f ) .
additionally , no cardiac defect be identify and this be confirm by more detailed histological analysis ( data not show ) .
thus , despite the obvious hypoxia frequently observe at birth of the knockout pup , major cardiac structural abnormality be not observe to account for this phenotype .
no distinguishable morphological difference be discernable between dhcr7 - / - and wild - type lung at e10.5 , e13.5 , e14.5 and e16.5 at low ( 10x ) or high ( 40x ) magnification ( fig. 3 , panel a : a - h , data for e10.5 and e13.5 not show ) .
however , from e17.5 onwards , lung from knockout embryo appear to have less saccular space and relatively more mesenchyme compare to wild - type lung ( fig. 3 , panel a : i - x ) .
lung from control animal show normal progression with formation of sac - like structure , the precursor of the alveolus ( fig. 3 , panel a : i , m , q and u ) .
in lung from knockout embryo , expansion of epithelial tubule occur but be significantly delay ( fig. 3 , cf. panel a : j , n , r , v with i , m , q and u ) .
morphometric measurement of lung section at e17.5 , e18.5 , e20.5 and in lung from neonate show that the proportion of terminal sac space area be significantly decrease in dhcr7 - / - lung , compare wild - type lung ( fig. 3 , panel b ) .
interstitial mesenchyme appear thick and the lung have less septation compare to control lung .
this ' thickening ' of the alveolus may explain the hypoxia frequently see in dhcr7 - / - pup at birth .
figure 3
histological analysis of lung at various embryonic stage .
panel a indicate lung section stain with h and e , and take at various gestational stage a indicate .
the first two column be at low magnification ( 10x ) and the last two column at high magnification ( 40x ) .
the first and third column be representative section from wild - type ( + / + ) embryo and the second and fourth column from knockout ( - / - ) embryo .
no difference be visible at e14.5 or e16.5 ( panel a , a - h ) .
significant difference be visible from e17.5 onwards ( panel a , i - x ) .
distal tubule show dilation and mesenchyme thinning , with progression of septation in wild - type lung ( panel a , i , m and q ) , whereas the knockout lung show less saccular structure and more mesenchyme ( panel a , j , n and r ) .
at high magnification of wild - type lung ( panel a , k , o and s ) , develop pre-alveoli and thin mesenchyme ( arrowhead ) be see but section from knockout embryo show a delay in this sequence of development ( panel a , l , p and t ) .
at birth , lung from knockout pup show deficient septation and thick - wall mesenchyme ( panel a , x , arrowhead ) .
label : de , distal epithelium ; m , mesenchyme ; pa , pulmonary artery ; a , pre-alveoli ; b , bronchus .
panel b show the morphometric analysis of lung terminal sac space in lung at various gestational stage .
a significant reduction in the terminal sac space be note from e17.5 onwards .
result be express a mean ± s.d .
attenuate cell proliferation in late gestational dhcr7 - / - lung
do the loss of normal cholesterol biosynthesis lead to abnormality of cell proliferation / division or cell death ?
cell proliferation be examine by immunostaining for pcna and also by brdu incorporation .
both pcna and brdu staining of wild - type and knockout lung at early gestational stage ( e13.5 and e14.5 ) show comparable pattern ( fig. 4 , panel a - d ) .
however , a clear reduction of pcna and brdu labeling be visualize in distal lung of knockout embryo at late gestational stage ( e18.5 and e20.5 , fig. 4 , panel e - h ) .
attenuate pcna labeling be also note in knockout heart at term ( fig. 4 , cf. panel i and j ) .
when lung be stain for phh3 , a marker of active cell division , a clear reduction of phh3 expression in the epithelium of knockout lung be observe at e20.5 but not at e14.5 ( fig. 4 , panel k , l , o and p ) .
in contrast , use the tunel assay , no apparent difference in cell apoptosis rate be observe between wild - type and knockout lung at e18.5 ( fig. 4 , cf. panel m and n ) .
thus , at the late gestational stage , cell proliferation / division be impair in knockout embryo with no increase in cell death rate .
figure 4
analysis of cell proliferation , cell division and cell death .
cell proliferation ( pcna : panel a , b , e and f ; brdu : panel c , d , g and h ) , cell division ( phh3 : panel k , l , o and p ) and cell death ( tunel : panel m and n ) be analyze by immunostaining on lung section at early and late gestational stage .
both pcna and brdu label cell in both epithelial and mesenchymal region be comparable at early stage ( e14.5 for pcna and e13.5 for brdu ) between wild - type ( + / + ) and knockout ( - / - ) lung .
positively stain cell in distal lung at late stage ( e20.5 for pcna and e18.5 for brdu ) from knockout lung be markedly reduce , compare with wild - type .
pcna labeling of cardiac muscle be also attenuate in knockout embryo at e20.5 ( cf. panel i and j ) .
no apparent difference in tunel immunostaining be observe in lung section at e18.5 between wild - type and knockout .
the phh3 immunostaining be comparable between wild - type and knockout lung at e14.5 , and the lung from wild - type at e20.5 show a high index of positive cell , whereas lung from knockout show a apparent reduce staining pattern .
note the divide cell be mainly epithelial .
original magnification : a - d and g - n be 20x ; e , f , o and p be 40x .
sterol content of develop lung in dhcr7 deficient mouse
markedly elevated 7 - dhc / 8 - dhc level and reduce body cholesterol level have be report previously in dhcr7 - / - p0 mouse [ 16 , 17 ] .
a significant amount of cholesterol be detectable in lung of dhcr7 - / - mouse , comprise ~ 60 % and ~ 30 % of total tissue sterol at e13.5 and neonate , respectively .
in contrast to the doubling of cholesterol in the lung of wild type embryo ( 1.82 mg / g tissue at e13.5 to 3.55 mg / g tissue at p0 ) , cholesterol content in the lung of dhcr7 null embryo remain at almost constant low level between e13.5 and p0 gestational stage ( fig. 5 ) .
there be a progressive increase in 7 - dhc and 8 - dhc ; the latter be generate a a spontaneous isomerization from the former .
total sterol at birth be reduce in lung of the dhcr7 null mouse , but be only low by ~ 30 % ( fig. 5 , see value for p0 mouse ) .
figure 5
sterol analysis of embryonic lung .
sterol content , include cholesterol ( black bar ) and 7dhc / 8dhc ( white bar ) , be quantitated by gc - m in the lung from wild - type ( + / + ) and knockout ( - / - ) embryo .
result be express a mean ± s.d and the number of lung analyze be a indicate .
total sterol be low at all stage in knockout lung , with almost no increase in cholesterol content with time ( black bar ) , but there be a progressive increment in the precursor sterol , 7dhc / 8dhc ( open bar ) , with increase gestation .
cholesterol be absolutely require for steroid hormone synthesis by the adrenal gland .
adrenal insufficiency , a have be report in some severe case of slos patient , could be responsible for the lung hypoplasia and perinatal lethality [ 30 ] .
steroid , but particularly corticosteroid , be necessary for lung maturation , especially the synthesis and secretion of surfactant component [ 31 ] .
we determine plasma corticosterone level in p0 mouse within 12 h of birth .
wild type p0 mouse have corticosterone level of 158 ± 50 ng / ml ( n = 11 ) , compare with 225 ± 50 ng / ml ( n = 7 , p < 0.01 ) in dhcr7 - / - p0 mouse .
thus , the corticosterone level in dhcr7 - / - mouse be not decrease , but increase by ~ 40 % .
however , since these p0 mouse be die , perhaps this increase be sub-optimal give the stress .
nevertheless , an absolute lack of corticosterone be not present in these knockout pup .
to far rule out any effect of corticosterone deficiency on lung immaturity , we examine lung for surfactant protein expression .
surfactant protein c , a determine by ihc , be comparable in lung section from wild - type or dhcr7 null embryo at either e18.5 or at e20.5 gestational age ( fig. 6 , panel a ) .
northern analysis for sp - a , sp - b , sp - c or sp - d show no significantly difference between wild - type and dhcr7 null mouse at term ( fig. 6 , panel b ) .
thus , surfactant protein expression be not alter by dhcr7 deficiency .
figure 6
surfactant protein expression in lung .
panel a show the immunostaining pattern for sp - c in lung at e18.5 and e20.5 from wild - type ( + / + ) and knockout ( - / - ) embryo .
no significant difference in the pattern of sp - c staining be evident between wild - type and knockout lung ( panel a , a - d ) .
note that the underdeveloped epithelial tubule in knockout lung also express sp - c ( panel a , b and d , arrowhead ) , indicate normal type ii aec differentiation .
original magnification : 10x .
panel b , left - hand panel , show a representative result from northern analysis of total rna from wild - type , heterozygous and knockout p0 lung for sp - a , sp - b , sp - c and sp - d expression .
densitometry analysis show the relative expression ( n = 3 , mean ± s.d. ) of these surfactant protein mrna be not significantly different between these three genotype .
dhcr7 - / - lung show abnormal differentiation of type i alveolar epithelial cell ( aec )
at e20.5 , the distal lung of wild type embryo consist of saccular structure line by flat type i aec , and by cuboidal surfactant - produce type ii aec ( fig. 7a ) .
in contrast , the formation of these typical saccule be impair in dhcr7 deficient lung .
instead , these saccular structure be line by a low columnar epithelium that lack flattened type i - like cell with the presence of many undeveloped or arrested epithelial tubule ( fig. 7b ) .
consistent with disruption of type i aec differentiation be the dramatic reduction of expression of t1α , an apical membrane protein marker of lung type i aec ( fig. 7 , cf. panel c and d ) .
decrease immunostaining for aqp5 , another type i aec marker , be also note in dhcr7 deficient lung at e20.5 , compare to control lung ( fig. 7 , cf. panel e and f ) .
megalin , a low density lipoprotein receptor ( ldlr ) gene family member , be express by embryonic epithelial cell and can function a an endocytic shh receptor [ 32 ] .
megalin be highly express on the distal epithelium at e20.5 from wild - type lung , as well a type i aec line the develop saccule ( fig. 7g ) .
in contrast , though megalin staining be detect in develop saccule in knockout embryonic lung , it expression be confine to undifferentiated cuboidal cell ( fig. 7h ) , far indicate a delay in type i aec differentiation in the knockout lung .
figure 7
characterization of type i aec differentiation .
the normal distal saccule of wild - type ( + / + ) at near term ( e20.5 ) show typical type i ( t1 ) and type ii ( t2 ) epithelial cell ( panel a , arrowhead ) , but knockout ( - / - ) littermate lung show less developed saccule line by columnar epithelial cell ( panel b , black arrowhead ) , with partially arrest tubule in the distal lung ( panel b , green arrowhead ) .
immunostaining for type i cell marker t1α and aqp5 demonstrate an intense staining in flat epithelial cell in wild - type lung at e20.5 ( panel c and e , arrowhead ) .
in contrast , in knockout littermate lung , t1α and aqp5 staining be dramatically decrease ( panel d and f , arrowhead ) .
megalin expression ( meg ) be detect in the airway epithelial cell , but not in proximal bronchiole epithelial cell ( data not show ) in the lung from both wild - type and knockout at e20.5 .
the elongate megalin - positive epithelial cell , line the normally develop sacculi , be readily evident in many area of the wild - type lung .
in contrast , the terminal epithelial cell positively stain by megalin antibody in knockout lung be comprise mainly of undifferentiated cuboidal cell ( compare the arrowhead in g and h ) .
original magnification : a , b , g and h be 60x , c - f be 40x .
delay vascular development in dhcr7 - / - lung
there be a close relationship between blood vessel development and lung structural development .
at late lung developmental stage , time capillary bed development be essential for the formation of mature alveolar gas - exchange , with a loss of mesenchyme separate the capillary bed and the aec [ 19 ] .
in dhcr7 - / - lung at late gestational stage , the relative abundance of mesenchyme be consistent with the general arrest in sacculation .
to investigate whether the delay lung sacculation also involve abnormal blood vessel development , immunostaining for the α - isoform of caveolin - 1 ( cav - 1α ) and platelet endothelial cell adhesion molecular ( pecam - 1 ) be perform on section from wild - type and dhcr7 - / - lung .
in the develop lung , cav - 1α be express strictly in the endothelium of develop capillary and blood vessel .
cav - 1α be present in the terminally differentiated type i aec , but be not detectable in it progenitor or type ii aec [ 33 ] .
at e14.5 , both the epithelium and mesenchyme be negative for cav - 1α staining , and cav - 1α be detect in the develop blood vessel and capillary , with no difference observe between wild - type and dhcr7 - / - lung ( fig. 8 , panel a and b ) .
cav - 1α immunostaining demonstrate that the vascular development proceed rapidly during saccular stage in normal lung ( e17.5 and e20.5 ) .
in near - term normal lung ( e20.5 ) , an extensive vascular network , associate with markedly thin septation wall of well - develop alveolus and close apposition to flat type i aec , be observe ( fig. 8 , panel c and e ) .
in contrast , the cav - 1α pattern in lung from dhcr7 - / - embryo reveal a relatively undeveloped pulmonary capillary bed ( fig. 8 , panel d and f ) .
at e20.5 , cav - 1α stain cell in knockout lung be embed in a relatively thick mesenchyme surround undeveloped epithelial tubule , and these epithelial cell remain cuboidal , instead of flatten out ( fig. 8 , panel f ) .
pecam - 1 staining at e20.5 confirm the delay lung vascular development at these late gestational stage in dhcr7 deficient embryo ( fig. 8 , cf. panel g and h ) .
figure 8
immunostaining pattern for caveolin - 1 α and pecam - 1 in lung section .
cav - 1α staining be compare at e14.5 , e17.5 and e20.5 stage of development .
both the epithelium and mesenchyme be negative for cav - 1α at e14.5 .
develop blood vessel ( red arrowhead ) and capillary ( arrow ) ( panel a and b ) be stain positively for cav - 1α , but the staining pattern between wild - type ( + / + ) and knockout ( - / - ) lung be not alter .
cav - 1 α be also detect at the proximal bronchiole sub-epithelial matrix ( panel a - d , black arrowhead ) .
at e17.5 , the airway epithelium , negative for cav - 1 α staining , be surround by ring of cav - 1 α positively stain capillary network ( panel c and d , arrow ) .
cav - 1 α expression pattern in lung from knockout embryo at e17.5 be similar to wild - type embryo , but relative less capillary bed be note in knockout lung ( cf. panel c and d ) .
at e20.5 of wild - type lung , both cav - 1 α and pecam - 1 staining demonstrate an extensive vascular network in the well develop saccule , with staining observe in close proximity to flat epithelial cell line the air space ( panel e and g , arrow ) .
however , delay vascular development be observe in knockout lung , show capillary ( panel f and h , arrow ) of the knockout lung at e20.5 be embed in a relatively thick mesenchyme around the undeveloped epithelial tubule in which the epithelial cell be remain cuboidal ( arrowhead ) .
original magnification : a - d be 20x ; e - h be 40x .
be the pattern of sonic hedgehog expression or signaling alter in dhcr7 - / - embryo ?
shh be critical for normal embryonic development and it autoprocessing , result in a cholesterol molecule covalently attach at it c - terminus , be a necessary step for it regulate signaling function [ 23 , 34 ] .
thus , disruption of cholesterol biosynthesis could conceivably disrupt it pattern of distribution and thus affect normal development .
to determine whether aberrant expression of shh contribute to the dhcr7 - / - lung phenotype , distribution of shh in the dhcr7 - / - and wild - type lung be assess from e10.5 to p0 by ihc use shh - n peptide antibody .
at e10.5 , the distribution of shh be detect in the epithelial cell of lung bud ( fig. 9 , left panel : c and d ) , as well a in the more typical shh - express location , such a the floor plate , notochord and mid gut ( fig. 9 , left panel : a - d ) .
importantly , no difference between dhcr7 - / - and control embryo be note .
likewise , examination of lung section from increase gestational age through to birth show no significant difference between wild - type and dhcr7 deficient tissue .
the pattern of staining observe be comparable to those previously report for shh in mouse lung [ 25 ] .
figure 9
shh and ptch expression pattern at different gestational stage in dhcr7 - / - and wild - type mouse .
left panel show the shh immunostaining pattern use an antibody to shh n - peptide at various gestational stage a indicate by the legend on the y - axis .
there be no significant difference note at any of the stage examine between wild - type ( + / + ) and knockout ( - / - ) embryo .
at e10.5 , shh be detect in the floor plate ( fp ) , notochord ( nc ) ( a and b ) , mid - gut ( mg ) and the epithelial bud of lung ( lb ) ( c and d ) .
shh staining be restrict to epithelial cell in the distal region of the primordial tube of lung at e13.5 and e15.5 .
note that proximal epithelial cell of primordial tube be not immunostained for shh ( e and f , arrow ) .
shh be detect in the lung epithelial cell on e18.5 , and mainly in the conduct airway in the neonate .
original magnification : a ~ h , k and l be 10x , i and j be 20x .
right panel show the pattern of ptch ihc at various gestational stage .
immunostaining of ptch from e13.5 to p 0 confirm concordance with shh expression and be not significantly different between wild - type and knockout embryo .
note that the proximal epithelial cell of primordial tube be also not immunostained for ptch at e13.5 lung ( arrow ) .
original magnification : a ~ f , i and j be 10x .
g and h be 20x .
to far investigate shh signaling in these embryo , we examine the pattern of expression of patched ( ptch ) , a cognate receptor for shh and one whose expression be also regulate by shh signaling .
the pattern of ptch in lung section from various gestational stage be also indistinguishable between wild - type and knockout embryo ( fig. 9 , right panel ) .
the expression of ptch be in concordance with that of shh ( fig 9 , left and right panel ) , show lung epithelial cell expression .
downstream of the shh - ptch signaling cascade be protein such a smoothen ( smo ) , and gli protein , key regulator of target - gene expression in response to shh signaling .
no difference in expression pattern for smo ( fig. 10 , upper panel ) , gli1 ( fig. 10 , middle panel ) or gli3 ( fig. 10 , bottom panel ) be note between wild - type and knockout lung at e13.5 , e15.5 and e17.5 gestational day .
figure 10
comparison of smo , gli1 and gli3 expression in lung section .
smoothened ( smo , upper panel ) , gli1 ( middle panel ) and gli3 ( bottom panel ) show a pattern of distribution similar to that see with shh and ptch ( compare to fig. 7 ) .
no difference between wild - type ( + / + ) and knockout ( - / - ) embryo be evident .
original magnification : 20x .
shh protein processing in dhcr7 - / - embryo
since shh expression , as well a some of the shh signaling component appear to be normal in dhcr7 - / - embryo , endogenous autoprocessing of shh to generate a cholesterol - modify n - terminal fragment of shh ( shh - np ) be evaluate .
co - 1 cell , transfected with full length shh cdna ( capable of endogenous autocleavage ) or a truncate shh cdna ( shh - n , expression of the short form constitutively ) be use a control ( fig. 11 , track 1 and 2 ) .
transfection of the full - length cdna for shh lead to the detection of an ~ 20 kd protein that correspond with the cleave and tail shh ( fig. 11 , track 1 ) , a previously describe [ 35 ] .
transfection of co cell with the constitutive truncate shh - n cdna lead to two slow migrate band that correspond to truncate shh , but which be think to be generate by difference in lipid modification , a previously demonstrate [ 35 ] .
in tissue lysates from wild - type , dhcr7 + / - and dhcr7 - / - embryo at e11.5 , a band run at the same position a shh - np ( autocleaved and tail ) be detect in all of the lysates .
there be no distinguishable difference between dhcr7 - / - and the wild - type sample , suggest that shh autoprocessing occur normally , despite an absolute deficiency of cholesterol in knockout embryo .
more importantly , no band correspond to a full - length shh ( ~ 45 kd ) be present in the lung lysates from the knockout embryo , suggest that processing of shh be not impair .
figure 11
shh protein autoprocessing in mouse embryo .
western blotting of lysates from wild - type ( track 3 ) , heterozygous ( track 4 ) and knockout ( track 5 ) embryo at e11.5 , or cos1 cell transfected with shh ( track 1 ) or shh - n ( track 2 ) be probe with anti-shh - n19 antibody .
20 μ g of lysate protein from shh transfected cos1 cell and 75 μ g from embryo be load .
both unprocessed ( shh , upper arrow ~ 45 kda , faint signal ) and process ( shh - np , low arrow , strong signal , track 1 ) form of shh be detect from shh transfected cos1 cell .
the two slow migrate band in shh - n transfected cos1 cell ( track 2 ) represent shh - n protein with different lipid modification at it n terminus .
a major band run at the same position a process shh be detect in lysates from all the embryo ( track 3 – 5 ) .
importantly , no significant amount of unprocessed or aberrantly migrate shh protein be detect in lysates from knockout embryo at this stage .
discussion
the elucidation that slos be cause by a defect in an enzyme necessary for cholesterol biosynthesis have improve our understanding of embryonic development .
this discovery have lead to the identification of other disorder of embryonic development cause by mutation in gene encode other enzyme in the post-squalene step of cholesterol biosynthesis .
although these genetic study now implicate the need for normal cholesterol synthesis , the mechanistic role ( s ) of cholesterol in normal embryonic development remain to be clarify .
in the present study , we report the characterization of lung development in dhcr7 - / - embryo .
although cardiac abnormality be common in human slos [ 36 ] , no structural abnormality of the heart or the great vessel be observe in the dhcr7 - / - pup .
lung development in dhcr7 - / - embryo at the early stage , from lung bud formation to canalicular stage , be morphologically similar to control .
instead , a distinct lung hypoplasia at the saccular stage , characterize by arrest or partially develop distal epithelial tubule , reduce terminal sac space , delay type i aec differentiation and delay vascular development , be consistently observe at late gestational stage in dhcr7 - / - embryo .
at late stage of normal fetal development , the mammalian alveolar epithelium undergo an abrupt differentiation a a part of the preparation of the lung for the postnatal demand of gas exchange [ 37 ] .
both type ii aec , produce pulmonary surfactant , and type i aec , line the expand alveolus , be important for alveolar maturation .
in addition , the vascular development of alveolus be also essential for normal lung morphogenesis at late gestational stage [ 19 ] .
we show here that the differentiation of type i aec but not type ii aec in dhcr7 - / - lung be block or delay , a indicate by few flatten type i cell and by reduce expression of marker of type i aec , t1α and aqp5 .
delay vascular development be also involve in the delay sacculation of dhcr7 - / - lung .
additionally , the mesenchyme separate the aec from the vascular bed remain thickened .
in support of normal differentiation of type ii aec , no alteration in the gene expression pattern for surfactant protein a , b , c or d be note , nor be the pattern of distribution of sp - c alter in lung from knockout embryo .
thus , impaired gas exchange , a oppose to poor inflation and alveolar tension , may be the cause of respiratory failure in these pup .
loss of functional dhcr7 lead to a retardation of embryonic growth from e14.5 ~ e16.5 onwards .
by this stage , cholesterol level be already low and it immediate precursor , 7 - dhc , elevate in the lung ( this study ) as well a in the whole body [ 16 , 17 ] .
intrauterine growth retardation ( iugr ) follow by postnatal failure to thrive be a universally observe phenotype in slos patient [ 2 , 18 ] .
we show here that body length be significantly reduce at late stage of gestation in dhcr7 - / - animal , compare to control .
whole body weight and fresh lung weight ( as well a brain , heart and kidney , data not show ) at late gestational stage be also low in dhcr7 - / - embryo .
interestingly , the low lung / body ratio at e18.5 in dhcr7 - / - embryo compare to wild - type suggest a disproportionate inhibition of lung growth than other organ .
cell proliferation and division in dhcr7 - / - lung be markedly arrest without apparent increase in cell apoptosis .
therefore , it appear that growth retardation cause by cholesterol deficiency be primarily because of an inhibition of cell growth and proliferation , rather than an increase in cell death .
cholesterol be present in dhcr7 - / - embryo , a it be in sc5d - / - ( lathosterolosis ) and dhcr24 - / - ( desmosterolosis ) embryo [ 15 , 38 ] .
total sterol and cholesterol in dhcr7 - / - embryonic lung ( as well a in brain and liver , data not show ) be reduce and 7dhc / 8dhc elevate , but a significant amount of cholesterol be detectable , comprise ~ 60 % and ~ 30 % of total tissue sterol at e13.5 and neonate , respectively .
fetal cholesterol can either be synthesize endogenously in fetal tissue or accrue from extra-embryonic tissue such a maternal serum , placenta , and yolk sac [ 39 ] .
since these mouse theoretically can not synthesize cholesterol , any accumulation of cholesterol must be derive from the maternal source .
interestingly , dhcr24 null mouse be viable but contain almost no cholesterol in plasma and tissue at 3 - month , whereas cholesterol content in dhcr24 null embryo tissue account for ~ 60 % at e11.5 and ~ 30 % at e17.5 , of total tissue sterol [ 38 ] .
these result , as well a this study , suggest that a considerable amount of maternal cholesterol can be transfer to the murine fetus .
one explanation of why the dhcr24 - / - mouse be developmentally normal but dhcr7 - / - mouse be affect may be because desmosterol can functionally substitute for cholesterol , whereas the other cholesterol precursor can not .
although a mechanistic understanding of why a deficiency in cholesterol biosynthesis lead to abnormal embryonic development be lack , a frequently advance explanation have be that shh signaling , involve in early developmental patterning , may be disrupt .
in the develop lung primordium , shh be express initially at e9 and promote branch morphogenesis , which be impair in shh knockout mouse [ 24 ] , suggest that shh , secrete by the epithelium , be critical for branch morphogenesis .
in this study , the lack of evidence of abnormal lung branch morphogenesis in the early stage , but a consistent delay maturation of the gas - exchange region of the lung in the saccular period of development of dhcr7 - / - embryo be observe , suggest early shh signaling be normal .
shh protein expression and autoprocessing at e11.5 be indistinguishable between wild - type and dhcr7 - / - embryo .
additionally , although these experiment be not quantitative , the abundance of shh appear unchanged between these genotype .
thus , it be possible that the cholesterol level ( roughly 50 % of normal level ) in dhcr7 - / - embryo be enough for completion of shh autoprocessing or 7dhc accumulate in dhcr7 - / - embryonic tissue can also participate efficiently a a sterol adduct in the shh processing reaction [ 20 ] .
in this study , we also examine the shh signaling pathway by immunohistochemistry of known key component of this pathway , such a patch , smoothen and gli protein .
shh signaling lead to the activation of transcription and increase protein level of these component [ 40 - 42 ] .
if shh signaling be defective in dhcr7 - / - embryo , these could have result in abnormality of the stain pattern of these component , but no such disturbance be detect .
indeed , the pattern of protein expression seem comparable and indistinguishable from wild - type embryo at all stage of lung development examine .
in a recent in vitro study [ 43 ] , mouse embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) from dhcr7 - / - embryo , grow in lipid - deplete culture and transiently treat with cyclodextrin , show no affect on shh processing .
however , a deficiency in their ability to respond to shh activation , a judge by reporter gene expression , be demonstrable .
in contrast , when cho cell , that stably express shh , be subject to sterol deprivation , an arrest of shh autoprocessing be clearly demonstrable [ 29 ] .
in the present study , we do not detect unprocessed shh in dhcr7 - / - embryonic tissue at e11.5 .
subtle difference in shh signal transduction can not be exclude by the present study .
however , we favor a model whereby the loss of normal cholesterol biosynthesis be important , not so much for shh autocleavage , a for the loss of the correct plasma membrane milieu .
since the loss of cholesterol content in the plasma membrane ( and perhaps any membrane ) be likely to alter the function of receptor more sensitive to this , loss of normal cholesterol synthesis may cause a loss of signal transduction of a host of such pathway .
thus , this effect may not be limit to the shh pathway and other target may be more important .
this hypothesis be amenable to testing in the dhcr7 null mouse .
conclusion
cholesterol deficiency cause by dhcr7 deficiency in mouse result in , along with iugr , a distinct lung saccular hypoplasia with impaired differentiation of type i but not type ii aec and delay associate vascular development .
loss of the correct amount of cholesterol in the membrane may perturb those receptor that depend upon cholesterol for efficient signal transduction .
further investigation of which transcriptional and signal transduction pathway be more significantly affect by the loss of dhcr7 will be critical to elucidate the mechanism of lung hypoplasia of this model , as well a the role of cholesterol in embryonic development .
method
animal
all mouse be house in an animal facility at 22 °c with a 12 h light ~ 12 h dark cycle and all protocol be approve by the institutional animal welfare committee .
dhcr7 heterozygous animal use in this study have be backcross onto a c57bl / 6j background for 11 successive generation .
the presence of vaginal plug be consider a embryonic day ( e ) 0.5 .
time pregnant female be sacrifice , embryo dissect from the uterus and place in 1x pb .
crown - rump length of the embryo be measure by use of an electronic digital caliper and embryo weigh , after blot off excess fluid .
each lung be remove intact from the thoracic cavity , blot free of excess fluid , and weigh .
mouse be classify a p0 when birth be witness and their breathing activity visualize under a dissect microscope .
digital image of embryo or lung be capture use a zeiss - 1000 dissect microscope .
genotyping be perform by pcr , a describe previously [ 16 ] .
and in selective case , southern blot be perform for confirmation of dhcr7 genotype .
biochemical measurement
tissue sterol composition be analyze by gas chromatography - mass spectrometry ( gc - m ) a describe previously [ 2 , 44 ] .
serum corticosterone level be measure by radioimmunoassay ( ria ) on the blood obtain from decapitate neonate by a commercial source ( drtc hormone assay core lab , vanderbilt university , tn ) .
histology and immunohistochemistry
thoracic part from embryo or p0 mouse be fix in either amsterdam 's fixative ( methanol : acetone : acetic acid : water , 35 : 35 : 5 : 25 v / v ) or 4 % paraformaldehyde in pb .
tissue be fix overnight at room temperature ( rt ) , rinse in pb , dehydrate in a graded ethanol series , clear in toluene and embed in paraffin .
five μ m section be mount on superfrost - plus slide ( vwr , west chester , pa ) for histological or immunohistochemistry ( ihc ) analysis .
ihc be perform use an indirect method .
after deparaffination in xylene and rehydration through a graded series of ethanol , section be heat at 95 °c in 10 mm sodium citrate ( ph 6.0 ) for an initial 15 min and for three successive 5 - min period [ 25 ] .
after cool , the section be treat with hydrogen peroxide ( 3 % v / v in pb , ph7.4 ) for 10 min and rinse in the pb .
section be block with 5 % normal serum for 2 h , wash in pb and incubate with antibody against shh - n19 ( 1 : 100 ) , patched ( 1 : 100 ) , smo - n19 ( 1 : 100 ) , gli1 ( 1 : 100 ) , gli3 - n19 ( 1 : 100 ) , sp - c c19 ( 1 : 200 ) , caveolin 1 α - n20 ( 1 : 200 ) , aquaporin 5 ( aqp5 , 1 : 200 ) , megalin ( 1 : 200 ) , pecam - 1 ( 1 : 200 ) ( santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , ca ) or t1α ( mab 8.1.1 , 1 : 1000 dilution , developmental study hybridoma bank , iowa city , ia ) overnight at 4 ° c in a humidify chamber .
the section be wash in pb , incubate with biotinylated secondary antibody ( 1 : 1000 ~ 1 : 5000 , santa cruz biotechnology ) in pb for 2 h at rt , incubate with hrp - streptavidin complex for 30 min , rinse in pb and visualize use a metal enhance diaminobenzidine ( dab ) substrate kit ( pierce , rockford , il ) .
digital image be collect use a polaroid digital microscope camera mount on an olympus bx40 microscope .
lung morphometry
terminal saccular space area be measure use nih image software ( nih , bethesda , md ) a previously describe [ 45 ] .
multiple measurement be perform on randomly select 0.04 - mm2 field locate in the distal part of the lung section .
the proportion of lung comprise terminal saccular space be calculate a a percentage of the total examine area of the lung section .
three animal per genotype be examine .
assessment of cell proliferation / division / death
change in cell proliferation and division be assess by proliferate cell nuclear antigen ( pcna ) ihc , bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) incorporation and phosphorylated histone h3 ( phh3 ) ihc .
the pcna ( 1 : 2000 ) and phh3 - ser28 ( 1 : 200 ) antibody be obtain from santa cruz biotechnology .
for brdu incorporation , time pregnant mouse at e18.5 be inject intra-peritoneally with 100 μg / gm body weight of brdu ( sigma , st louis , mo ) 2 h prior to sacrifice , embryo dissect from uterus and process a describe above .
section be stain with a monoclonal anti-brdu antibody ( 1 : 100 , developmental study hybridoma bank , iowa city , ia ) and visualize with a cy2 - conjugate rabbit anti-mouse antibody use a laser - scan confocal microscope .
cell death be investigate by terminal deoxynucleotidyltransferase - mediate dutp nick - end label ( tunel ) use the fluorescein in situ cell death detection kit ( roche , indianapolis , in ) accord to the manufacturer 's protocol .
western blotting
sample preparation and western blotting be perform accord to kawakami et al with some minor modification [ 35 ] .
briefly , 3 embryo from each genotype be pool , homogenize in ice cold lysis buffer ( 50 mm tris - ph8.0 , 150 mm nacl , 2 mm edta , 1 % triton x - 100 , 0.5 mm dtt , 1 mm pmsf and 2 μg / ml each of aprotinin , leupeptin and pepstatin a ) with a tissue homogenizer ( pro scientific inc. , oxford , ct ) use three pulse of 10 second each and then subject to dounce homogenizer by 10 stroke .
the homogenate be centrifuge at 10,000 g for 30 minute at 4 °c , supernatant collect , protein concentration determine and use for western blotting .
cos1 cell be transfected use superfect transfection reagent ( qiagen , valencia , ca ) with expression construct encode either the full - length shh or the n - terminal fragment of shh without post-translational modification ( construct kindly provide by dr. pao - tien chuang , cardiovascular research institute , university of california , san francisco , ca ) , harvest 3 day after transfection and protein extract prepare a describe above .
protein concentration be determine use bio - rad protein assay kit ( biorad , hercules , ca ) and 20 μg ( cos1 cell ) and 75 μg ( embryo ) of lysates separate by 15 % sd - page , transfer onto nitrocellulose membrane , incubate with primary antibody ( shh - n19 , 1 : 100 ) for 2 hour , follow by donkey anti-goat hrp second antibody ( 1 : 1000 ) and visualize by chemiluminescent detection accord to manufacturer 's protocol ( perkin - elmer life science , boston ma ) .
northern blotting
northern blotting be perform a previously describe [ 46 ] , use total rna ( 20 μg ) from p0 mouse lung .
the cdna probe for sp - a , sp - b and sp - c be kindly provide by dr. jeffery whitsett ( division of pulmonary biology , cincinnati child 's hospital medical center , cincinnati , ohio ) .
a cdna probe for sp - d be amplify by rt - pcr , use murine sp - d cdna specific primer ( sense 5 ' - tgcctggtcgtgatggacg - 3 ' , and antisense 5 ' - agcactgtctggaagcccgc - 3 ' ) and confirm by sequencing .
author 's contribution
hy design the experiment .
hy , alp and jlc perform experiment .
gst analyze tissue sterol by gc - m and jo perform lung morphometric analysis .
hy , aw and sbp analyze the data .
hy and sbp prepare the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
we be grateful to jeffery whitsett for provide cdna probe for sp - a , sp - b and sp - c and pao - tien chuang for the shh and shh - n plasmid .
this research be support by a beginning grant - in - aid 0160349u from the american heart association , mid-atlantic consortium ( hy ) ; nih po1 hl52813 and nih po1 hd39946 ( aw ) and nih hl68660 ( sbp ) .
cloning and characterization of mr - s , a novel sam domain protein , predominantly express in retinal photoreceptor cell
abstract
background
sterile alpha motif ( sam ) domain be ~ 70 residue long and have be report a common protein - protein interaction module .
this domain be find in a large number of protein , include polycomb group ( pcg ) protein and ets family transcription factor .
in this work , we report the cloning and functional characterization of a novel sam domain - contain protein , which be predominantly express in retinal photoreceptors and the pineal gland and be designate mouse mr - s ( major retinal sam domain protein ) .
result
mr - s be evolutionarily conserve from zebrafish through human , organism through which the mechanism of photoreceptor development be also highly conserve .
phylogenetic analysis suggest that the sam domain of mr - s be most closely relate to a mouse polyhomeotic ( ph ) ortholog , mph1 / rae28 , which be know a an epigenetic molecule involve in chromatin modification .
these finding provide the possibility that mr - s may play a critical role by regulate gene expression in photoreceptor development .
mr - s be preferentially express in the photoreceptors at postnatal day 3 – 6 ( p3 - 6 ) , when photoreceptors undergo terminal differentiation , and in the adult pineal gland .
transcription of mr - s be directly regulate by the cone - rod homeodomain protein crx .
immunoprecipitation assay show that the mr - s protein self - associate mainly through the sam domain - contain region as well a ph .
the mr - s protein localize mainly in the nucleus , when mr - s be overexpressed in hek293t cell .
moreover , in the luciferase assay , we find that mr - s protein fuse to gal4 dna - bind domain function a a transcriptional repressor .
we reveal that the repression activity of mr - s be not due to a homophilic interaction through it sam domain but to the c - terminal region .
conclusion
we identify a novel gene , mr - s , which be predominantly express in retinal photoreceptors and pineal gland .
base on it expression pattern and biochemical analysis , we predict that mr - s may function a a transcriptional repressor in photoreceptor cell and in pinealocytes of the pineal gland .
background
in the development of the mammalian retina , a diverse range of cell type be generate from a pool of multipotent retinal progenitor cell .
among these cell type , photoreceptors account for over 70 % of all cell in the retina .
in vertebrate , there be two class of photoreceptors , rod and cone .
rod be sensor of dim light , while cone function in bright light and be responsible for color vision .
phototransduction , a series of signal amplification detect a single photon of light , be initiate by the capture of light with 11 - ci - retinal , a chromophore bind by the opsin protein : rhodopsin in rod and cone opsin in cone .
the protein that carry out phototransduction be locate in an elaborate and highly specialized membranous structure , the out segment .
the out segment appear to be relatively fragile , degenerate in response to many environmental and / or genetic perturbation .
in the rodent retina , the production of specific cell type during development progress in a general order [ 1 , 2 ] .
rod photoreceptor generation peak around the time of birth .
cone photoreceptors , ganglion cell , horizontal cell and amacrine cell be generate earlier , while müller glia and bipolar cell be generate later .
this production of different cell type at different time appear to derive from difference in the intrinsic property of progenitor cell involve in the transcription or chromatin modification .
recent study identify several important transcription factor of photoreceptor development [ 3 - 7 ] .
two otx family homeobox gene , otx2 and crx , play essential role in early cell fate determination and terminal differentiation of photoreceptors [ 3 , 8 , 9 ] .
in the absence of otx2 function , differentiate photoreceptor cell be convert to amacrine - like neuron [ 9 ] .
crx , a downstream target of otx2 , control the transcription of various photoreceptor cell - specific gene and be essential for the formation of out segment , synaptic terminal , and phototransduction pathway [ 8 , 10 ] .
crx transcript begin to be express in develop photoreceptors at embryonic day 12.5 ( e12.5 ) in the mouse and a strong upregulation of crx transcription be apparent across the differentiate photoreceptors at postnatal day 6 ( p6 ) .
photoreceptor cell in the crx knockout ( ko ) mouse exhibit a dramatic reduction of many photoreceptor molecule include visual pigment and develop neither photoreceptor out segment nor a synaptic terminus [ 8 , 10 ] .
in addition , mutation of human crx have be demonstrate to be associate with three type of photoreceptor disease : autosomal dominant cone - rod dystrophy 2 , autosomal dominant - type retinitis pigmentosa , and leber 's congenital amaurosis ( lca ) [ 11 - 14 ] .
while otx2 and crx control general photoreceptor development , three other transcription factor , trβ2 , nrl , and nr2e3 regulate the specification of photoreceptor cell type [ 4 , 5 , 7 ] .
sam domain ( also know a pointed , hlh , or spm domain ) be ~ 70 residue long and have be report a common protein - protein interaction module [ 15 - 17 ] .
this domain be find in a large number of protein , include polycomb group ( pcg ) protein [ 18 ] , serine threonine kinase [ 19 ] , eph family receptor tyrosine kinase [ 20 ] , the p73 tumor suppressor [ 21 ] , the rna - bind protein smaug [ 22 ] , diacylglycerol kinase [ 23 , 24 ] , yeast mating type signaling protein [ 19 , 25 ] and ets family transcription factor [ 26 , 27 ] .
the pcg protein be transcriptional repressor that maintain gene silencing during development [ 28 - 30 ] .
in mammal , pcg protein be also implicate in hox gene regulation .
their biological activity lie in stable silencing of specific set of gene through chromatin modification .
a member of polycomb repressive complex 1 ( prc1 ) , ph , contain a sam domain at the c - terminal , and prc1 complex be know to form helical , head - to - tail polymer through it sam domain [ 31 ] .
these polymeric structure mediate the formation of a high order chromatin structure and possibly stabilize the repress state of hox gene .
in this study , we identify a novel gene , mr - s , which encode a sam domain - contain protein .
the sam domain of mr - s be most closely relate to that of ph mouse ortholog , mph1 / rae28 .
mr - s be predominantly express in retinal photoreceptors when they undergo terminal differentiation , and adult pineal gland .
the expression of mr - s be directly regulate by crx .
moreover , mr - s be localize in the nucleus and can self - associate through it sam domain - contain region .
we also find that mr - s protein fuse to gal4 dna - bind domain function a a transcriptional repressor .
these finding suggest that mr - s function a a member of a transcriptional repressor complex in retinal photoreceptor development .
result
cloning of mouse mr - s
in order to identify novel mouse gene preferentially express in the develop retina , we screen the national institute for biotechnology information ( ncbi ) database , unigene , use digital differential display ( ddd ) and find est fragment which be frequently present in mouse retinal cdna library .
we find that one clone in these cdna encode a protein contain a sam domain relate to that of polyhomeotic protein .
a pcr fragment correspond to this mouse clone be use to screen a mouse p0 - p3 retinal cdna library to obtain a full - length cdna clone .
sequence analysis show that this cdna be a novel gene encode a sam domain - contain protein .
we refer to this protein a mr - s ( major retinal sam domain protein ) .
a show in fig. 1a , a translation initiation codon be present in the same open reading frame a the sam domain .
this initiation site show similarity to the consensus sequence propose by kozak [ 32 ] include the presence of the highly conserve purine at position - 3 .
the stop codon of the predict mr - s protein be also indicate in fig. 1a .
the amino acid sequence of the sam domain of mr - s protein ( fig. 1a , box sequence ) exhibit homology with sam domain of ephb2 , epha4 , mph1 , tel and smaug ( fig. 1b ) .
by phylogenetic analysis , the sam domain of mr - s be most closely relate to that of mph1 / rae28 , a mouse homolog of ph ( fig. 1c ) .
mouse mr - s protein be conserve in rat , human , chick and zebrafish , which display 91 % , 70 % , 36 % and 26 % identity with mouse mr - s , respectively ( fig. 1d ) .
the sam domain of rat , human , chick and zebrafish mr - s protein be highly conserve and display 96 % , 90 % , 76 % and 72 % identity with the sam domain of mouse mr - s protein .
the chromosomal localization of mouse and human mr - s gene be determine by search the mouse and human genome database ( ncbi ) , respectively .
mouse mr - s be map to chromosome 4e2 , and human mr - s be map to chromosome 1p36.33 .
lca be the most common cause of inherit childhood blindness .
human mr - s map in the vicinity region of the lca9 , recently identify a a new locus for lca [ 33 ] .
figure 1
mr - s nucleotide and amino acid sequence .
( a ) mr - s nucleotide and amino acid sequence .
box amino acid be the sam domain sequence and the dashed box indicate a putative nuclear localization signal .
the underline indicate a putative polyadenylation termination signal .
( b ) alignment of sam domain sequence for sam domain - contain protein .
the five alpha helix be mark h1 - h5 .
conserve amino acid residue be show with a dark shadow and functionally similar residue be show with a light shadow .
the site that be target for mutagenesis be indicate by arrow .
( c ) phylogenetic tree of sam domain - contain protein .
amino acid sequence be analyze by the neighbor - join method in macvector 7.2 .
branch length reflect the mean number of substitution per site .
( d ) schematic comparison of the amino acid sequence for mouse , rat , human , chick and zebrafish mr - s protein .
the percent similarity of the sam domain and other region to the correspond region of the mouse protein be show .
overall sequence similarity with the mouse protein be show on the right .
expression of mr - s in the develop retina and the pineal gland
to investigate mr - s expression , we first perform whole mount in situ hybridization in mouse embryo .
no hybridization signal be detect at e9.5 , e10.5 and e11.5 with an mr - s probe ( data not show ) .
we then investigate the expression of the mr - s gene in the develop retina by section in situ hybridization ( fig. 1a – g ) .
no significant signal be detect in the develop retina at e13 ( fig. 2a ) .
a weak signal be initially detect in the out aspect of the neuroblastic layer ( nbl ) , a presumptive photoreceptor layer at e18 ( fig. 2b , arrow ) .
at p3 , an mr - s transcript be clearly detect in the develop photoreceptor layer ( fig. 2e ) .
at p6 , mr - s show peak expression in the photoreceptor layer ( fig. 2f ) .
this pattern correlate with the rapid increase in cell express rhodopsin and other phototransduction gene between p6 - p8 [ 34 - 37 ] .
at p9 , the intensity of the mr - s signal be significantly reduce but be localize to the out nuclear layer ( onl ) ( data not show ) .
faint expression of mr - s mrna be observe in mature photoreceptors in the adult retina ( fig. 2g ) .
figure 2
mr - s expression in develop mouse retina and pineal gland .
( a - g ) mr - s expression during development of the mouse retina .
the in situ hybridization signal of mr - s be not detect at e13 ( a ) .
the signal ( arrow ) be first detect in the out aspect of nbl at e18 ( b ) .
a strong mr - s signal be detect in out layer of the retina at p3 - p6 , and then the signal decrease in the adult retina ( e - g ) .
control with the sense probe in e18 retina be show ( c ) .
scale bar , 100 μm .
( h ) northern blot analysis of mr - s expression in adult mouse organ .
the arrow correspond to 2.2kb mr - s transcript .
( i ) rt - pcr analysis of total rna extract from e13 whole embryo , p0 whole body ( except for the eye ) , p7 retina , p7 pineal gland , p7 brain , p7 liver , adult retina , adult pineal gland , adult brain and adult liver , respectively .
rpe , retinal pigment epithelium ; nr , neural retina ; nbl , neuroblastic layer ; gcl , ganglion cell layer ; onl , out nuclear layer ; inl , inner nuclear layer .
to determine the tissue specificity of mr - s expression , the expression of the mr - s gene in various adult tissue be examine by northern hybridization ( fig. 2h ) .
a a control , p7 retinal rna be use .
four band correspond to 7.2 - kb , 4.0 - kb , 2.5 - kb and 2.2 - kb be detect in p7 retina .
the 2.2 - kb band correspond to the cdna characterize in this study .
the large band , possibly alternative splice transcript , have not yet be characterize .
the mr - s probe do not detect a band in the adult tissue examine , indicate that these tissue do not express mr - s at a level comparable to that of the develop retina .
previous report reveal that many photoreceptor - specific gene be also express in the pineal gland [ 38 ] .
we examine the expression of mr - s transcript in the whole embryo , whole body , retina , pineal gland , brain , liver and other organ at various stage by rt - pcr ( fig. 2i and data not show ) .
we amplify pcr fragment of 292 bp and 452 bp with primer pair for gene encode mouse mr - s and g3pdh , respectively .
in e13 whole embryo and p0 whole body ( except for the eye ) , no mr - s signal be detect .
a expect , we observe that mr - s be express in the p7 and adult pineal gland .
in the p7 and adult brain , liver and several other organ , the rt - pcr amplify band of mr - s be not detect ( fig. 2i and data not show ) .
our data show that mr - s be predominantly express in develop photoreceptors and the pineal gland .
regulation of mr - s transcription by crx homeodomain protein
transcription factor otx2 and crx be know to be key regulator of retinal photoreceptor development [ 3 , 8 , 9 ] .
although both otx2 and crx be express in develop photoreceptor cell in the embryonic retina , only crx be highly express in the postnatal photoreceptors , suggest that mr - s may be regulate by crx .
to test whether crx regulate mr - s transcription , we perform in situ hybridization of mr - s mrna on wild - type and crx ko p5 retina ( fig. 3a , b ) .
in the crx ko retina , the mr - s transcript be dramatically reduce ( fig. 3b ) .
this indicate that crx be essential for transactivation of mr - s .
moreover , to test whether the transcription of mr - s be also regulate by crx in the pineal gland , rt - pcr analysis be use to compare transcriptional level of mr - s in p28 wild - type and crx ko pineal gland ( fig. 3c ) .
the result reveal that mr - s transcription be significantly downregulated in the crx ko pineal gland .
take together , these data indicate that mr - s transcription be regulate by crx in the develop photoreceptors and pineal gland .
figure 3
the transcription of mr - s be regulate by crx .
( a , b ) in situ hybridization use a probe for mouse mr - s be perform on the wild - type ( a ) and crx ko retina ( b ) at p5 .
mr - s expression be drastically reduce in the crx ko retina ( b ) .
scale bar , 100 μm .
( c ) rt - pcr analysis of total rna extract from the pineal gland of p5 wild - type and crx ko mouse .
the upper and low lane show pcr product amplify by the primer pair specific for mr - s and g3pdh cdna , respectively .
water be use for control rt - pcr reaction .
( d - f ) crx transactivates mr - s transcription .
reporter plasmid for the luciferase assay be show .
blue box represent crx binding site ( d ) .
relative activity of the luciferase be indicate when pro1.2k be co-transfected with crx , otx2 , nrl , and crx + nrl , respectively ( e ) .
fold activation be indicate when pro1.2k , mut1259 , mut198 , mut72 and mut all be co-transfected with the crx expression vector ( crx + ) or the empty vector ( crx - ) into hek293t cell ( f ) .
error bar represent standard error of mean .
to far examine whether crx regulate mr - s transcription directly or not , we next perform a luciferase assay use the 1.2 - kb proximal promoter region of mr - s fuse to a luciferase gene a a luciferase reporter ( fig. 3d , pro1.2k ) and the crx , otx2 , nrl expression vector , respectively .
this 1.2 - kb region of the mr - s upstream sequence contain three crx binding consensus sequence .
a show in fig. 3e , the luciferase activity be significantly upregulated when the crx or otx2 expression vector be co-introduced with pro1.2k into hek293t cell , while the luciferase activity be not alter when the nrl expression vector be co-introduced .
a previous report suggest that the transcriptional activity of crx be augment with nrl when the rhodopsin promoter be use a a reporter gene [ 6 ] .
on the other hand , our present data show that the luciferase gene expression be not upregulated when both crx and nrl expression vector be co-introduced with pro1.2k compare to the activity when the crx only expression vector be introduce .
this may be due to cell type difference because a cell type of retinal / pineal origin be not use in our luciferase assay .
in addition , our present data show that otx2 , which be report to have the same binding consensus a crx , also transactivated mr - s expression .
a show in fig. 2a – f , the expression pattern of mr - s correlate with that of crx .
in contrast , the transcript of otx2 be mainly detect in the photoreceptor layer at embryonic stage .
therefore , we conclude that mr - s transcription be directly regulate mainly by crx .
we also construct reporter vector in which mutation be introduce at the three crx binding site ( fig. 3d , mut1259 , mut198 , mut72 , mut all ) .
then the crx expression vector be co-introduced with mut1259 , mut198 , mut72 and mut all , respectively ( fig. 3f ) .
the transactivaton activity by crx be clearly reduce when mut198 or mut72 be co-introduced .
on the other hand , when mut1259 be co-transfected , the transactivation activity by crx be not alter .
these result suggest that the crx binding site 72 - bp and 198 - bp upstream from the transcription initiation site be crucial for the direct regulation of mr - s transcription by crx .
self - association of mr - s protein
sam domain be know to function a protein - protein interaction module [ 15 - 17 ] .
although sam domain can bind to various non-sam domain - contain protein , many homo-sam and hetero-sam domain interaction have be report .
to investigate whether the sam domain of the mr - s protein can also function a a protein - protein interaction module , we perform yeast two - hybrid screening use full - length mr - s protein a the bait .
use this bait , we screen the transcriptional activator fusion protein library in which mouse p0 - p3 retinal cdna be fuse to the gal4 activation domain .
the most frequent positive clone ( 5 out of 28 ) be cdna fragment contain the sam domain of mr - s ( fig. 4a ) .
this result strongly suggest that mr - s protein self - associate through sam domain - contain region .
we then directly test this self - association of mr - s protein in yeast .
we fuse full - length or truncate portion of the mr - s protein to the dna - bind domain of the yeast transcription factor gal4 to make bait construct .
we fuse full - length or truncate portion of the mr - s protein to the gal4 transcriptional activation domain to make prey construct ( fig. 4b ) .
these construct be transform into yeast that contain a transgene with gal4 binding site upstream of the lacz gene .
we find that the full - length mr - s bait construct induce lacz expression with the full - length mr - s prey construct ( fig. 4b , full × full ) .
the n - terminus 400 amino acid ( aa ) stretch of mr - s , which do not contain a sam domain , do weakly activate transcription of lacz ( fig. 4b , full × n ) .
the n - terminus 400 aa stretch of mr - s be able to induce transcription of lacz weakly with the same n - terminus 400 aa stretch of mr - s ( fig. 4b , n × n ) .
although the n - terminus 400 aa mr - s protein weakly activate lacz transcription with the same n - terminus portion , a much strong activation of lacz expression be observe with a c - terminus portion encode the 391 – 542 aa stretch of mr - s ( fig. 4b , full × c , c × c ) .
our gal4 assay indicate that the signal when the full - length mr - s be present in both the bait and prey context be weak than when isolated sam domain be use .
this may simply reflect the tendency for the small fusion protein to enter the yeast nucleus and occupy gal4 binding site .
alternatively , the sam domain may be less accessible for interaction in the full - length protein context a previously report [ 39 ] .
figure 4
summary of yeast two - hybrid screening and gal4 assay .
( a ) full - length mr - s a a bait use in the yeast two - hybrid screening and positive clone be indicate .
note that all of five mr - s clone identify in the screening contain sam domain .
( b ) schematic diagram of the mr - s fusion protein use in the yeast gal4 assay .
black box represent the position of sam domain .
relative level of lacz expression be show on the right , respectively .
note ; ++ indicate an intense blue signal visible after 12hr of incubation at 37 °c , + indicate a blue signal visible after 24hr of incubation .
bd , binding domain ; ad , activation domain ; full , full - length mr - s ; n , n - terminal portion of mr - s ( amino acid 1 to 400 ) ; c , c - terminal portion of mr - s ( amino acid 391 to 542 ) .
to confirm self - association of the mr - s protein in mammalian cell , we next perform co-immunoprecipitation study in hek293t cell by co-transfection of ha - tag full - length / truncate mr - s and flag - tag full - length / truncate mr - s ( fig. 5a ) .
a a negative control , we construct flag - tag sonic hedgehog ( shh ) ( lane 2 and 7 ) .
in accordance with the result of the yeast two - hybrid gal4 assay , ha - tag full - length mr - s ( full - ha ) be co-immunoprecipitated with flag - tag full - length mr - s ( flag - mr ) and the flag - tag c - terminus portion contain the sam domain ( flag - sam ) , respectively ( fig 5b , lane3 and lane5 ) .
we also find a weak co-immunoprecipitation band in co-transfection of full - ha and flag - tag n - terminus portion of mr - s ( flag - δsam , fig. 5b , lane 4 ) .
when δsam - ha and flag - tag deletion mutant be co-transfected , δsam - ha be co-immunoprecipitated with flag - mr and flag - δsam ( fig. 5b , lane 8 and lane 9 ) , while δsam - ha be not co-immunoprecipitated with flag - sam ( fig. 5b , lane 10 ) .
figure 5
the mr - s protein can self - associate in mammalian cell .
( a ) schematic drawing of the construct use for immunoprecipitation assay .
ha - tag or flag - tag full - length ( amino acid 1 to 542 ) , δsam ( amino acid 1 to 400 ) and sam ( amino acid 401 to 542 ) region be insert into pcdna3 vector , respectively .
( b ) the construct indicate above be transfected into hek293t cell .
each lane be co-immunoprecipitated by anti-flag antibody and detect by anti-ha antibody .
input protein lysates be show in the low panel .
( c ) flag - tag two site - direct mr - s mutant , flag - w404a and flag - g453a be generate and co-transfected with full - ha .
each lane be co-immunoprecipitated by anti-ha antibody and detect by anti-flag antibody .
to investigate whether the mr - s protein self - associate mainly through the sam domain , two site - direct mutation be generate in the sam domain of mr - s ( fig. 1b , arrow ) .
these mutation alter residue that be conserve in the sam domain of ph and previous report indicate that these mutation of ph - sam cause significant reduction in binding activity to the other sam domain - contain protein , sex comb on midleg ( scm ) ( 41 ) .
base on this result , we introduce two type of site - direct mutation , which correspond to the mutation introduce in ph protein , into flag - tag full - length mr - s ( flag - w404a and flag - g453a ) .
we find that flag - w404a binding activity be significantly reduce and flag - g453a binding activity be also slightly reduce compare to flag - mr ( fig. 5c ) .
these result , together with yeast two - hybrid gal4 assay , indicate that the mr - s protein self - associate strongly through it sam domain and weakly through the n - terminus portion lack sam domain .
the subcellular localization of mr - s protein in mammalian cell
the putative nuclear localization signal at the n - terminus of the mr - s protein ( fig. 1a , dashed box ) suggest that the mr - s protein localize in the nucleus .
to determine the subcellular localization of mr - s in mammalian cell , we introduce an ha - tag full - length mr - s plasmid into hek293t cell .
confocal microscopy show that the mr - s protein localize mainly in the nucleus of hek293t cell ( fig. 6a , b ) .
to confirm the precise localization of the mr - s protein , full - length mr - s be co-immunostained with dapi ( fig. 6c – e ) .
these data show that the mr - s protein localize preferentially to the nucleus in mammalian cell , support the idea that the mr - s protein be involve in transcriptional regulation a be ph and / or tel .
figure 6
subcellular localization of mr - s in mammalian cell .
( a , b ) ha - tag full - length mr - s be transfected into hek293t ( b ) and detect by anti-ha antibody ( a ) .
scale bar , 20 μm .
( c - e ) hek293t cell immunostained with anti-ha antibody ( c ) , dapi ( d ) , and merge image ( e ) .
scale bar , 50 μm .
the gal4 - mr - s fusion protein function a transcriptional repressor
a member of pcg protein , ph , do not contain an obvious sequence - specific dna bind motif ( 16 ) .
ph function a a transcriptional repressor through it polymerization and protein - protein interaction with other sequence - specific transcriptional repressor , which can form a high order chromatin structure .
the mr - s protein also do not have an obvious dna - bind domain .
to characterize the biochemical activity of mr - s , we next perform a luciferase assay .
we generate effector plasmid , which express various deletion construct of mr - s fuse to the gal4 dna - bind domain ( fig. 7a ) .
we first confirm that full - length mr - s fuse to gal4 dna binding domain ( dbd - mr ) have no effect on the pgl3 promoter plasmid lack gal4 binding site ( data not show ) .
when the 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid be co-transfected , dbd - mr repress luciferase activity by about 90 % in a dose - dependent manner ( fig. 7b ) .
a a control , gal4 dna - bind domain ( dbd ) have no significant effect on the 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
in addition , we confirm that full - length mr - s without gal4 dbd have no effect on the same reporter plasmid ( data not show ) .
we next analyze deletion construct in which the n - terminus 400 aa stretch of mr - s ( amino acid 1 to 400 ) or the c - terminus portion ( amino acid 391 to 542 ) be fuse to the gal4 dbd ( fig. 7a , dbd - n , dbd - c ) .
while dbd - n have no repressive effect on this reporter activity , dbd - c repress luciferase gene expression by about 65 % .
this result suggest to u the possibility that dbd - mr exert transcriptional repressive activity via self - association through it sam domain .
to investigate whether the homophilic association of mr - s be require for transcriptional repression , two site - direct mutant , dbd - w404a and dbd - g453a , either of which may reduce self - bind ability , be analyze ( fig. 7c ) .
compare to dbd - mr , dbd - w404a and dbd - g453a have repression activity of 72 % and 87 % , respectively .
while the ability of mr - s self - association partially correlate with transcriptional repressive activity , these mutant do not compromise the ability to repress transcription critically .
to determine the region of mr - s involve in transcriptional repression more precisely , the c - terminus portion be divide into two region and each be fuse to the gal4 dbd ( fig. 7a , dbd - tail , dbd - sam ) .
a a consequence , dbd - sam ( amino acid 384 to 462 ) do not have a repressive effect on the 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
on the other hand , luciferase activity be repress by 55 % when dbd - tail ( amino acid 459 to 542 ) be co-transfected with this reporter plasmid ( fig. 7d ) .
to assess the transcriptional repressive activity of mr - s in cell of retinal origin , we perform similar experiment use human y79 retinoblastoma cell .
the result indicate that dbd - mr also reduce luciferase activity significantly in y79 retinoblastoma cell ( fig. 7e ) .
however , luciferase activity be repress by about 30 % in y79 cell , while it be repress by 90 % in hek293t cell .
this might be due to the difference in transfection efficiency between these cell line .
another possibility be that intracellular environment in y79 cell , a retinoblastoma cell line , be insufficient for recapitulate develop photoreceptors .
in this study , we do not address the question whether or not our in vitro data reflect native mr - s transcriptional repression in vivo .
however , these in vitro experiment use hek293t and y79 cell strongly support our hypothesis that mr - s function a a transcriptional repressor in develop photoreceptors .
our result suggest that the c - terminal region of mr - s ( amino acid 463 to 542 ) be require for transcriptional repression of mr - s and the sam domain appear to be dispensable for this repressive activity .
this c - terminal region of mouse mr - s be highly conserve among specie ( fig. 7f ) .
the sequence identity of the region be 93 % , 73 % , 41 % and 40 % for rat , human , chick and zebrafish , respectively ( fig. 1d ) .
this strongly suggest that the c - terminal region of mouse mr - s function a a transcriptional repressive domain in photoreceptor development .
however , this region do not contain characteristic amino acid motif and the mechanism through which the region achieve and / or maintain gene repression remain to be clarify in the future .
figure 7
mr - s fuse to gal4 dna bind domain function a a transcriptional repressor in hek293t cell .
( a ) schematic drawing of the construct use for the luciferase assay .
5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid be co-transfected into hek293t cell with effector plasmid express various deletion mutant fuse to gal4 - dbd .
( b ) various amount of dbd , dbd - mr , dbd - n or dbd - c plasmid be transfected with 0.1 μg of 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
the reporter activity in the presence of the pcdna3 vector ( pcdna3 ) be designate a 1 .
error bar represent standard error of mean .
( c ) dbd - w404a and dbd - g453a be co-transfected into hek293t cell with 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
fold repression be calculate a the fold decrease in luciferase activity compare with dbd - mr .
error bar represent standard deviation .
( d ) various amount of dbd - tail or dbd - sam be transfected with 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
error bar represent standard error of mean .
( e ) pcdna3 or dbd - mr ( 5 μg ) be co-transfected into y79 retinoblastoma cell with 0.5 μg of 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
the reporter activity in the presence of pcdna3 be designate a 1 .
error bar represent standard deviation .
asterisk mark statistically significant difference ( student 's t test : p < 0.03 ) .
( f ) alignment of the c - terminal region for mouse , rat , human , chick and zebrafish mr - s protein .
conserve amino acid residue be show with a dark shadow .
take together , our finding suggest that dbd - mr function a a transcriptional repressor and that the repression activity of mr - s be not due to a homophilic interaction through it sam domain but to the c - terminal region ( amino acid 463 to 542 ) .
discussion
in the present study , we identify a novel gene , mr - s , which be predominantly express in retinal photoreceptors and the pineal gland .
the peak of mr - s expression in the develop retina be around p6 .
this expression pattern correlate with the rapid increase of crx , rhodopsin and other photoreceptor gene around p6 - p8 .
around p6 , the out plexiform layer become visible and the out layer of retina separate into two layer , onl and inl .
at the same time , photoreceptors begin to undergo terminal differentiation , form the out segment .
we therefore hypothesize that mr - s be a key molecule in the late development of photoreceptors .
we previously report that otx2 and crx have a critical role in photoreceptor development and that otx2 directly regulate crx transcription [ 3 , 9 ] .
in situ hybridization and rt - pcr show significant reduction of mr - s signal in the crx ko retina and pineal gland .
furthermore , the luciferase assay demonstrate that otx2 and crx may directly upregulate the transcription of mr - s in mammalian cell .
in retinal photoreceptor cell , the otx2 transcript be not highly expressed at p6 - p9 , while the crx transcript be strongly detect around p6 .
therefore , our result strongly suggest that mr - s transcription be directly regulate by crx .
in the present study , nrl , a photoreceptor - specific transcription factor that be highly express in photoreceptors at the postnatal stage , do not affect the transcription of mr - s .
this finding be actually consistent with the analysis of the nrl ko mouse which be recently report [ 40 ] .
the expression profile of wild - type and nrl ko retina at p2 , p10 and 2 month be analyze and mr - s be not include in 161 differentially express gene in the nrl ko retina .
previous report suggest that the sam domain be a protein - protein interaction module .
the sam domain of the mr - s protein be closely relate to that of ph and tel , whose sam domain can form a helical , head - to - tail polymeric structure and mediate the formation of a high order chromatin structure .
to characterize the biochemical function of mr - s , we perform yeast two - hybrid screening use full - length mr - s a the bait .
a a result , the most frequent positive clone ( 5 / 28 ) in the screening be the cdna fragment contain the sam domain of mr - s .
this strongly suggest that mr - s self - associate through it sam domain .
an immunoprecipitation assay , use two site - direct mutant of the sam domain of mr - s , demonstrate that the mr - s protein can self - associate through it sam domain in mammalian cell .
while we do not address the question whether the sam domain of mr - s form a polymeric structure in the present study , the phylogenetic analysis of sam domain of mr - s and other sam domain - contain molecule suggest that mr - s can form head - to - tail polymer and mediate gene silencing by spread repressive complex along the chromatin similar to ph and / or tel .
although our result in the immunoprecipitation assay demonstrate that the n - terminal construct lack a sam domain still interact with each other , these result do not fit into the head - to - tail polymer model .
we can not exclude the possibility that the result protein - protein interaction of mr - s be an artifact of the overexpression condition .
the issue of whether or not mr - s form a polymer await future analysis .
a previous report indicate that tel contain a sequence - specific dna bind domain , namely the ets domain , and bind to specific site via it ets domain [ 41 ] .
tel could serve to nucleate a polymer , which would spread by oligomerization of the sam domain .
in contrast to tel , ph do not contain an obvious sequence - specific dna bind motif ( 16 ) .
therefore , it initial binding to the template may require protein - protein interaction with other sequence - specific transcriptional repressor .
the segmentation gene - encode transcriptional repressor such a hunchback have a role in recruit sam domain - contain pcg protein , which can spread along the template via polymerization [ 42 ] .
since mr - s do not contain obvious dna bind motif , we suppose that there be a sequence - specific transcription factor ( s ) which interact with mr - s .
however , we do not find any transcription factor in the present yeast two - hybrid screening .
we also find that full - length mr - s fuse to the gal4 dna bind domain ( dbd - mr ) function a a transcriptional repressor .
this may support the idea that mr - s be involve in repressive complex similar to other sam domain - contain protein .
our result , however , show that the self - association of mr - s through it sam domain be not essential for the transcriptional repressive activity .
polymerization of the sam domain have be previously report to be essential for the repressive function of ph and tel [ 43 , 44 ] .
on the other hand , human lethal ( 3 ) malignant brain tumor ( h - l ( 3 ) mbt ) protein , which also contain a sam domain at the c - terminus , be report a a transcriptional repressor and the repressor activity of h - l ( 3 ) mbt require mainly the presence of the mbt repeat but not the sam domain [ 45 ] .
to determine the transcriptional repressor region of the mr - s protein , we perform a luciferase assay use site - direct mutant ( dbd - w404a and dbd - g453a ) .
the result show that the reduce binding ability of self - association partially compromise the transcriptional repressive activity of mr - s ( fig. 7d ) .
however , the repressive effect be more significant when dbd - tail , which do not contain sam domain , be co-introduced with the 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid .
therefore , we conclude that a region from amino acid 463 to 542 be mainly responsible for the repressor activity in the case of mr - s .
evolutionary conservation of the c - terminal 80 aa region of mr - s from zebrafish through human may underlie the functional importance of this region .
two distinct multiprotein pcg complex , prc1 and prc2 , have be identify .
prc2 be involve in the initiation of silencing and contain histone deacetylases ( hdacs ) and histone methyltransferases , which can methylate histone h3 lysine 9 and 27 , mark of silence chromatin .
prc1 , include ph , recognize the histone h3 lysine 27 mark set by prc2 and maintain a stable state of gene repression in which prc1 block chromatin remodeling by the trithorax group - relate swi - snf complex [ 46 , 47 ] .
therefore , the mechanism of repression by prc2 be think to be hdac - dependent while the mechanism of repression by prc1 appear to be hdac - independent .
our luciferase assay also show that transcriptional repression of dbd - mr be not affect by the addition of various concentration of trichostatin a , a potent hdac inhibitor ( data not show ) .
therefore , we speculate that the mechanism of repression of mr - s may be hdac - independent and more similar to that of prc1 complex .
in the present study , the biochemical experiment demonstrate that the mr - s protein function a a transcriptional repressor and possibly down - regulate the spatial and temporal expression of the target gene during retinal photoreceptor development .
our data also reveal that the repressive activity of mr - s be mainly due to the c - terminal region ( amino acid 463 to 542 ) .
however , downstream target of mr - s still remain unclear .
in situ hybridization show that the peak of mr - s expression be around p6 , when retinal photoreceptors undergo terminal differentiation .
we hypothesize that the target gene of mr - s might be non-photoreceptor gene .
in this case , mr - s may suppress the expression of non-photoreceptor gene in rod and cone photoreceptors .
there may be another possibility that mr - s be involve in cell fate determination of rod photoreceptors versus cone photoreceptors .
while cone photoreceptors be bear during the early embryonic stage of mouse retinogenesis , rod photoreceptors be bear primarily in the late embryonic and early postnatal period [ 48 ] .
the expression pattern of mr - s may suggest that mr - s be express in rod photoreceptors but not in cone photoreceptors as well a nr2e3 , which be know a a transcriptional repressor and be think to down - regulate cone photoreceptor - specific gene .
to clarify the biological function of mr - s , analysis of mouse with target disruption of mr - s will be very important .
conclusion
here we identify mouse mr - s , which be predominantly express in retinal photoreceptors and the pineal gland .
mr - s be evolutionarily conserve from zebrafish through to human , suggest a significant role of mr - s in photoreceptor development .
our present data suggest that mr - s protein localize in the nucleus and can self - associate mainly through the sam domain .
moreover , mr - s protein fuse to gal4 dbd function a a transcriptional repressor .
the repressive activity of mr - s be due to it c - terminal region ( amino acid 463 to 542 ) .
take together , mr - s be a novel repressor molecule possibly involve in the development of retinal photoreceptors and pineal gland .
method
isolation of mouse mr - s cdna
we use the bioinformatics method digital differential display ( ncbi , unigene ) to screen novel mouse gene express preferentially in the retina .
some of the cluster in the unigene database be mainly from mouse retinal cdna .
one clone in these cluster ( # mm. 246385 ) have a weak homology with the polyhomeotic family gene .
a 735 - bp cdna fragment of this clone , encode amino acid 140 – 384 be amplify by rt - pcr from mouse p0 retinal cdna .
this fragment be use a the probe for library screening , in situ hybridization and northern hybridization .
a mouse p0 - p3 retinal cdna library be screen use this mouse cdna fragment .
positive bacteriophage clone be isolate and the full - length mr - s fragment be insert into pbluescriptii ( stratagene ) .
dna sequencing be perform on both strand by the cycle sequencing method .
the nucleotide sequence for mr - s gene have be deposit in the genbank database under genbank accession number # ay458844 .
in situ hybridization
the 735 - bp cdna fragment of mr - s amplify by rt - pcr be use a a probe for in situ hybridization .
in situ hybridization be perform a describe previously [ 49 ] .
cell culture and transfection
hek293t cell be maintain at 37 °c in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium ( dmem ) supplement with 10 % fetal bovine serum ( sigma ) , 100 iu / ml penicillin and 100 μg / ml streptomycin .
transient transfection of hek293t cell be carry out use calcium phosphate method or fugene6 transfection reagent ( roche ) .
y79 retinoblastoma cell be maintain in iscove 's modify dulbecco 's medium with 4 mm l - glutamine adjust to contain 1.5 g / l sodium bicarbonate , 20 % fbs .
transient transfection be carry out use transit lt1 ( mirus ) .
northern - blot analysis
rna be extract from the tissue of adult mouse use trizol ( invitrogen ) .
a 5 μg of total rna be electrophoresed in a 1.0 % agarose - formaldehyde gel and transfer to a nylon membrane ( zeta - probe gt , bio - rad ) .
the 735 - bp cdna fragment encode the sam domain of mr - s be use a a probe for hybridization .
hybridization be perform accord to the manufacturer 's protocol .
wash with increase stringency be perform , the last be at 50 °c in 0.1 × standard saline citrate / 0.1 % sodium dodecyl sulfate ( sd ) .
rt - pcr analysis
total rna be isolate from each tissue use trizol .
a 1 μg of total rna be reverse transcribe use superscriptii ( invitrogen ) .
rt - pcr primer , which span intron , for detection of mr - s cdna be 5 ' - tgtccagcccagccaacccaaggagacgaca - 3 ' and 5 ' - tgtggtctcctcatcagtgaaga - 3 ' .
product size be 292 bp ( position 965 – 1256 of genbank accession number # ay458844 ) .
primer pair for mouse g3pdh be 5 ' - accacagtccatgccatcac - 3 ' and 5 ' - tccaccaccctgttgctgta - 3 ' which amplify a 452 - bp product ( position 587 – 1038 of genbank accession number # bc85275 ) .
yeast two - hybrid screening and gal4 assay
we carry out yeast two - hybrid experiment use the matchmaker gal4 two - hybrid system 3 ( bd bioscience ) a recommend by the manufacturer .
we clone the full - length mr - s into the pgbkt7 vector and use it to screen a library of mouse p0 - p3 retinal cdna in the pgadt7 vector .
transformants that confer growth be pick , isolate and re-introduce with the bait into ah109 to confirm interaction .
plasmid dna be isolate from yeast use rpm yeast plasmid isolation kit ( qbiogene ) .
in order to confirm the protein interaction , single colony be pick and grow individually in synthetic complete medium lack leucine , tryptophan and contain x - gal .
after 4 – 5 day , x - gal positive clone be select and analyze .
to test self - interaction of mr - s , we subcloned the full - length , n - terminus ( amino acid 1 – 400 ) and c - terminus ( amino acid 391 – 542 ) of mr - s into pgbkt7 and pgadt7 vector .
we assess interaction by score blue color on plate of medium contain x - gal .
immunoprecipitation assay
for immunoprecipitation assay , 4 × hemagglutinin ( ha ) or 3 × flag tag cdna fragment encode full - length mr - s ( full - ha and flag - mr ) , a cdna fragment encode amino acid 1 – 400 ( δsam - ha and flag - δsam ) , and a cdna fragment encode amino acid 400 – 542 ( flag - sam ) be subcloned into the pcdna3 ( invitrogen ) expression vector .
we also construct two site - direct mutant , flag - w404a and flag - g453a , use pcr .
each of these mutation be also introduce into flag - mr - s .
we transfected hek293t cell with 5 μg of plasmid dna per 6 cm dish by calcium phosphate method .
approximately 48 hr after transfection , cell be harvest in immunoprecipitation buffer ( 50 mm tris - hcl [ ph 7.5 ] , 1 mm edta , 2 mm mgcl2 , 150 mm nacl , 1 mm phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride [ wako ] , 1 % nonidet p - 40 , 10 % glycerol ) in the presence of protease inhibitor cocktail tablet ( roche ) .
for each reaction , 1 mg of cell lysate be mix with 0.5 μg of anti-flag antibody ( sigma , f3165 ) and 15 μl of protein g - sepharose ( amersham ) on a rotate wheel at 4 °c for 2 hr .
protein concentration be determine by the bca protein assay system ( pierce ) .
the bead be then wash three time with immunoprecipitation buffer and follow by three time with wash buffer ( 50 mm tris - hcl [ ph 7.5 ] , 150 mm nacl , 20 mm mgcl2 ) .
protein be then boil for 5 min in sd sample buffer ( 1 % sd , 1 mm tris [ ph 6.8 ] , 40 mm dtt , 4 % glycerol , 0.01 % pyronine y ) .
the supernatant be fractionate by sodium dodecyl sulfate - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis ( sd - page ) and transfer to the nitrocellulose membrane ( trans - blot transfer medium , bio - rad ) .
western blotting be perform with rabbit polyclonal anti-ha antibody ( santa cruz , # sc - 805 ) .
signal be detect with horseradish peroxidase - conjugate goat anti-rabbit igg and ecl plus western blotting detection system ( amersham ) .
subcellular localization analysis
we transfected the plasmid encode ha - tag full - length mr - s into hek293t cell , seed cell on coverslips coat with collagen 48 hr after transfection , fix with 4 % paraformaldehyde in phosphate - buffer saline ( pb ) at room temperature for 20 min , and wash with pb .
then we permeabilized cell in pb contain 0.1 % triton x - 100 for 15 min , wash again with pb , and incubate in pb contain 0.1 % bovine serum albumin ( bsa ) for 30 min at room temperature .
we incubate cell with anti-ha antibody overnight at 4 °c ( 1 : 200 in pb contain 0.2 % bsa ) .
the follow day , we wash cell three time with pb and incubate with a cy3 - conjugate goat igg against rabbit igg ( 1 : 400 in pb , jackson immunoreseach laboratory ) for 30 min .
we rinse cell three time with pb , follow by observation use a confocal microscope fv300 ( olympus ) equip with a 60 × objective lens .
luciferase assay
for transcriptional analysis of the 1.2 - kb promoter region of mr - s , we construct a reporter plasmid ( pro1.2k ) by subcloning a 1.2 - kb upstream genomic fragment of mr - s gene into a pgl3 luciferase reporter plasmid ( promega ) .
the expression vector be construct by subcloning full - length crx , otx2 , nrl gene into a pmik expression vector ( a gift from dr. k. maruyama ) , respectively .
for the " mut1259 " vector , the crx binding site at the - 1259 bp position be mutate by replace ggatta with agatct .
for the " mut198 " vector , the crx binding site at the - 198 bp position be mutate by replace taatcc with gaattc .
for the " mut72 " vector , the crx binding site at the - 72 bp position be mutate by replace ggatta with gaattc .
for the " mut all " vector , all of three crx binding site be mutate .
5xgal4 - pgl3 control reporter plasmid , which contain five copy of the gal4 dna recognition sequence position immediately upstream of sv40 minimal promoter , be kindly gift from dr. t. noguchi and use for analysis of the transcriptional activity of mr - s [ 50 ] .
to generate effector plasmid , various deletion fragment be produce by pcr reaction and subcloned into pgbkt7 vector , respectively .
these fragment be digest with the sequence , which encode gal4 dna binding domain , and insert into pcdna3 .
we transfected 0.1 μg of reporter plasmid dna and 2 μg of the expression vector dna per 6 cm dish into hek293t cell use fugene6 transfection reagent .
we analyze luciferase activity 48 hr after transfection .
list of abbreviation
crx , cone - rod homeobox ; otx2 , orthodenticle - relate homeobox 2 ; trβ2 , thyroid hormone receptor beta 2 ; nrl , neural retina leucine zipper ; nr2e3 , nuclear receptor subfamily 2 group e member 3 ; est , express sequence tag ; ephb2 , ephrin receptor b2 ; epha4 , ephrin receptor a4 ; tel , translocation ets leukemia .
author ' contribution
ti and kt perform most of the experiment , interpret the data and write the first draft of the manuscript .
af prepare retinal tissue and their section of wild - type and crx mutant mouse .
ck perform luciferase assay use y79 retinoblastoma cell .
yt , ma and tf have make substantial contribution to conception and design of the experiment and drafting of the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
we thank t. noguchi for 5xgal4 - pgl3 reporter plasmid ; a. nishida for discussion and critical reading of the manuscript ; a. yoshimura for advice on confocal microscopy ; a. tani , y. kambara , m. murai , y. hirao and h. yoshii for technical assistance .
this work be support by precursory research for embryonic science and technology ( presto ) , dynamic of development system molecular brain science , grant - in aid for scientific research ( b ) , senri life science foundation , and uehara foundation .
ablation of the sam68 rna binding protein protect mouse from age - relate bone loss
abstract
the src substrate associate in mitosis of 68 kda ( sam68 ) be a kh - type rna binding protein that have be show to regulate several aspect of rna metabolism ; however , it physiologic role have remain elusive .
herein we report the generation of sam68 - null mouse by homologous recombination .
age sam68 − / − mouse preserve their bone mass , in sharp contrast with 12 - month - old wild - type littermates in which bone mass be decrease up to approximately 75 % .
in fact , the bone volume of the 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse be virtually indistinguishable from that of 4 - month - old wild - type or sam68 − / − mouse .
sam68 − / − bone marrow stromal cell have a differentiation advantage for the osteogenic pathway .
moreover , the knockdown of sam68 use short hairpin rna in the embryonic mesenchymal multipotential progenitor c3h10t1 / 2 cell result in more pronounce expression of the mature osteoblast marker osteocalcin when differentiation be induce with bone morphogenetic protein - 2 .
culture of mouse embryo fibroblast generate from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − littermates be induce to differentiate into adipocytes with culture medium contain pioglitazone and the sam68 − / − mouse embryo fibroblast show to have impair adipocyte differentiation .
furthermore , in vivo it be show that section of bone from 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse have few marrow adipocytes compare with their age - match wild - type littermate control , which exhibit fatty bone marrow .
our finding identify endogenous sam68 a a positive regulator of adipocyte differentiation and a negative regulator of osteoblast differentiation , which be consistent with sam68 be a modulator of bone marrow mesenchymal cell differentiation , and hence bone metabolism , in aged mouse .
synopsis
osteoporosis be a debilitate bone disease that be characterize by reduce bone mass and microarchitectural damage , which result in increase bone fragility and susceptibility to fracture .
peak bone mass , which be achieve by the age of 30 in human , have be identify a a major determinant of resistance or susceptibility to osteoporosis .
the author generate mouse deficient for the sam68 rna binding protein , a protein of unknown physiologic function .
the mouse develop normally and be protect against bone loss during aging .
age - relate bone loss have long be associate with an increase in marrow adipocytes , which be derive from the same mesenchymal lineage a osteoblast in bone marrow .
the author show that sam68 regulate the differentiation of this mesenchymal lineage , such that in it absence , osteoblast continue to be generate in age bone , lead to preservation of bone mass .
this study identify a physiologic role for sam68 a a modulator of the bone marrow stem cell niche and hence of bone metabolism .
the data identify sam68 a a potential therapeutic target for the prevention and treatment of age - relate bone loss .
introduction
during skeletal development , the anabolic activity of osteoblast [ 1 ] be favor over the catabolic activity of osteoclast [ 2 ] , which result in a net gain in bone mass .
at skeletal maturity , bone mass be maintain through the balance activity of osteoblast and osteoclast during the remodeling cycle .
during skeletal aging , there be a shift in the balance that favor osteoclast over osteoblast activity , which result in net bone loss [ 3 ] .
the amount and rate at which bone be gain during development and lose during aging be determine in large part by genetics [ 4 – 6 ] but also by physical activity and by alteration in the availability and response of bone cell to circulate hormone [ 7 – 9 ] and locally derive growth factor [ 10 , 11 ] .
whereas genetic - base study have provide novel insight into the pathway that regulate bone development [ 12 – 14 ] , relatively little be know about the etiology of age - relate bone loss .
increase bone resorption in elderly men and woman be associate with a reduction in bone mass and an increase in circulate level of bone biomarkers [ 15 ] .
these change have be attribute primarily to nutritional deficit result in alteration in the parathyroid hormone – vitamin d axis [ 16 ] , to gonadal hormone deficiency [ 17 ] , to leptin level and the sympathetic nervous system [ 8 , 18 – 20 ] , and to alteration in bone cell apoptosis [ 21 ] .
bone loss in the elderly have also be attribute to alteration in the response of bone marrow stromal cell to their microenvironment that favor differentiation down the adipocyte lineage rather than the osteoblast lineage [ 22 ] .
aging have long be associate with an increase in marrow fat , where the generation of adipocytes be favor over osteoblast [ 23 ] .
osteoblast and adipocytes be derive from a common mesenchymal precursor cell present in bone marrow , and the factor that control this age - induce switch toward adipogenic differentiation be not well understand [ 24 ] .
while several transcriptional regulatory protein have be associate with cell fate determination of bone marrow mesenchymal cell , include peroxisome proliferator – activate receptor γ ( pparγ ) and klf5 [ 25 – 30 ] , the role of rna binding protein in this process remain unknown .
rna binding protein of the kh type be known regulator of cellular differentiation .
for example , expression defect in the kh domain protein nova and fmrp be know to cause paraneoplastic neurologic disorder [ 31 ] and the fragile x syndrome , respectively , in human [ 32 ] .
the phenotype of the quaking viable mouse suggest a role for the quaking rna binding protein in oligodendrocyte and myelination [ 33 ] .
indeed , the ectopic expression of the qki - 6 / 7 isoforms in vivo lead to the formation of glial cell rather than neuron from neural progenitor , demonstrate it role in cell fate determination [ 34 ] .
the loss of gld - 1 protein in caenorhabditis elegans prevent the appearance of stem cell [ 35 ] , and the absence of the kh domain protein how in drosophila prevent muscle differentiation and result in fly with hold - out - wing [ 36 , 37 ] .
the src substrate associate in mitosis of 68 kda ( sam68 ) be also a member of the family of kh domain rna binding protein [ 38 ] ; however , it physiologic role have remain undefined .
sam68 be identify a an sh3 and sh2 domain interact protein for src family kinase and be also a known substrate of src kinase [ 39 – 42 ] and of the breast tumor kinase [ 43 ] .
sam68 have be show to facilitate the export of unspliced hiv rna [ 44 ] and to regulate pre-mrna processing [ 45 ] .
in the present paper , we report the generation of sam68 − / − mouse and analysis of their skeletal phenotype .
our data indicate that the absence of sam68 confer resistance to age - relate bone loss in mouse such that old sam68 have a high bone mass than their wild - type littermates .
we provide evidence that sam68 regulate the differentiation of bone marrow stromal cell by show that cell isolate from sam68 − / − animal have enhance osteogenic activity and decrease adipogenic activity than those harvest from wild - type littermates .
furthermore , sam68 − / − mouse embryo fibroblast ( mefs ) be impair in their capacity to differentiate into adipocytes , consistent with sam68 be a regulator of bone marrow mesenchymal cell differentiation .
these result also characterize a new animal model to study bone metabolism , regeneration , and repair during aging .
result
sam68 be express in the develop skeleton of embryonic mouse
the sam68 mrna be know to be widely express [ 38 ] , whereas it pattern of protein expression in vivo remain to be define .
section of paraffin - embed wild - type e14.5 and e16.5 embryonic mouse be immunostained with the well - characterize ad1 anti-sam68 antibody , raise in rabbit against an immunize peptide that correspond to amino acid 330 to 348 of the mouse sam68 protein [ 46 ] .
sam68 immunoreactivity be observe in the skeleton and soft tissue of develop wild - type mouse at e14.5 and e16.5 ( figure 1 ) .
intense staining be see in the nucleus of cell in the develop brain , heart , and small intestine ( figure 1b ) , as well a in chondrocytes in the nasal septum and the glandular tissue adjacent to the nasal cartilage ( figure 1c , panel a – d ) , in the vertebra and intervertebral disc ( panel e – h ) and in the epiphysis ( panel i – k ) and metaphysis ( panel l ) of long bone .
nuclear staining be observe in proliferate chondrocytes and hypertrophic chondrocytes ( figure 1c , panel h ) , in osteoblast ( panel l ; dataset s1 ) , and in osteoclast ( dataset s1 ) .
no staining be observe with preimmune serum or when the antiserum be preadsorbed with the immunize peptide ( figure 1c , panel b , f , and j ) .
take together , these data demonstrate that sam68 protein be selectively express in the develop mouse embryo , with particularly elevate expression in cartilage and bone .
sam68 be not essential for mouse development
to define the physiologic role of sam68 , we generate sam68 - deficient mouse by target disruption of exon 4 and 5 of the sam68 gene , which encode the functional region of the kh - type rna binding domain ( figure 2a ) .
the integrity of the target allele be verify by southern blot analysis ( figure 2b ) and by pcr of genomic dna ( unpublished data ) .
sam68 transcript encode by exon 1 to 5 be absent a evidence by rt - pcr ( dataset s2 ) , and sam68 − / − mouse be devoid of sam68 protein , a visualize by immunoblotting with anti-sam68 ad1 and sc - 333 antibody or control normal rabbit serum or anti-sam68 ad1 preabsorbed with peptide ( figure 2c ) .
sc - 333 be a rabbit anti-sam68 antibody that be raise against the c - terminal 20 amino acid of sam68 [ 47 ] .
these data confirm the generation of a mouse deficient in sam68 .
the genotype of offspring from heterozygote intercrosses exhibit a mendelian segregation at e18.5 ( table 1 ) .
despite the lack of visible deformity , many of the sam68 − / − pup die at birth of unknown cause .
sam68 + / - mouse be phenotypically normal and sam68 − / − pup that survive the perinatal period invariably live to old age .
despite evidence that sam68 mrna be widely express and phosphorylated in mitosis [ 41 , 42 ] , the sam68 − / − mouse do not develop tumor and show no immunologic or other major illness .
sam68 − / − mouse do , however , have difficulty breed due to male infertility and the female rarely provide adequate care to their young .
sam68 deficiency protect mouse from age - relate bone loss
src null animal be know to have bone metabolism defect [ 48 ] , and since sam68 be a substrate of src , we decide to analyze the sam68 mouse for skeletal abnormality .
cohort of sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse be euthanized at 4 and 12 month of age for skeletal phenotyping .
to minimize difference in the bone phenotype that might arise secondary to gender or weight difference , we select age - match female mouse for these analysis .
the female mouse demonstrate similar increase in body weight , although 4 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse weigh less than sam68 + / + mouse , and similar change in bone length in the axial and appendicular skeleton between 4 and 12 month of age ( table 2 ) .
faxitron radiography ( faxitron x - ray corporation , wheeling , illinois , united state ) ( figure 3a ) and micro–computed tomography ( ct ) ( figure 3b ) reveal significant cortical thinning ( arrow ) and a reduction in metaphyseal bone ( asterisk ) in the distal femur of 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse compare with 4 - month - old mouse of either genotype and 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse .
similar reduction in trabecular bone be show by faxitron and micro-ct in the fifth lumbar vertebra of the 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse but not in the sam68 − / − mouse ( unpublished data ) .
total body bone mineral content ( bmc ) , quantify with a lunar piximus mouse densitometer ( ge - lunar , madison , wisconsin , united state ) , increase in both sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse between 4 month and 12 month of age , but only reach significance in the sam68 − / − mouse ( table 2 ) .
similarly , a great increase in bmc be see in the femur and vertebra in the sam68 − / − mouse .
bone mineral density ( bmd ) remain constant or decrease in the wild type mouse but increase significantly in the total body and in the femoral and vertebral region of interest in the sam68 − / − ( table 2 ) .
these data show that sam68 − / − mouse continue to thrive and accrue bone in the axial and appendicular skeleton for long than 12 month .
this be in contrast to the situation in age - match , littermate control in which a significant amount of bone be lose over the same timeframe .
three - dimensional architecture of bone be preserve in age sam68 − / − mouse
bone loss and compromise architecture be characteristic feature of the skeleton of aged c57bl / 6 mouse and resemble the clinical feature of age - relate bone loss in human that can predispose an individual to fracture .
quantification of the micro-ct data show in figure 3b confirm the reduction in bone volume compare with tissue volume ( bv / tv ; figure 4a , left ) in the 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse ( hatch bar ) compare with 4 - month - old mouse of both genotype ( solid bar ) and 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse ( stipple bar ) .
this be associate with a significant increase ( p < 0.01 ; denote by the asterisk ) in the structure model index , which measure the ratio of plate - like to rod - like structure ( figure 4a , right ) .
a quantifiable increase in the mean trabecular separation ( tb.sp ) ( unpublished data ) in 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse be due to an increase in the percentage of space fall in the range of 350 to 700 μm ( figure 4b , red hatch line ) .
trabecular thickness remain constant among the different group of mouse ( unpublished data ) .
in effect , this mean that there be few trabecula , rather than equivalent number of thin trabecula , in the 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse compare with any of the other group of mouse .
bone remodeling be preserve in age sam68 − / − mouse
to far define the mechanism involve in the preservation of bone mass in aged sam68 − / − mouse , we prepare section from plastic - embed femur and tibia to evaluate osteoblast and osteoclast activity ( figure 5 ) .
in situ enzyme histochemical staining for alkaline phosphatase ( alp ; brown stain ) activity be use a a biomarker for osteoblast and tartrate - resistant alp ( tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase [ trap ] ; red stain ) activity a a marker for osteoclast .
little difference be see between sam68 + / + ( figure 5a and 5b ) and sam68 − / − ( figure 5c and 5d ) mouse at 4 month of age .
alp - and trap - positive cell be reduce in the 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse ( figure 5e and 5f ) and remain unchanged in 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse ( figure 5g and 5h ) .
the reduction in both osteoblast and osteoclast activity in the 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse argue against bone be lose primarily due to a relative increase in osteoclast over osteoblast activity , a see in high turnover disease [ 49 ] .
histomorphometric analysis [ 50 ] of the long bone ( table 3 ) corroborate the radiologic evidence of age - relate bone loss .
bone volume ( bv / tv ) , newly form osteoid ( ov / tv ) , and mineral apposition rate ( mar ) be all significantly reduce in 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse compare with 4 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse .
these reduction be associate with a significant increase in marrow fat ( fv / tv ) and decrease number of osteoblast ( nob / tv ) and osteoclast ( noc / tv ) per tissue volume ( table 3 ) .
these result be in contrast to those of the 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse in which all histomorphometric parameter , include marrow fat , resemble those of young mouse of either genotype ( table 3 ) .
when cell be express a a function of the bone perimeter ( nob / bp , noc / bp ) , there be no statistical difference and the ratio of osteoblast to osteoclast be similar in all group of mouse ( table 3 ) .
circulate level of serum c - telopeptide ( sctx ; roche diagnostics , mannheim , germany ) and alp show little difference among the group , except for a small decrease in 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse and ( dataset s3 ) .
serum estrogen be significantly decrease in all 12 - month - old mouse regardless of genotype with a reciprocal increase in interleukin - 6 level ( dataset s3 ) .
give the involvement of leptin in regulate body and bone mass , serum leptin be measure in sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse .
twelve - month - old sam68 − / − mouse have significantly low level than young and old sam68 + / + mouse and young sam68 − / − mouse ( dataset s3 ) .
take together , these observation suggest that preservation of bone mass in the sam68 − / − mouse be not due primarily to alter estrogen status but could have be influence by difference in circulate leptin level .
osteoblast , but not osteoclast , activity be alter in sam68 − / − mouse ex vivo
maintenance of bone mass during the adult remodeling cycle be dependent on the coupling of osteoblast to osteoclast activity , such that there be no net gain or loss of bone [ 49 ] .
to far explore the age - relate advantage of sam68 − / − mouse with respect to bone preservation , we examine the functional activity of sam68 − / − osteoblast and osteoclast ex vivo ( figure 6a and 6b ) .
culture of bone marrow stromal cell harvest from 4 - week - old sam68 − / − mouse and maintain for 18 day in osteoblast differentiation medium demonstrate more intense staining for alp at 6 day ( unpublished data ) and 18 day ( figure 6a ) , and more mineralize nodule at 18 day , than the sam68 + / + mouse , even though similar amount of fibroblast colony - form unit ( cfu - f ) be observe ( figure 6a and unpublished data ) .
rt - pcr analysis of molecular marker of osteoblast differentiation ( dataset s2 ) reveal similar increase over time in rna from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse , although type i collagen appear to be up - regulate at both timepoints in the sam68 − / − mouse .
short - term culture of mature osteoclast release from the crushed long bone of sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse stain equally well for trap and excavate approximately equal number of pit of equal size in dentin slice , a visualize by scan electron microscopy ( figure 6b ) .
these finding suggest that the osteoclast may not be the primary defect in sam68 − / − mouse , a they be in src null mouse [ 48 ] .
the absence of sam68 prevent adipocyte differentiation and promote osteoblast differentiation
it be well recognize that bone marrow stromal cell give rise to both osteoblast and adipocytes and that age - relate bone loss be accompany by an increase in differentiation down the adipocyte lineage [ 22 ] .
therefore , the loss of sam68 could influence the bone marrow stromal cell to differentiate along the osteogenic versus the adipogenic pathway .
alternatively , the loss of sam68 could indirectly regulate bone mass a a general disturbance of neuroendocrine control a be show when leptin and the sympathetic nervous system axis be show to negatively regulate bone mass [ 8 ] .
to confirm a role for sam68 in the regulation of adipocyte differentiation , we isolate primary mefs from 14.5 - day - old sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − embryo .
the primary sam68 − / − mefs be differentiate into adipocytes in vitro in culture medium contain 5 μm pioglitazone to induce adipogenesis .
cell at day 0 , 4 , 6 , and 12 be stain with oil red o to monitor adipogenesis .
adipogenesis be more pronounced in the wild - type mefs culture than in the sam68 − / − mefs , consistent with the positive role of endogenous sam68 in adipocyte differentiation ( figure 7 ) .
the expression of key transcription factor include the pparγ and klf5 be impair in sam68 − / − differentiate mefs compare with sam68 + / + mefs , consistent with impair adipogenesis in the absence of sam68 ( figure 7 ) .
these data , together with data confirm a lean phenotype in sam68 − / − mouse ( n. torabi and s. richard , unpublished data ) , support the hypothesis that sam68 modulate the differentiation of mesenchymal cell .
to far examine this phenotype in a cell autonomous system , we choose the embryonic mesenchymal multipotential progenitor cell c3h10t1 / 2 .
the addition of bmp - 2 induce osteoblast differentiation , a evidence by an approximately 400-fold increase in expression of the osteocalcin ( ocn ) gene [ 51 ] .
population of c3h10t1 / 2 cell stably transfected with either psuper - retro ( control ) and psuper - retro harbor a short hairpin against sam68 ( sam68sh ) be select with puromycin .
the expression of sam68 be reduce by approximately 80 % a evidence by immunoblot analysis use β - actin a a loading control ( figure 8a ) .
osteoblast differentiation be induce in culture express psuper - retro or psuper - retro sam68sh by addition of bmp - 2 to the culture medium . .
the expression of ocn and β - actin mrna be examine by semiquantitative rt - pcr and the sam68sh - express cell display a more pronounced osteoblast phenotype compare with control cell , a assess by the expression of ocn ( figure 8b ) .
give the apparent enhancement of mineralize nodule formation by sam68 − / − bone marrow stromal cell ex vivo and the phenotype observe with short hairpin rna ( shrna ) - treat c3h10t1 / 2 , we stain section of bone from 4 - and 12 - month - old mouse for evidence of change in marrow adiposity .
figure 9 show section of undecalcified bone from 4 - and 12 - month - old sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse stain with von kossa and toluidine blue to show mineralize tissue ( figure 9a , black ) and marrow adipocytes ( figure 9b , white ) and leave unstained to show fluorochrome labeling of the mineralization front ( figure 9c ) .
twelve - month - old sam68 + / + mouse show a noticeable decrease in trabecular bone ( figure 9a ) , which be associate with a significant increase in marrow adiposity ( figure 9b ) and with the two fluorochrome label superimpose upon one another ( figure 9c ) .
in contrast , the bone of 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse appear similar to those of the 4 - month - old mouse of either genotype .
these data demonstrate that sam68 regulate the differentiation of bone marrow mesenchymal cell to promote adipocyte differentiation and inhibit osteoblast differentiation in age bone .
discussion
the present study provide evidence that a physiologic role of sam68 be to modulate bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell .
young sam68 − / − mouse develop normally and contain similar bone mass compare with wild - type littermates .
age ( 12 month ) sam68 − / − mouse display a high bone mass phenotype compare with sam68 + / + littermates .
the wild - type littermates undergo age - relate bone loss that occur naturally in mammal , while the sam68 − / − animal preserve their bone mass with aging .
the differentiation of bone marrow stem cell isolate from sam68 − / − mouse and embryonic mesenchymal multipotential progenitor cell c3h10t1 / 2 treat with sam68 shrna result in a more pronounced osteoblast differentiation .
these finding demonstrate that the loss of sam68 enhance osteoblast differentiation .
the converse be also true , a mefs isolate from sam68 − / − animal be impair in their ability to undergo adipocyte differentiation compare with sam68 + / + mefs .
these finding suggest that a physiologic role for sam68 be to regulate the balance between adipogenic and osteogenic differentiation of the bone marrow mesenchymal .
sam68 protein expression be observe throughout the develop mouse embryo , in keep with previous report that identify the sam68 mrna to be widely express [ 38 ] .
we observe sam68 staining in the brain , heart , and intestine ( see figure 1 ) as well a liver , skin , and kidney ( unpublished data ) of late - stage embryo .
this expression pattern be consistent with previous work that have observe sam68 in neuron [ 52 ] and a a substrate of the intestinal sik / breast tumor kinase [ 43 ] .
the expression of sam68 be not alter in age bone marrow stromal cell or in senescencing wi - 38 cell ( unpublished data ) .
the presence of sam68 in chondrocytes , osteoblast and osteoclast in develop cartilage and bone predict a pivotal role for the protein in skeletal development .
the sam68 − / − mouse be generate use a traditional targeting approach where the functional kh domain be delete and approximately one third of the sam68 − / − mouse survive to adulthood with no apparent defect .
one explanation for this phenomenon be that sam68 function be sub-served by one or more of it family member during development such a slm - 1 and slm - 2 [ 47 ] .
alternatively , sam68 be not require during embryonic development .
however , two third of the sam68 − / − , but not the sam68 + / - pup , be kill by their sam68 + / - mother .
these finding suggest that the mother be able to detect a subtle defect / difference that we can not .
adult sam68 − / − mouse live a normal life span of approximately two year .
the sam68 − / − male be sterile and the sam68 − / − female provide inadequate care to their young , but the pup be not scatter and neglect a observe with fosb − / − mouse [ 53 ] .
serum level of estrogen decrease in age sam68 − / − female a expect ; however , the leptin level decrease in aged sam68 − / − female .
the aged sam68 − / − female be not obese and actually weigh less than the littermate control ( see table 2 ) .
moreover , their appetite be not alter with aging ( n. torabi and s. richard , unpublished data ) , suggest that the observe leptin reduction be not recreate ob / ob - like phenotype relate to weight , appetite and female sterility [ 54 ] .
the skeletal phenotyping of cohort of sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse show that bone mass be preserve in aged sam68 − / − mouse .
traditional histology and histomorphometry suggest that the mechanism involve preservation of osteoblast and osteoclast activity .
the document role of the sam68 regulatory protein , src , in osteopetrosis lead u to investigate the morphology and activity of sam68 − / − osteoclast ex vivo .
the src tyrosine kinase be show to play a role in bone remodeling when src − / − mouse die at 6 month of age with an osteopetrotic phenotype [ 48 ] and the defect be attribute to defective osteoclast function [ 55 − 59 ] .
we therefore culture mature osteoclast harvest from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse ex vivo on dentin slice to quantify their resorptive capacity .
the fact that sam68 − / − osteoclast look and act like sam68 + / + osteoclast ex vivo and in vivo make it unlikely that this be the primary source of the difference in bone metabolism in 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse .
the fact that the ctx level be low in young and old sam68 − / − mouse suggest that there be reduce bone resorption compare with wild - type littermate control .
however , this reduction in bone resorption occur with normal osteoclast activity , a assess by in vitro culturing .
these observation be consistent with the sam68 − / − mouse have a youth - like bone phenotype .
however , it be still possible , that a mild impairment in sam68 − / − mouse osteoclast function may manifest itself later in life in overall accumulation of bone and this will require further detailed study .
ex vivo differentiation of primary bone marrow stromal cell , harvest from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse , down the osteoblast lineage reveal an osteogenic advantage in the culture of cell derive from the sam68 − / − mouse .
it will be important to demonstrate that a similar effect be observe use primary bone marrow stromal cell from aged sam68 − / − mouse .
similar finding be observe when embryonic mesenchymal multipotential progenitor cell c3h10t1 / 2 treat with sam68 shrna , be differentiate into osteoblast with bmp2 .
our finding that aged sam68 − / − mouse do not develop fatty bone marrow and that mefs derive from sam68 − / − mouse have impair adipocyte differentiation , indicate that sam68 regulate both adipocyte and osteoblast differentiation .
these finding identify sam68 a the first rna bind protein to regulate mesenchymal cell differentiation and the challenge will be to identify the specific rna target that it regulate during this process .
the fact that osteoblast function be alter in src − / − mouse [ 60 , 61 ] raise the possibility that preservation of bone mass in the sam68 − / − mouse could be link with and regulate by src .
the pathway by which leptin regulate bone resorption be identify to involve the sympathetic nervous system relay to the osteoblast via the β - adrenergic pathway lead to the release of growth factor include rankl that cause the osteoclast to thrive [ 8 , 18 – 20 ] .
the lowering of leptin level in aged sam68 − / − mouse be consistent with these mouse have a high bone mass compare with their aged littermates .
these data would suggest that the leptin - sympathetic pathway be unaltered in sam68 − / − mouse and that the lowering of leptin may explain the low level of ctx in the serum of sam68 − / − mouse .
these finding suggest that sam68 may be regulate bone metabolism at two different level : ( 1 ) the absence of sam68 result in low leptin level that may reduce bone resorption via the sympathetic nervous system and ( 2 ) the absence of sam68 favor osteoblast , rather than adipocyte , differentiation .
in conclusion , our data define a physiologic role for sam68 in bone metabolism and bone marrow mesenchymal stem cell differentiation .
the bone phenotype observe in sam68 − / − mouse imply that inhibitor of sam68 could prevent age - relate bone loss .
furthermore , the result also suggest that sam68 expression level , hypomorphism , and mutation in human may influence susceptibility to marrow adipocyte accumulation and osteoporosis .
our finding also identify a new animal model to study age bone loss .
material and method
histologic , immunohistochemical , and histomorphometric analysis .
all analysis be perform essentially a describe previously [ 62 , 63 ] .
briefly , embryonic mouse be remove from time pregnant dam at e14.5 and e16.5 and fix intact for 36 h in 4 % paraformaldehyde , rinse thoroughly in pb , and process for paraffin embedding .
serial 4 - μm section be cut on a modify leica rm 2155 rotary microtome ( leica microsystems , richmond hill , ontario , canada ) , stain with a 1 : 600 dilution of the ad1 anti-sam68 antibody [ 46 ] and counterstained with either methyl green or hematoxylin .
adult mouse be give an intraperitoneal injection of 30 mg / kg calcein at 7 day and 30 mg / kg tetracycline at 2 day prior to sacrifice to label actively mineralize surface .
after overnight fixation in 4 % paraformaldehyde and rinse in pb , the left femur and tibia be embed in polymethylmethacrylate ( mma ) or a mixture of 50 % mma and 50 % glycolmethacrylate ( gma ) .
serial 4 - to 6 - μm section of mma - embed tissue be leave unstained or stain with von kossa and toluidine blue or with toluidine blue alone , while 4 - μm mma - gma section be stain for trap and alp activity .
image be capture use a leica dmr microscope ( leica microsystems ) equip with a retiga 1300 camera ( qimaging , burnaby , british columbia , canada ) and the primary histomorphometric data obtain use bioquant nova prime image analysis software ( bioquant image analysis corp , nashville , tennessee , united state ) .
nomenclature and abbreviation conform to those recommend by the american society for bone and mineral research [ 50 ] .
generation of mouse with target disruption of the sam68 gene .
a λ bacteriophage clone encompass sam68 exon 3 to 9 be isolate from a 129 / svj genomic library use full - length sam68 cdna a a probe .
xbai - digest sam68 genomic dna fragment of 4 kb ( encompass exon 4 and part of exon 5 ) and 3kb ( span part of exon 5 and exon 6 ) be subcloned in bluescript sk result in pbs4 and pbs3 , respectively .
a dna fragment be amplify from pbs4 with the following oligonucleotides ( 5 ′ - aat gtc tag aaa caa ctc ata tac aga c - 3 ′ ) and the universal primer .
the xbai - digest 1 - kb dna fragment be subcloned in the xbai site of ppnt ( a gift from andrew karaplis , mcgill university , montréal , quebec , canada ) .
the 3 - kb fragment from pbs3 be amplify by pcr with ( 5 ′ - ggg atg cgg ccg ctc tag aat tgt cct act tga acg g - 3 ' ) and ( 5 ′ - cgg tgg cgg ccg ctg tcg acc tga gta aca ttt ctt a - 3 ′ ) and subcloned in the noti site of ppnt .
the targeting vector ppnt - sam68 replace exon 4 and part of exon 5 with a neomycin - resistant gene cassette .
an sali site be introduce at the 3 ′ end of the 3 - kb dna fragment and be use to linearize the plasmid for electroporation into embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
approximately 1,000 e colony be screen and two clone be identify that contain the sam68 mutant allele , a determine by southern blotting .
target e cell be inject into 3.5 - day - old balb / c blastocyst and be transfer into cd - 1 foster mother , and animal classify a chimera by coat color be mat with balb / c mouse .
germ line transmission be achieve and the mouse be maintain in c57bl / 6 background .
the mouse use for this study represent mouse that be backcross in c57bl / 6 between three and eight generation ; in addition , we maintain the mouse in the 129 / svj strain and observe a similar phenotype .
genotyping and immunoblot analysis .
all mouse procedure be perform in accordance with mcgill university guideline , which be set by the canadian council on animal care .
genomic dna be isolate from tail biopsy and analyze by southern blotting and genomic pcr analysis .
the dna fragment utilize a the probe for the southern blotting analysis be amplify with the follow two oligonucleotides ( 5 ′ - aag cct tta ctg gtt gtg t - 3 ′ ) and ( 5 ′ - ctt gaa acg cac cgt agg ct - 3 ′ ) .
the wild - type sam68 allele be identify by genomic pcr use the follow oligonucleotides 5 ′ - aaa tcc taa ccc tcc tca gtc ag - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gat atg atg gat gat atc tgt cag - 3 ′ .
the sam68 - target allele be identify by genomic pcr use the follow oligonucleotides 5 ′ - ctt ggg tgg aga ggc tat tcg - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gtc ggg cat gcg cgc ctt gag c - 3 ′ .
radiology and serum biochemistry on sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse .
radiography , bmd , and micro-ct be perform essentially a describe previously [ 63 ] .
mouse be administer a lethal dose of anesthetic at the indicate time , exsanguinated , and image use a faxitron mx20 equip with an fpx - 2 imaging system ( dalsa medoptics , waterloo , ontario , canada ) .
body fat , bmc , and bmd be evaluate use a lunar piximus 1.46 ( ge - lunar , madison , wisconsin , united state ) .
morphometric parameter be determine on anesthetize mouse at the time of sacrifice by direct measurement or from the faxitron radiograph .
micro-ct be perform on the left femur and fourth lumbar vertebra after removal of soft tissue and overnight fixation in 4 % paraformaldehyde .
the distal metaphysis be scan with a skyscan 1072 micro-ct instrument ( skyscan , antwerp , belgium ) .
image acquisition be perform at 100 kv and 98 μa , with a 0.9 ° rotation between frame .
the two - dimensional image be use to generate three - dimensional reconstruction to obtain quantitative data with the 3d creator software supply with the instrument .
serum biochemistry ( alp , ca , po4 , mg ) be determine at the rodent diagnostics lab ( mcgill university , montréal , quebec , canada ) use routine automate technique .
commercial assay be use to determine serum level of ctx ( ratlaps elisa , nordic bioscience ) , 17β estradiol ( ibl immuno-biological , hamburg , germany ) , leptin ( r & d system , minneapolis , minnesota , united state ) , and interleukin - 6 ( r & d system ) .
ex vivo assessment of osteoblast and osteoclast activity .
bone marrow be flush from the tibia and femur of juvenile 4 - week - old sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse to obtain stromal cell that be maintain in differentiation medium for 6 or 18 day a describe [ 63 ] .
culture be stain in situ for alp activity and with von kossa stain to detect mineralize nodule .
total rna be harvest from parallel culture for rt - pcr analysis of osteoblast - relate gene expression over time a describe previously [ 63 ] .
osteoclast be isolate from the crush long bone of juvenile sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse and use for quantitative study a describe [ 64 ] .
briefly , cell be plat on glass coverslips or on dentin slice in 24 - well cluster plate for assessment of cell number and pit number , respectively .
cover slip be immerse in 4 % paraformaldehyde and stain for trap activity after 2 h .
dentin slice be leave for 28 h before remove the cell with 1 m ammonium hydroxide and air dry before coat with sputter au - pd and examination with scan electron microscopy ( mcgill electron microscopy centre ) .
light microscope image be capture use a leica dmr microscope equip with a retiga 1300 camera .
quantitative analysis be perform use adobe photoshop and the data present a the mean ± sd of two or three independent experiment .
statistical comparison be make use the student 's t test .
preparation of mouse embryonic fibroblast and induction of adipocyte differentiation .
mefs be prepare from 14.5 - day - old embryo .
only early - passage mefs be use for the experimental study , and induction of adipocyte differentiation be carry out accord to the method previously describe [ 30 ] .
culture cell be stain with oil red o a describe [ 29 ] .
rna preparation and rt - pcr to assess adipogenesis in sam68 − / − mefs .
total cellular rna be prepare by trizol reagent accord to the manufacturer 's protocol ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
total rna ( 1 μg ) be reverse - transcribe , and cdna sample be subject to pcr .
rt - pcr be normalize by the transcriptional level of gapdh .
the follow 5 ′ and 3 ′ primer be use to evaluate adipogenic differentiation : klf5 : 5 ' - aga caa gct gag atg ctg c - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - ggc aaa cct cca gtc gc - 3 ′ ; pparγ : 5 ′ - gtg cga tca aag tag aac ctg c - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - cct atc ata aat aag ctt caa tcg - 3 ′ ; β - actin : 5 ′ - tag gcg gac tgt tac tga gc - 3 ′ , 5 ′ - agc ctt cat aca tca agt tgg - 3 ′ ; and sam68 : 5 ′ - gtg gag acc cca aat atg ccc a - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - aaa ctg ctc ctg aca gat atc a - 3 ′ .
sam68 down - regulation use sam68sh .
to generate an shrna , 64 - base duplex dna nucleotide be purchase from invitrogen .
this fragment comprise 19 base residue specific to mouse sam68 ( gatcccc aagatgacgaggagaattattcaagaga taattctcctcgtcatctt tttttggaaa ) .
this fragment be clone into psuper retro ( oligoengine , seattle , washington , united state ) .
transfections be perform use lipofectamine plus ( invitrogen ) with clone dna fragment or empty vector .
at 48 h after transfection , population be select for 2.5 μg / ml puromycin and the knockdown observe by immunoblotting with anti-sam68 ( ad1 ) antibody .
osteogenic differentiation analysis of c3ht101 / 2 cell .
for osteogenic differentiation , c3ht101 / 2 ( atcc ) cell be incubate in 48 - well tissue culture plate at 1.25 × 104 cell / cm2 .
after 24 - h incubation , the culture medium be change to fresh medium contain 300 ng / ml bmp - 2 ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
total cellular rna be prepare a describe above , and osteocalcin , β - actin , and gapdh gene expression at indicate time after bmp - 2 treatment be quantify by rt - pcr .
support information
dataset s1
localization of sam68 in primary mouse osteoblast and osteoclast
( 124 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
dataset s2
gene expression profile of culture stromal cell at day 6 and 18 of culture isolate from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse
( 204 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
dataset s3
serum biochemistry and bone biomarkers in 4 - and 12 - month - old mouse
( 46 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we acknowledge jean - sebastien binette ( centre for bone and periodontal research ) and jacinthe sirois ( québec transgenic research network ) for excellent technical assistance .
we be grateful to erique lukong , daniel larocque , and mark bedford for helpful discussion .
this work be support by grant mt13377 to sr and grant mop - 13419 to jeh from the canadian institute of health research ( cihr ) .
sr hold an investigator award from the cihr and jeh be a chercheur boursier , senior of the frsq .
abbreviation
alp - alkaline phosphatase
bmc - bone mineral content
bmd - bone mineral density
bmp - 2 - bone morphogenetic protein - 2
ct - compute tomography
ctx - c - telopeptide
mef - mouse embryo fibroblast
pparγ - peroxisome proliferator – activate receptor γ
shrna - short hairpin rna
trap - tartrate - resistant acid phosphatase
figure and table
figure 1
immunohistochemical localization of sam68 in embryonic mouse
( a ) embryonic mouse be remove from pregnant dam at e14.5 and e16.5 , fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde , and embed in paraffin .
the entire embryo be immunostained with the ad1 anti-sam68 antibody and counterstained with methyl green , and the image be capture at × 1.2 magnification .
( b ) embryonic soft tissue from the brain , heart and gut be stain with hematoxylin ( left ) and immunostained with anti-sam68 antibody ( right ) , and image be capture at × 20 magnification .
( c ) intense anti-sam68 immunoreactivity be see in chondrocytes in the nasal septum ( panel a – d ) , in develop vertebra ( panel e – h ) , and in the femoral epiphysis ( panel i – k ) , as well a in diaphyseal osteoblast ( panel l ) .
adjacent section be stain with hematoxylin and eosin ( panel a , e , and i ) or with antibody preadsorbed with the immunize peptide ( panel b , f , and j ) .
sam68 be localize primarily in the nucleus of cell in a variety of tissue but be also find occasionally in the cytoplasm .
magnification at source × 20 , except for panel d , h , and l , which be × 40 .
staining pattern be representative of three to five embryo .
figure 2
generation of sam68 - deficient mouse
( a ) the genomic organization of the wild - type and target sam68 allele after homologous recombination be depict .
the location of the dna fragment use a a probe for the southern blot analysis be show , as well a the size of the two bglii fragment detect for wild - type and target sam68 allele .
the target allele replace exon 4 and part of exon 5 of sam68 with a pgk - neomycin cassette .
( b ) southern - blot analysis of genomic dna from wild - type ( + / + ) , heterozygous ( + / − ) , and homozygous ( − / − ) mouse .
dna fragment correspond to wild - type ( 4.5 kb ) and the target ( 5.5 kb ) allele be illustrate .
( c ) western blot analysis of sam68 expression .
protein extract from wild - type , heterozygous , and homozygous cell subject to immunoblot analysis use normal rabbit serum , anti-sam68 ad1 antibody , the peptide antibody ad1 preabsorbed with the immunogenic peptide correspond to amino acid 330 – 348 of mouse sam68 , anti-sam68 sc333 antibody that recognize the c - terminal 20 amino acid of sam68 , and anti-actin antibody a loading control .
the migration of the molecular mass marker be know on the left in kda .
figure 3
radiologic assessment of the femur of young and old sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse
( a ) mouse be give a lethal dose of anesthetic at the indicate time , and contact radiograph of the distal femur be obtain on a faxitron mx20 equip with an fpx - 2 imaging system .
representative radiograph of the distal femur of sam68 + / + ( + / + ) and sam68 − / − ( − / − ) mouse reveal comparable radiopacity at 4 month ( left ) .
at 12 month ( right ) , cortical thinning ( arrow ) and radiolucency ( asterisk ) be apparent in the distal femur of + / + mouse but not − / − mouse .
( b ) bone be dissect free of soft tissue and fix overnight in 4 % paraformaldehyde before scan on a skyscan 1072 static instrument equip with 3d creator analytical software .
representative three - dimensional re-constructions and two - dimensional cross-sectional scan demonstrate similar architecture in the distal femur of sam68 + / + ( + / + ) and sam68 − / − ( − / − ) mouse .
in keep with the result from faxitron x-ray , trabecular bone ( asterisk ) and cortical thickness ( arrow ) be reduce in the femur of 12 - month - old + / + mouse compare with all other group .
the image be representative of those from five to seven animal in each group .
figure 4
quantitative micro-ct of trabecular bone composition and architecture
( a ) bone volume / tissue volume ( bv / tv ) and structure model index ( smi ) be calculate on the femur and fourth lumbar vertebra of six or seven mouse in each group use 3d creator software supply with the skyscan instrument .
result express a the mean ± sd show significant difference ( p < 0.01 ) between 4 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse ( solid black ) and 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse ( hatch black ) but not between 4 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse ( solid white ) and 12 - month - old sam68 − / − mouse ( stipple white ) .
( b ) the distance between trabecula be reflect in a shift to the right of the distribution curve for 12 - month - old sam68 + / + .
solid black = 4 - month - old sam68 + / + ; hatch black = 12 - month - old sam68 + / + ; solid red = 4 - month - old sam68 − / − ; stipple red = 12 - month - old sam68 − / − .
the asterisk denote p < 0.01 .
figure 5
histologic analysis of undecalcified bone from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − mouse
section of tibia fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde and embed in plastic be stain for alp ( a – c , e – g ) activity to identify osteoblast or for trap ( b – d , f – h ) activity to identify osteoclast .
staining pattern be similar in 4 - month - old sam68 + / + ( a and b ) , 4 - month - old sam68 − / − ( c and d ) , and 12 - month - old sam68 − / − ( g and h ) mouse compare with 12 - month - old sam68 + / + mouse ( e and f ) .
magnification at source , left panel × 10 and right panel × 40 .
micrographs be representative of those take from five to seven section in each group of animal .
figure 6
ex vivo activity of sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − osteoblast and osteoclast
marrow stromal cell be isolate from the long bone of juvenile mouse and maintain under condition that promote osteoblast differentiation .
( a ) culture be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde after 6 or 18 day and stain in situ for alp activity and with silver nitrate ( von kossa ) to detect mineralize nodule .
sam68 − / − culture stain more intensely for alp at early and late time point and produce significantly more mineralize nodule after 18 day .
asterisk represent p < 0.01 .
( b ) primary osteoclast be isolate from the crush long bone of the same mouse and plat on glass coverslips or on dentin slice to quantify number and activity , respectively .
osteoclast be identify a cell with three or more nucleus that stain positive for trap activity ( upper ) and excavate pit in dentin slice , a demonstrate by sem ( low , bar = 20 μm ) .
no statistical difference be observe either in the number of trap - positive cell or in their resorptive activity .
figure 7
ex vivo adipogenesis analysis of sam68 − / − mouse embryonic fibroblast
mefs be isolate from mouse embryo at embryonic day 14.5 .
equal number of mefs from sam68 + / + and sam68 − / − be plat on glass cover slip in 24 well - plate .
adipocyte differentiation be carry out at indicate time by the addition of complete medium contain the pioglitazone .
( a ) culture be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde and stain with oil red o to detect the fat droplet store in adipocytes and photograph ( top ) .
the cell image be magnify × 10 and × 20 a indicate .
( b ) rt - pcr be carry out on total cellular rna isolate after differentiation of the mefs for day 0 , 2 , 4 , 6 , and 12 .
the dna fragment be visualize on agarose gel stain with ethidium bromide .
the expression of adipogenic marker c / ebpβ , c / ebpδ , pparα , and klf5 be examine as well a the expression of control include sam68 , β - actin , and gapdh .
figure 8
enhance osteogenic differentiation of the c3ht101 / 2 embryonic cell line deplete of endogenous sam68
( a ) c3ht101 / 2 cell transfected with an empty vector ( psuper - retro ) or a vector contain an shrna ( sam68 shrna ) be select with puromycin , and knockdown population deplete of sam68 be identify .
the reduction in sam68 protein be analyze by immunoblotting with anti-sam68 ( ad1 ) antibody and anti–β - actin antibody a loading control .
( b ) osteogenic differentiation be carry out with condition medium contain bmp - 2 for the indicate time .
to assess the level of osteogenic differentiation in these cell , expression of late osteoblast marker , osteocalcin ( ocn ) , be analyze by rt - pcr and compare with β - actin and gapdh control .
the dna fragment be visualize by agarose gel stain with ethidium bromide .
figure 9
old sam68 − / − mouse be protect from the development of fatty bone marrow
section of undecalcified bone be stain with von kossa and toluidine blue and image capture at original magnification of × 2 ( a ) , × 40 ( b and c ) to evaluate mineralize tissue ( a , black ) , marrow adipocytes ( b , white ) , and the mineralization front ( c , yellow and green ) .
the 12 - month - old sam68 + / + bone demonstrate a significant reduction in bone ( a ) and increase in marrow adipocytes ( b ) and a decrease in the distance between two consecutive fluorochrome label ( c ) .
magnification at source be × 40 .
micrographs be representative of four to six screen in each group of animal .
table 1
progeny of sam68 heterozygote breeding
table 2
morphology and bone mineral density in 4 - and 12 - month - old female mouse
table 3
histomorphometric analysis of long bone from 4 - and 12 - month - old mouse
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
sr and jeh conceive and design the experiment .
sr , nt , gvf , gat , tc , gv , mm , pc , afr , sk , wl , al , and yjg perform the experiment .
sr and jeh analyze the data .
mlt generate the mouse .
sr and jeh write the paper .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on november 11 , 2005 ( doi : 10.1371/journal.pgen.0010074.eor ) .
citation : richard s , torabi n , franco gv , tremblay ga , chen t , et al. ( 2005 ) ablation of the sam68 rna binding protein protect mouse from age - relate bone loss .
plo genet 1 ( 6 ) : e74 .
combine global genome and transcriptome approach to identify the candidate gene of small - effect quantitative trait locus in collagen - induce arthritis
abstract
quantitative trait such a complex disease be control by many small - effect gene that be difficult to identify .
here we present a novel strategy to identify the candidate gene for small - effect quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) in collagen induce arthritis ( cia ) use global genome and transcriptome approach .
first , we perform genome linkage analysis in f2 progeny of the cia susceptible and resistant strain to search for small - effect qtl .
second , we detect gene expression pattern of both strain during cia .
the candidate gene be identify use three criterion : they be locate in a genomic region link to cia ; they be disease - specific differentially express during cia ; and they be strain - specific differentially express regard the two parental strain .
eight small - effect qtl control cia severity be identify .
of 22,000 screen gene , 117 be both strain - specific and disease - specific differentially express during cia .
of these 117 gene , 21 be locate inside the support interval of the 8 small - effect qtl and thus be consider a candidate gene .
introduction
susceptibility to most complex disease be control by many gene , each have a small effect on the disease .
one example be rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , a common complex multifactorial autoimmune disease .
several study have be carry out to detect the genetic basis of ra , and more than 30 genomic region have show evidence of linkage to the disease .
most of these genomic region do not reach a genome - wide significant threshold value of linkage , with p value between 0.05 and 0.001 [ 1 - 5 ] .
thus , these locus only have a small effect on ra .
small genetic contribution could also be see from the susceptibility gene of ra identify so far , include hla - dr4 , padi4 , ptpn22 and fcrl3 [ 6 - 9 ] .
except for hla - dr4 , which be strongly associate with ra , all the other susceptibility gene have only a small effect on the disease .
in the mouse model of ra , small genetic contribution be also often observe .
for example , in a previous study , we carry out a genome screen to identify the quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) in collagen - induce arthritis ( cia ) , which be a widely use animal model of ra .
only one qtl , cia2 , be identify for the phenotype of cia severity , but this qtl contribute to only 16 % of the phenotype variation for cia susceptibility in f2 progeny [ 10 ] .
this suggest that there must be other susceptibility gene whose contribution be not big enough to reach the stringent significance threshold value of linkage analysis .
one aim of use animal model for complex disease be to detect the genetic basis of these disease .
with controllable environmental factor as well a the known genetic background , animal model be powerful tool to search for susceptibility gene for complex disease , and have be intensively employ for that purpose .
more than 27,000 qtl have be identify in the mouse genome since the first qtl be identify at the beginning of the 1990s [ 11 ] .
by 2005 , approximately 20 quantitative trait gene ( qtgs ) in the mouse genome have be identify [ 12 , 13 ] .
interestingly , most qtgs identify in animal model have the causal polymorphism in the protein - cod region [ 14 ] , which provoke protein structure change or protein deficiency .
this suggest , on the one hand , that small - effect qtl be difficult to identify with traditional strategy and , on the other hand , that the polymorphism regulate gene expression might only slightly affect the quantitative trait , and thus be more difficult to identify .
microarray - base global gene expression be a powerful technique for investigate complex disease .
during disease development , gene involve in the disease be likely to be differentially regulate .
therefore , signature gene of the disease could be identify by detect the expression pattern of the disease - relate cell / tissue and their ideal control .
in the past decade , many study apply this technique to study both ra and it animal model [ 15 - 22 ] .
indeed , gene involve in arthritis show distinct expression pattern in certain tissue and pathological stage of the disease .
gene involve in immunoinflammatory response be differentially express in the blood cell in ra patient [ 18 ] .
chemokines and adhesion molecule be upregulated in the joint at the initiation phase of arthritis in animal model [ 21 , 22 ] , while gene involve in cartilage destruction and bone erosion be differentially express at the late phase of arthritis in animal model of ra [ 15 , 16 ] .
besides detect gene involve in complex disease , microarrays could also be use to detect the genetic polymorphism regulate gene expression because differential expression between two strain might be the result of a polymorphism locate in regulatory element .
to identify the small - effect qtl of cia as well a the potential candidate gene inside them , we investigate cia genetically susceptible and resistant strain at both the genome and transcriptome level .
at the genome level , f2 progeny of the cia susceptible ( dba / 1 ) and resistant ( fvb / n ) strain be generate and a genome - wide linkage analysis be perform to identify small - effect qtl .
at the transcriptome level , we detect the gene expression pattern of both the dba / 1 and fvb / n strain at four different phase of cia .
the potential candidate gene be identify base on three criterion : they be locate within the genomic region link to cia ; they be disease - specific differentially express during cia ; and they be strain - specific differentially express between the two parental strain during cia .
material and method
animal , immunisation and assessment of arthritis
both dba / 1 and fvb / n mouse use in this study be obtain from the jackson laboratory and keep in a climate - control environment with 12 hour light / dark cycle in the animal facility at the university of rostock .
all animal experiment be pre-approved by the state animal care committee .
cia be induce in control and experimental animal accord to establish protocol describe previously [ 10 ] .
in brief , dba / 1j , fvb / n and ( dba / 1j × fvb / n ) f2 progeny be immunise at 8 to 12 week at the base of the tail with 125 μg of bovine collagen ii ( chondrex , redmond , wa , usa ) emulsify in cfa ( difco , detroit , mi , usa ) .
the clinical scoring of arthritis commence 18 day after immunisation , and animal be monitor three time weekly for sign of cia .
arthritis development be monitor in all four limb use a three - score system per limb a describe previously [ 10 ] .
eight - week old fvb / n and dba / 1j mouse be use for the detection of gene expression .
they be divide into four experimental group accord to the different phase of cia , namely naive control ( nc ) , post-immunisation ( pi ) , onset of arthritis ( oa ) and chronic arthritis ( ca ) ( table 1 ) .
the nc group contain non-immunised mouse that be sacrifice at the age of 8 week .
the mouse in the pi group be sacrifice on day 10 after immunisation .
the mouse in the oa group be sacrifice on day 35 after immunisation .
three fvb / n non-arthritic mouse and three dba / 1 mouse that show sign of arthritis on day 33 or 34 after immunisation be sacrifice on day 35 after immunisation .
the mouse in the ca group be sacrifice on day 95 after immunisation .
three non-arthritic fvb / n mouse and three dba / 1 mouse that have develop arthritis for at least two month be sacrifice on day 95 after immunisation .
linkage analysis
detailed information on genotyping of the genome screen have be describe previously [ 10 ] .
in short , we genotyped 290 f2 mouse use 126 informative microsatellite marker cover the genome with an average inter-marker distance of 11.5 cm for 290 f2 progeny .
all linkage analysis be perform with qtx map manager software [ 23 ] .
the main clinical phenotype of cia , arthritis severity , be take a phenotype .
to detect the small - effect qtl , the threshold value of linkage be set a p = 0.05 ( chi - square test ) .
sample preparation and microarray hybridisation
lymph node ( lns ) drain the immunisation site be use for total rna preparation .
the total rna be extract from the tissue homogenate use a commercial kit in accordance with the provide protocol ( qigen , hilden , germany ) .
analysis of gene expression be conduct use a u430a array ( affymetrix , santa clara , ca , usa ) interrogate more than 22,000 gene .
rna probe be label in accordance with the manufacturer 's instruction .
sample from individual mouse be hybridise onto individual array .
hybridisation and washing of gene chip be do a previously describe [ 16 ] .
fluorescent signal be collect by laser scan ( hewlett - packard gene scanner ) .
microarray analysis
normalisation of the expression level be do use affymetrix software ma 5 , which be base on global scaling of total gene expression level per microarray .
the normalised expression value be import to and analyse by dchip [ 24 ] .
differentially express gene be identify by define the appropriate filtering criterion in the dchip software a : low 90 % confidence boundary of fold change between the group mean exceed twofold ; the absolute difference between the two group exceed 100 ; the p value threshold of the unpaired t - test be 0.05 .
the false discovery rate be establish with a permutation test for each pairwise comparison to estimate the proportion of false - positive gene .
hierarchical gene clustering be perform with dchip to characterise the gene expression pattern during cia .
the default clustering algorithm of gene be a follow : the distance between two gene be define a 1 – r , where r be the pearson correlation coefficient between the standardise expression value of the two gene across the sample use .
to characterise the functional relationship between differentially express gene , gene ontology ( go ) term classification incorporate in dna - chip analyzer be perform .
the significant level for a function cluster be set at p < 0.005 , and the minimum size of a cluster be three gene .
result
small - effect qtl of cia in ( dba / 1 × fvb / n ) f2 progeny
in a previous study , we carry out a genome screen to identify qtl control cia susceptibility in ( dba / 1 × fvb / n ) f2 progeny .
for the phenotype of arthritis severity , only one qtl , cia2 , be identify , with a highly significant logarithm of the odds ( lod ) score of 12 [ 10 ] .
however , cia2 contribute to only 16 % of the phenotype variation , indicate that there should be some small - effect qtl whose contribution to cia be not big enough to reach the significant threshold value of linkage .
to identify these potential small - effect qtl , we reanalyzed the data use a low threshold value of linkage ( p = 0.05 ) .
we reason that since the main candidate gene of cia2 , complement component c5 ( hc ) , be prove to be essential for cia development and because the fvb / n strain be c5 deficient [ 10 , 25 ] , some small - effect qtl might be mask by cia2 .
to exclude the masking effect of c5 , we perform linkage analysis with 3 datasets , the first contain all 290 f2 progeny , the second 77 c5+ / + f2 progeny and the third 133 c5+ / - f2 progeny .
eight genomic region be link to the phenotype of cia severity ( locus 1 to 8 , table 2 ) , with p value vary between 0.043 and 0.003 .
these eight small - effect qtl be locate on chromosome 5 , 6 , 7 , 10 , 11 , 16 , and 17 .
five locus be identify in at least two datasets .
of the eight locus , five have dba / 1 a the susceptibility allele , and three have fvb / n a the susceptibility allele .
lander and botstein [ 26 ] suggest a lod score of between 2 and 3 to ensure an overall false positive rate of 5 % , which mean that use a low threshold value will prevent false negative qtl at the expense of increase false positive qtl .
be aware of this , we examine these genomic region to search whether they , or their syntenic genomic region on the human genome , have be previously link to arthritis .
four small - effect qtl overlap with arthritis qtl on the mouse genome identify previously .
locus 1 and 2 overlap with cia13 and cia14 , which control severity of cia in ( dba / 1 × balb / c ) f2 progeny [ 27 ] .
locus 5 locate on chromosome 10 overlap with cia8 , which be identify in ( dba / 1 × b10.q ) f2 progeny [ 28 ] .
locus 6 overlap with pgia7 , which control susceptibility to proteoglycan - induce arthritis ( pgia ) and be identify in ( balb / c × dba / 2 ) f2 progeny [ 29 ] .
the syntenic genomic region of five small - effect qtl on the human genome have be report to be link to ra .
these be genomic region 22q11 and 12p13 - q24 on chromosome 22 and 12 ( the counterpart of locus 2 ) , 12p13 - pter on chromosome 12 ( the counterpart of locus 3 ) , 21q22 - qter and 10q22 - 23 on chromosome 21 and 10 ( the counterpart of locus 5 ) , 17q21 - 25 on chromosome 17 ( the counterpart of locus 6 ) and 3q29 - qter on chromosome 3 ( the counterpart of locus 7 ) [ 2 , 4 ] .
strain - specific differentially express gene
we detect the gene expression profile use three mouse per group , which be a small number .
be aware of the importance of data reproducibility , we determine the coefficient of variation ( cv ) to measure data variability .
the cv for each gene on the chip and the mean cv for the entire probe set be calculate .
the mean cv range between 18.4 % and 25.8 % for all experimental group , and this relatively low cv indicate that these data could be use for further analysis ( table 1 ) .
to search for strain - specific differentially express gene , we perform comparison of gene expression between the dba / 1 and fvb / n strain at all four phase of cia , include nc , pi , oa and ca .
for the naive mouse without immunisation , 361 gene be differentially express between the two strain .
on day 10 after immunisation , when both strain do not show any sign of the disease , 141 gene be differentially express .
after dba / 1 mouse develop cia , 184 and 85 differentially express gene be identify between these two strain at the onset and chronic phase , respectively .
when the list of the differentially express gene at the four phase be merge and overlap gene be exclude , 509 gene be identify ( additional file 1 ) .
twenty - one gene consistently show differential expression between the two strain at all phase .
besides these 21 gene , only 3 additional gene be strain - specific differentially express during the 3 phase after cia induction ( pi , oa and ca ; figure 1 ) .
disease - specific differentially express gene
to identify the disease - specific differentially express gene in cia , we detect the gene that be differentially express in lns during cia in the susceptible strain .
three experimental condition , pi , oa and ca , be compare with the nc group .
on day 10 after immunisation , 102 gene be differentially express – most of them be upregulated ( 78 out of 102 ) – while at the onset phase of the disease , only 26 gene be differentially express .
at the chronic phase of the disease , 184 differentially express gene be identify , with 156 downregulated gene .
only one gene be differentially express at all three phase of cia .
besides this gene , five , one and six differentially express gene be share by pi with oa , pi with ca and oa with ca , respectively ( figure 2a ) .
take together , 310 disease - specific differentially express gene be differentially regulate during cia in dba / 1 mouse ( additional file 2 ) .
to far characterise the gene expression pattern during cia , we perform hierarchical cluster analysis for these 310 gene .
six gene cluster be identify ( cluster i to vi , figure 2b ) , each with a distinct gene expression pattern during cia .
cluster i contain 16 gene , represent gene that be upregulated after induction of cia .
the expression of these gene reach a peak at the onset phase of the disease and functional clustering result reveal that they be relate to the immune response .
cluster ii contain 12 gene whose expression be gradually upregulated and reach a peak at the chronic phase of cia .
these gene be mainly relate to the immune response , organelle membrane and extracellular region and space .
cluster iii contain 78 gene that be only upregulated at the pi phase .
these gene be relate to the intercellular junction .
more than half of the gene ( 156 of 310 ) belong to cluster iv and represent gene specifically downregultaed at the chronic phase .
these gene be functionally relate to lymphocyte proliferation , t cell activation , protein binding as well a the notch signal pathway .
cluster v contain eight gene downregulated at the pi phase .
cluster vi contain 18 gene downregulated at the oa phase .
the go term classification show no functional cluster that be significantly enrich in these two gene cluster .
candidate gene for the small - effect qtl of cia
to identify candidate susceptibility gene for the cia small - effect qtl , we compare the list of strain - specific differentially express gene with the list of disease - specific differentially express gene ; 117 gene be share by both list ( additional file 3 ) .
figure 3 visualise position of the 117 gene retrieve from ensembl [ 30 ] in relation to the 8 small - effect qtl .
the eight locus be locate on 7 chromosome , 5 , 6 , 7 , 10 , 11 , 16 and 17 .
since the confidence interval of qtl in f2 progeny be around 20 cm [ 26 ] , we use 40 mb a the confidence interval for all locus .
twenty - one gene be locate in the confidence interval of six of the eight qtl .
we locate 5 , 4 , 2 , 1 , 3 and 6 potential candidate gene within the confidence interval of locus 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , 6 and 8 , respectively , while no candidate gene be identify for locus 4 and 7 .
table 3 summarise the 21 candidate gene identify in this study .
two gene , hspa1a and oas1a , be upregulated at the oa phase of cia and oas1a be also upregulated at the pi phase .
except for these two gene , all other 19 gene be downregulated at the chronic phase of cia .
all gene , except hspa1a , show expression difference between the two strain at the nc phase .
five gene be differentially express at all phase of cia , include h2 - q10 , mapk14 , pscd1 , kpnb1 and wdr1 .
among these five gene , h2 - q10 have a consistently high expression in the dba / 1 than the fvb / n strain in all cia phase , while the other four gene have a high expression in the dba / 1 strain at the early stage , include nc , pi and oa , but a low expression at the chronic phase .
go term classification analysis reveal that the functional cluster of protein kinase cascade be significantly enrich in the 21 candidate gene .
this functional cluster contain four gene , include mapk14 , mapk8ip3 , stat5a and gna12 .
discussion
in this study , we attempt for the first time to identify small - effect qtl in an f2 progeny .
small - effect qtl be define a those reach the threshold value of p = 0.05 but that do not reach the significant threshold value suggest by lander and botstein [ 26 ] .
although not significant , there be evidence that most of the eight small - effect qtl likely contain susceptibility gene for cia .
first , we perform the linkage analysis in three datasets , include all 290 f progeny , 76 c5+ / + f2 progeny and 133 c5+ / - f2 progeny .
five of the eight small - effect qtl be identify in at least two datasets , suggest that these qtl be reproducible .
second , many qtl identify in the present study overlap with arthritis qtl previously identify , include locus 1 , 2 , 5 and 6 .
in addition , syntenic analysis reveal that the counterpart genomic region on the human genome of many of these eight qtl be link to ra .
for five of the eight small - effect qtl the dba / 1 allele be the arthritis - enhance allele , while the fvbn allele be the arthritis - enhance allele in the other three qtl , indicate that some susceptibility gene could come from the resistant strain .
interestingly , locus 2 and 7 partially overlap with two arthritis - relate qtl identify by u in the same f2 progeny [ 10 ] .
locus 2 be locate at the same genomic region a cia27 , a qtl control igg2a antibody level to collagen ii .
recently , we have refine this qtl into a 4.1 mb genomic region and show that a gene within this region regulate cia severity by control the igg2a antibody level to collagen ii [ 31 ] .
locus 7 on chromosome 16 overlap with lp1 , which control lymphocyte proliferation .
furthermore , accord to our unpublished data , locus 8 on chromosome 17 control lymphocyte adherence during development of cia .
therefore , the gene within the small - effect qtl could affect cia severity through control arthritis - relate phenotype .
several study have be carry out to detect gene expression during cia , all of which use joint a the target tissue [ 15 , 16 , 21 , 22 ] .
this study , for the first time , detect gene expression in lns during cia .
we present an extensive study of gene expression pattern in lns of both genetically susceptible and resistant strain at four different phase of cia .
in both strain , differentially regulate gene be highly concentrated at the pi and ca phase , and only a small number of gene be differentially express in two or three phase .
this indicate that biological response in lns be strong in the pi and ca phase than in the oa phase , and the response at different phase be different .
when compare the susceptible to the resistant strain , the big difference be find in one cluster of gene ( cluster iv , figure 2 ) .
these gene have a high expression in dba / 1 than in fvb / n at the early phase of cia ( nc , pi and oa ) and the opposite expression pattern in the ca phase .
go term classification reveal that these gene be relate to lymphocyte proliferation and activation , suggest that lymphocyte in the dba / 1 strain be more activated than those in the fvb / n strain .
however , this difference be not cia specific because the expression difference between the two strain exist in mouse without immunisation .
additionally , some gene relate to the immune response be upregulated in the dba / 1 strain but not in the fvb / n strain during cia .
these difference could explain why a high antibody response to collagen ii occur in the dba / 1 strain compare to the fvb / n strain , and might partially explain the difference of the susceptibility to cia between both strain .
twenty - one gene be identify a potential candidate gene for six of the eight small - effect qtl accord to their gene expression pattern during cia and their genomic location .
no candidate gene be locate in qtl 4 and 7 , suggest that qtg polymorphism of the susceptibility gene inside these two qtl might not affect the phenotype by regulate gene expression .
two of the 21 candidate gene be report to be involve in arthritis .
mapk14 , a candidate gene for locus 8 and also call p38 mitogen - activate protein kinase ( mapk ) alpha , regulate the production of arthritis - essential cytokine , such a tumour necrosis factor and interleukin - 1 [ 32 ] .
moreover , inhibitor of p38 mapk could attenuate cia in rat [ 33 ] , and p38 mapk be become a potential therapeutic target in ra [ 32 ] .
stat5a , a candidate gene for locus 6 , be an essential molecule for lymphoid development and differentiation [ 34 ] .
stat5a - deficient mouse be report to lose tolerance , result in the development of autoimmune disease .
stat5a be suggest to contribute to tolerance through maintenance of the cd4+cd25+ regulatory t cell population [ 35 ] .
therefore , we have present a strategy to identify small - effect qtl and search for potential candidate gene within them .
however , it be noteworthy that the low statistical threshold and small number of animal per group could lead to some false positive result .
on the genome level , some of the eight small - effect qtl identify use a very low threshold value ( p < 0.05 ) could be false positive .
for example , locus 4 be identify with a low p value and do not overlap with any previously identify arthritis qtl .
on the transcriptome level , the small number of animal per group and the low threshold use to detect gene expression could also result in false positive in the differentially express gene .
furthermore , the differential expression of a gene could result not only from allele difference between two strain , but also from other factor .
therefore , our finding should be confirm in future study .
conclusion
we present a strategy to search candidate gene for small - effect qtl .
with this strategy , we identify 21 candidate gene for 8 small - effect qtl regulate cia susceptibility .
our future study will be carry out use two approach .
the first be generate congenic animal for promise small - effect qtl that have relatively high p value and overlap with previously - identify arthritis qtl .
the second approach be investigate candidate gene use both mouse and human study .
candidate gene will be select accord to their function and polymorphism between the two strain .
thereafter , we will generate knock - out mouse to investigate the role of the gene in cia .
for the locus whose counterpart on the human genome be link to ra , we will investigate the candidate gene use case - control association study in ra cohort .
abbreviation
ca = chronic arthritis ; cia = collagen - induce arthritis ; cv = coefficiant of variation ; go = gene ontology ; ln = lymph node ; lod = logarithm of the odds ; mapk = mitogen - activate protein kinase ; nc = naive control ; oa = onset of arthritis ; pi = post-immunisation ; qtg = quantitative trait gene ; qtl = quantitative trait locus ; ra = rheumatoid arthritis .
compete interest
the author declare that they have no compete interest .
author ' contribution
xy and kb perform the animal experiment .
dk and hjt perform gene expression profiling experiment .
xy and dk perform the bioinformatic analysis .
si conceive and design the experiment .
xy and si draft the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
supplementary material
additional file 1
summary information on the 509 gene differentially express between dba / 1 and fvb / n strain .
comparison be perform between two strain at four stage of cia , na , pi , oa and ca .
three criterion be apply for select the differentially express gene : the low 90 % confidence bound of fold change between the group mean exceed twofold ; the absolute difference between the two group exceed 100 ; the p value threshold of the unpaired t - test be 0.05
click here for file
additional file 2
summary information on the 311 gene differentially express in joint in the dba / 1 strain during cia .
pairwise comparison be perform by compare pi , oa and ca with na .
three criterion be apply for select the differentially express gene : the low 90 % confidence bound of fold change between the group mean exceed twofold ; the absolute difference between the two group exceed 100 ; the p value threshold of the unpaired t - test be 0.05
click here for file
additional file 3
summary information on the 117 gene that be strain - specific differentially express and be dysregulated in the dba / 1 strain during cia .
the physical position of the gene be retrieve from ensembl [ 30 ]
click here for file
acknowledgement
the author wish to thank ilona klamfuss for animal care .
this work be support by a grant from the eu fp6 ( mrtn - ct - 2004 - 005693 , euro - ra ) .
figure and table
figure 1
differentially express gene between collagen - induce arthritis ( cia ) susceptible and resistant strain .
comparison of the gene expression between the dba / 1 and fvb / n strain be perform at four phase of cia .
of the 22,000 screen gene , 509 be differentially express between both strain at one or more phase of cia , include 361 gene at the naive control ( nc ) phase , 141 gene at post-immunisation ( pi ) phase , 184 gene at the onset of arthritis ( oa ) phase and 85 gene at the chronic arthritis ( ca ) phase .
the venn diagram indicate the number of overlap gene differentially express at different phase of cia .
figure 2
differentially express gene in the dba / 1 strain during collagen - induce arthritis ( cia ) .
three experimental condition , post-immunisation ( pi ) , onset of arthritis ( oa ) and chronic arthritis ( ca ) , be compare with naïve control ( nc ) to search for differentially express gene .
( a ) venn diagram indicate the number of overlap gene differentially express at three phase of cia .
( b ) hierarchical clustering of the 310 differentially express gene .
the left panel show the distribution of relative gene expression across the hierarchical tree structure .
row represent individual gene ; column represent individual value of triplicate sample for each experimental group .
each cell in the matrix represent the expression level of a gene , with red and green indicate transcription level above and below the normal value for that gene , respectively .
four sample group be indicate above the expression matrix .
six basic gene cluster ( cluster i to vi ) be yield by the analysis accord to the gene expression pattern during cia .
the expression pattern of the gene cluster be graph and the major biological activity for each cluster that be examine by functional clustering analysis be indicate on the right .
figure 3
visualisation of all the chromosomal location of the small - effect qtl identify in this study ( blue bar ) as well a 120 gene of interest from gene expression profiling ( black letter ) .
the position of the 120 gene and the peak marker of the qtl be retrieve from ensembl [ 30 ] .
confidence interval of all the qtl be set a 40 mb .
table 1
experimental group use for gene expression profiling
ca , chronic arthritis ; cfa ; complete freund 's adjuvant ; cv , coefficient of variation ; ln , lymph node ; nc , naive control ; oa , onset of arthritis ; pi , post-immunisation .
table 2
summary of the small - effect qtl identify in this study
a identify in all f2 290 progeny .
b identify in 76 c5+ / + f2 progeny .
c identify in 133 c5+ / - f2 progeny .
qtl , quantitative trait locus ; ra , rheumatoid arthritis .
table 3
summary of the small - effect qtl candidate gene
a fold change calculate by compare dba / 1 with fvb / n .
b fold change calculate by compare post-immunisation ( pi ) , onset of arthritis ( oa ) and chronic arthritis ( ca ) with naive control ( nc ) , respectively .
chr. , chromosome ; cia , collagen - induce arthritis .
hedgehog can drive terminal differentiation of amniote slow skeletal muscle
abstract
background
secrete hedgehog ( hh ) signalling molecule have profound influence on many develop and regenerate tissue .
yet in most vertebrate tissue it be unclear which hh - response be the direct result of hh action on a particular cell type because hhs frequently elicit secondary signal .
in develop skeletal muscle , hhs promote slow myogenesis in zebrafish and be involve in specification of medial muscle cell in amniote somite .
however , the extent to which non-myogenic cell , myoblasts or differentiate myocytes be direct or indirect target of hh signalling be not know .
result
we show that sonic hedgehog ( shh ) can act directly on culture c2 myoblasts , drive gli1 expression , myogenin up - regulation and terminal differentiation , even in the presence of growth factor that normally prevent differentiation .
distinct myoblasts respond differently to shh : in some slow myosin expression be increase , whereas in others shh simply enhance terminal differentiation .
exposure of chick wing bud cell to shh in culture increase number of both muscle and non-muscle cell , yet simultaneously enhance differentiation of myoblasts .
the small proportion of differentiate muscle cell express definitive slow myosin can be double by shh .
shh over-expression in chick limb bud reduce muscle mass at early developmental stage while induce ectopic slow muscle fibre formation .
abundant later - differentiate fibre , however , do not express extra slow myosin .
conversely , hh loss of function in the limb bud , cause by implant hybridoma cell express a functionally block anti-hh antibody , reduce early slow muscle formation and differentiation , but do not prevent later slow myogenesis .
analysis of hh knockout mouse indicate that shh promote early somitic slow myogenesis .
conclusion
take together , the data show that hh can have direct pro-differentiative effect on myoblasts and that early - develop muscle require hh for normal differentiation and slow myosin expression .
we propose a simple model of how direct and indirect effect of hh regulate early limb myogenesis .
background
each muscle in a develop chick limb acquire a unique character from it inception [ 1 ] .
fibre form by the terminal differentiation of divide myoblasts that elongate in particular orientation to form specific attachment to the skeleton .
simultaneously , the fibre of each muscle take on gene expression pattern characteristic of their future function .
for example , those muscle destine to maintain body posture express certain isoforms of slow myosin from their inception , whereas future fast muscle region fail to express this slow myosin [ 2 ] .
it have be suggest that distinct cell lineage underlie the formation of slow and fast muscle fibre , and much evidence for myoblast heterogeneity have be obtain from study both in vitro and in vivo [ [ 3 - 7 ] , review in [ 8 ] ] .
nevertheless , it be clear that for fibre to undergo differentiation at the appropriate time and place extrinsic cue must regulate muscle patterning .
work on muscle patterning in somite over the past decade have show that various protein factor secrete by adjacent tissue act a extrinsic signal regulate the formation and fate of myogenic cell [ [ 9 ] , review in [ 10 - 12 ] ] .
one such factor be sonic hedgehog ( shh ) , derive from the ventral midline , which be require for expression of marker of the early population of myogenic cell in the medial somite of both bird and mouse [ 13 - 15 ] .
these medial somitic cell contribute to the early - bear muscle fibre of the myotome , but their subsequent fate be not know in amniote [ 16 , 17 ] .
ventral midline hedgehog ( hh ) signal be also require for formation of the early muscle cell in the zebrafish embryo , the adaxial slow cell [ [ 18 , 19 ] , review in [ 20 ] ] .
the fate of these cell be know , they generate a population of slow muscle fibre that migrate to form a layer of slow muscle that cover the lateral surface of the somite [ 21 , 22 ] .
in all vertebrate examine , a second myogenic cell population arise in the lateral somite by a distinct hh - independent genetic pathway in response to signal from more lateral and dorsal tissue .
signal such a fgfs , bmps and wnts and their antagonist be prime candidate for patterning of lateral somitic cell , at least in amniote [ review in [ 8 , 9 , 23 , 24 ] ] .
wnt protein from dorsal tissue be also implicate in medial myogenesis [ 25 - 30 ] .
in the somite , induction of precursor myoblast population be occur close in space and time to terminal differentiation of myoblasts into contractile fibre .
this make analysis of the precise effect of extrinsic signal hard to determine .
for example , shh can promote both primary myogenesis and subsequent cell survival in somitic explants and in vivo , but the precise target cell population be unclear [ 13 , 15 , 31 - 33 ] .
in contrast , in the limb bud myogenic induction and terminal differentiation be temporally and spatially separate .
myogenic cell of the limb derive from a population of precursor that migrate into the limb bud from the lateral somite [ 34 - 36 ] .
these cell already express gene require for myogenesis prior to their migration [ 37 , 38 ] .
evidence suggest that several distinct population of myogenic cell enter the limb bud [ 5 , 39 , 40 ] .
thus , muscle formation within the limb bud omit some of the early step that occur in the somite .
consequently , we choose the somewhat simple and more accessible limb bud to analyse the effect of hh on the differentiation and patterning of muscle fibre type .
previous work have show that early manipulation that alter limb anteroposterior axis formation and skeletal pattern , include shh mis-expression , change muscle and fibre type pattern in parallel [ 41 , 42 ] .
moreover , myoblast clone appear uncommitted to a particular character either early or late in myogenesis [ 43 , 44 ] indicate that local signal control fibre pattern .
nevertheless , implantation of clone myoblasts into limb can alter fibre pattern , although in such experiment it be difficult to rule out implantation of cell that be already undergo terminal differentiation [ 45 , 46 ] .
myoblast implantation at late stage show that local limb signal can re-programme myoblast differentiation [ 47 , 48 ] .
it be clear that hh expression within the limb at these late stage do not have a spatial pattern that be well correlated with formation of individual muscle or fibre type .
nevertheless , augment hh signalling in a way that do not affect anteroposterior axis formation severely disrupt muscle patterning and differentiation lead to enlarge but disorganise muscle [ 49 - 51 ] .
conversely , a dramatic loss of muscle be observe in shh - deficient mouse limb [ 52 ] .
interpretation of these hh result have differ , possibly because muscle be not the only tissue affect .
moreover , these study do not distinguish direct effect of hh on myogenic cell from indirect effect act via non-myogenic cell population in the limb .
in the current paper , we use both in vitro and in vivo approach to analyse the effect of hh on muscle differentiation and slow fibre formation .
we establish definitively use in vitro culture that myoblasts can be directly induce to terminal differentiation by shh .
moreover , shh enhance slow myosin accumulation .
with these in vitro result in mind , in vivo analysis of limb with increase or decrease hh signalling indicate that hh be a muscle differentiation factor that promote early slow myogenesis .
result
shh promote myogenesis in limb monolayer culture
we examine shh action on wing myogenic cell by expose limb bud cell to shh in monolayer culture , in which we hop the effect of secondary signal elicit by shh action on non-myogenic cell population would be minimize .
wing bud be dissociate at hh22 and grow in growth medium either in the presence or absence of shh - contain condition medium .
after two day ( the equivalent of hh28 ) , shh - treat culture be noticeably more dense ( fig. 1a ) .
immunohistochemical detection of desmin , a marker of myogenic cell , show that myogenic and non-myogenic cell increase in parallel on shh exposure , so that the proportion of myogenic cell remain unaltered ( fig. 1b ) .
however , control culture seed at high density show a reduce overall proportion of myogenic cell compare to low density control culture , suggest that interaction between cell in high density culture repress myogenic cell accumulation .
nevertheless , even at high density , the proportion of myogenic cell be maintain on exposure to shh , demonstrate an increase in desmin+ cell number ( compare fig. 1a , 1b ) .
we next examine pan-myhc immunoreactivity , a marker of differentiate myocytes and myotubes .
in all control culture , ~ 50 % of myogenic cell express myhc .
with shh , this proportion increase to ~ 70 % in low and ~ 85 % in high density culture , equivalent to a threefold increase in absolute number of differentiate cell ( fig. 1c ) .
thus , shh enhance both number and terminal differentiation of chick limb bud myogenic cell , confirm result on explant culture of limb and somite [ 32 , 49 , 53 ] .
figure 1
shh induce terminal differentiation and slow myhc in wing primary culture .
dissociate cell hh22 wing bud cell be plat at low or high density and grow for two day in the absence ( white bar ) or presence of shh - condition medium ( shhqt6 cm , black bar ) or control cm ( qt6 cm , grey bar ) and the number of total ( a ) , desmin - reactive ( b ) , pan-myhc - reactive ( c ) and slow myhc - reactive ( d ) cell determine .
data from two low and one high density experiment be present ( mean ± sem , derive by addition of fractional error , number above column be dish for the numerator ) .
a . irrespective of plating density , the number of cell in dish expose to shh be ~ 70 % great than that of control dish .
b . the proportion of desmin - express myogenic cell be unchanged by shh , at either low or high cell density .
note that the proportion of myogenic cell decline at high density , consistent with fast proliferation of non-myogenic cell .
c . the proportion of differentiate myogenic cell ( define a the fraction of nucleus within desmin - contain cytoplasm that be in myhc - contain cytoplasm ) increase with shh , irrespective of density .
d . with shh more differentiate cell express slow myhc ( define a the fraction of nucleus within myhc - contain cytoplasm that be in slow myhc - contain cytoplasm ) .
note that even the high density culture have more total slow myhc express cell because the same proportion of an increase number of differentiate cell express slow myhc .
** p ≤ 0.002 compare to control ( s ) , t - test on cell number after correct for change in numerator .
shh can directly induce muscle terminal differentiation
experiment use limb bud cell do not exclude an indirect effect of shh , a non-myogenic cell type be present in the culture .
nor do such experiment resolve whether shh directly promote myoblast terminal differentiation , proliferation or both , or act by prevent apoptosis .
we next try to isolate clone of myoblasts from early chick wing bud , but despite repeat attempt this prove impossible , probably due to the know difficulty of clone embryonic chick myoblasts combine with the low abundance of myogenic cell in early wing bud .
so the effect of shh exposure be test on the adult mouse - derive c2c12 myoblast cell line ( fig. 2 ) .
all three c2c12 - derive myoblast line test [ 54 , 55 ] respond to shh treatment by increase terminal differentiation ( fig. 2a , 2b ) .
no change in cell density be apparent ( fig. 2a ) , nor be brdu incorporation alter ( fig. 2c ) .
no change in tunel , acridine orange or annexin v staining be ever observe ( data not show ) .
therefore , shh can act directly on these myoblasts to promote terminal differentiation .
figure 2
shh increase c2 myoblast differentiation .
c2 cell be expose to shhqt6 condition or control qt6 condition medium during both growth and differentiation .
a . c2 myoblast line c2 / 4 and c2c12 show enhance differentiation in response to shh .
b . quantitative comparison of enhance differentiation of c2 myoblast line in response to shh calculate a the number of nucleus within myhc - contain cytoplasm ( i.e. number of differentiate myocytes ) .
note that the effect of shh appear more dramatic if the proportion of nucleus in myhc - contain cytoplasm be measure , because shh - treat well have the same or few total cell .
for example , in one experiment c2 / 4 cell show around 44 % differentiation compare to ~ 6 % in control although across all experiment cell number be not significantly affect by shh treatment .
c . brdu staining of c2 / 4 cell treat with shhqt6 or control qt6 condition growth medium prior to a 2 hour brdu pulse .
d . in situ mrna hybridisation on c2 / 4 myoblasts treat for one day with shhqt6 condition growth medium reveal increase reactivity with a gli1 antisense , but not sense probe , compare to myoblasts expose to condition medium from control qt6 cell .
e . immunocytochemical analysis of c2 / 4 myoblasts similarly expose to shhqt6 condition or control qt6 - condition growth medium use antibody to myod , myogenin and pan-myhc .
member of the gli family of transcription factor be both target and mediator of shh signalling [ 56 ] .
thus , if c2 myoblasts respond directly to shh they would be expect to show elevated level of gli gene transcription .
the addition of shh up - regulate gli1 transcript in over 50 % of c2 myoblasts ( fig. 2d ) , but do not induce gli2 expression ( data not show ) .
thus , c2 cell appear to be responsive to shh through the normal shh response pathway .
to examine the mechanism involve in the shh response we determine the effect of shh on c2 cell in growth factor - rich medium , which normally maintain c2 myoblasts in the cell cycle and inhibit terminal differentiation .
control culture have low level of nuclear myod protein , very little myogenin and only rare myhc - contain cell .
however , after two day of shh treatment , c2 cell show enhance myod protein accumulation in many nucleus and a markedly high frequency of group of myogenin immunoreactive cell , some of which also contain detectable myhc ( fig. 2e ) .
shh , therefore , can drive nuclear myod accumulation and terminal differentiation of myoblasts even in the presence of growth factor find in serum .
shh can directly promote slow fibre formation
when wing bud culture be analyse for expression of slow myhc , the vast majority of differentiate muscle cell fail to express detectable slow myhc , just a nascent fibre do not express slow myhc at the initiation of myogenesis in vivo ( see below ) .
in control low density culture , a small proportion of differentiate cell ( 1 – 2 % , define a the proportion of nucleus within myhc - contain cytoplasm that be in slow myhc - contain cytoplasm ) contain slow myhc , detect by a4.840 immunoreactivity ( fig. 1d ) .
shh exposure double the proportion of myocyte / myotubes express slow myhc to ~ 4 % , which correspond to a six-fold increase in absolute number of slow myhc - reactive cell ( fig. 1d ) .
however , in high density culture , slow myhc be suppress in control and shh fail to induce an increase in the proportion of cell express slow myhc .
the small rise in culture wing cell express slow myhc from ~ 1 – 2 % to ~ 4 % of total myocytes suggest that a sub-population of myogenic cell might be induce to express slow myhc by shh .
however , a with overall terminal differentiation , selective cell survival and / or indirect effect of shh could not be rule out .
to avoid these criticism , we again turn to c2 cell .
two line of c2 cell , c2c12 and c2 / 4 , express very little slow myhc after three day differentiation .
shh exposure do not induce slow myhc in these cell , despite their shh responsiveness ( fig. 2 and data not show ) .
however , another line of c2c12 cell , designate c2x , express a low level of slow myhc in 5 – 15 % of myocytes in the absence of shh ( fig. 3 ) .
exposure to shh during two day of proliferation in growth medium and a subsequent three day period in differentiation medium enhance differentiation to a similar extent to that in other c2c12 line ( fig 2b and 3a , 3b , 3d ) .
in addition , the frequency and intensity of slow myhc - reactivity in myocytes increase dramatically to above 30 % of differentiate cell ( fig. 3a , 3c , 3d ) .
both effect of shh condition medium on c2x cell be block by addition of the anti-hh antibody 5e1 , confirm that shh be the induce component of the medium ( fig. 3b , 3c ) .
purify shh also up - regulate slow myhc ( fig. 3c ) .
despite the ability of 5e1 to block the activity of exogenously apply shh , it do not reduce baseline slow myhc expression , suggest that the low level of slow myhc express in these cell be not due to autocrine exposure to a hh signal ( fig. 3c ) .
after shh exposure , a very similar proportion of mono - , di - , tri - and tetranucleate myocytes contain slow myhc ( fig. 3d ) , indicate that increase fusion be not responsible for the extra slow myhc .
we conclude that shh can act on this murine myoblast cell line to induce both terminal differentiation and slow myhc accumulation .
figure 3
shh promote slow differentiation .
a . mouse c2x myoblasts be treat with control qt6 or shhqt6 condition medium for two day growth and three day differentiation .
dual immunofluorescent analysis with pan myhc ( a4.1025 , upper panel ) and slow myhc ( a4.840 , low panel ) .
inset : anti-slow myhc monoclonal antibody a4.840 and ba - d5 confirm the induction of slow myhc [ 61 ] .
b , c . the number of differentiate myocytes , i.e. nucleus in myhc - positive cytoplasm ( b ) and the proportion of differentiate myocytes express slow myhc ( c ) be determine under various treatment regime .
shh condition medium significantly increase ( p < 0.001 , t - test , n = 18 replicate well in 3 experiment ) both differentiation and the proportion of myocytes express slow myhc compare to either untreated cell or control condition medium .
this effect be block by addition of the 5e1 ( 1 : 300 dilute from 1.9 mg / ml ) functionally - block anti-shh monoclonal antibody , although basal differentiation and slow myhc expression in control myocytes be unaffected .
purify preparation of mouse or zebrafish shh n - terminal fragment also significantly induce differentiation and slow myhc ( p < 0.01 , t test , n = 11 replicate well in 2 experiment ) .
d . shh enhance differentiation and fusion of c2x myoblasts ( left panel ) .
shh enhance slow myhc accumulation in all class of myotubes ( right panel ) .
note that although the number of mononucleate myocytes be unaltered by shh exposure , mononucleate myocytes be as efficiently induce to express slow myhc a more mature multinucleate myotubes .
initial slow myogenesis correlate with hh signalling in vivo
the ability of shh to enhance slow myogenesis in a murine cell line and a subset of chick primary myoblasts , just a it do in zebrafish , prompt u to re-examine the effect of hh in vivo .
first , we characterise develop chick wing bud with respect to slow myhc expression use several monoclonal antibody ( fig. 4 ) .
a we have describe previously [ 47 ] , myogenesis in the zeugopod ( forearm region ) commence at hh25 in both ventral and dorsal muscle mass ( dmm ) ( fig. 4b ) .
at hh27 / 28 , slow myhc be detectable in both muscle mass .
two anti - slow myhc antibody , na8 and a4.840 , detect a subset of muscle fibre within the dmm run from the posterior of proximal dmm to the middle of the distal dmm ( fig. 4a , 4b , 4c , 4d , 4e , 4f , 4g , 4h , 4i , 4j , 4k ) .
this pattern be similar to that previously report for the product of the smhc2 gene , a definitive marker of slow fibre in adult chicken [ 42 , 57 ] .
by contrast , anti-slow myhc antibody ba - d5 be express in most , if not all , early fibre , consistent with the report expression pattern of smhc1 gene product in all early primary fibre of the chick embryo ( fig. 4e , 4i ) [ 58 ] .
at hh31 , all three anti-slow myhc antibody react in both dmm and vmm , with a pattern approximately reciprocal with a neonatal / fast myhc antibody n3.36 , consistent with previous result use other antibody [ 4 ] .
slow myhc be most abundant in the posterior proximal ( fig. 4 ) and medial distal ( data not show ) region of the former dmm , which have split into individual muscle ( fig. 4l , 4m , 4n ) .
thus , ba - d5 immunoreactivity be lose within some muscle of the dorsal compartment , but be retain in the region that initially express the na8 and a4.840 - reactive myhcs .
consequently , antibody na8 and / or a4.840 be use in all subsequent study to mark definitive slow muscle .
figure 4
early formation of a restricted group of slow myhc - express fibre in the chick forewing .
a . schematic of muscle fibre type in the wing dmm of the hh28 chick zeugopod show the location of section in c - h .
definitive slow ( red ) and non-slow ( green ) fibre be indicate .
b . immunohistochemistry of transverse cryosection of hh25 chick wing show early differentiation of embryonic myhc - reactive cell .
no fibre type difference be detect at this stage ( data not show ) .
c - k . serial cryosections at proximal ( c - g ) and distal ( h - k ) position ( a indicate in panel a ) of hh28 transverse cryosections stain for pan-myhc ( c , d , e ) , and slow myhc - reactive ba - d5 ( e , i ) , a4.840 ( f , j ) and na8 ( g , k ) .
proximally the definitive slow fibre be locate in posterior dmm ( cf d with f , c with g ) .
distally , slow fibre be localise to the central region of the dmm ( cf h with i - k ) .
l - n . serial transverse cryosections of hh32 proximal zeugopod with pan-myhc ( l ) reveal muscle splitting , n3.36 - reactive neonatal / fast myhc ( m ) and definitive a4.840 - reactive slow myhc ( n ) .
some muscle , such a the emu , contain both fast and slow fibre ( m , n arrowhead ) .
other muscle , such a the superficial region of the fcu , have many slow fibre but few fast fibre ( m , n ; right - point arrow ) .
other muscle , such a the pp / p , have few slow but numerous fast fibre ( m , n ; left - point arrow ) .
edc extensor digitorum communis ; anc anconeus ; emu extensor metacarpus ulnaris ; eil extensor indicis longus ; emr extensor metacarpus radialis ; p pronator superficialis ; pp pronator profundus ; fdp flexor digitorum profundus ; umv ulni metacarpalis ventralis ; fcu flexor carpus ulnaris .
o - v . in situ mrna hybridisation for ptc1 ( o - q ) , gli1 ( r - t ) or gli2 ( u , v ) and subsequent myhc staining with mf20 ( p , q , s - v ) in control ( o , p , r , s , u ) and rcas / shh ( q , t , v ) limb .
wholemount in situ at hh22 - 26 show ptc1 and gli1 mrna in distal / posterior limb ( o , r ; dorsal view of right wing bud , anterior be up ) .
by hh28 , an additional zone of ptc1 mrna be present proximally in the posterior dmm ( o ) .
gli1 mrna be also accumulate in distinct zone away from the zpa ( r ) .
section of the zeugopod show ptc1 mrna in both muscle and non-muscle region , with restriction of ptc1 signal to region without myhc stain .
rcas / shh implant up - regulate ptc1 throughout the dorsal region around the implant ( q , inset show shh mrna in / near dmm ) .
normal gli1 expression ( s ) be partially reciprocal to gli2 mrna ( u ) .
gli1 mrna be up - regulate and gli2 reduce around a rcas / shh implant ( t , v ; inset show shh mrna in / near dmm ) .
dorsal be up and posterior to the left in panel b - n , p , q , s - v .
( u ) ulna , ( r ) radius .
scale bar = 600 μm ( a - k ) , 250 μm ( l - n ) .
to examine the role of endogenous hh signalling in wing myogenesis we analyse expression of gli1 and ptc1 , a gene encode a hh receptor .
both gene be themselves downstream target of hh signalling [ 56 ] .
ptc1 and gli1 be highly express in posterior and distal limb region from hh21 - 28 , due to shh derive from the zone of polarizing activity ( zpa ; fig. 4o , 4r ) .
ptc1 expression decline in wing cell a they leave the progress zone and commence histogenesis ( fig. 4o ) .
distal gli1 expression be more extensive but decline similarly ( fig. 4r ) .
however , by hh27 new region of hh signalling arise around the posterior region of the dmm , perhaps because indian hedgehog ( ihh ) expression commence in cartilage anlage [ 59 ] .
ptc1 and gli1 be express in both non-myogenic tissue such a perichondrium and limb mesenchyme , and in the myogenic zone surround muscle fibre ( fig. 4p , 4 ) .
it be striking that the muscle region with high ptc1 and gli1 mrna roughly correspond to the early slow zone , although it be also clear that hh signalling in this region be not restrict to myogenic cell and that there be many fibre not express slow myhc in the region of strong hh signalling ( fig. 4f , 4g , 4o , 4p , 4r , 4 ) .
shh over-expression delay myogenesis and induce ectopic slow muscle 48 hour after graft
to investigate the influence of hh on wing muscle formation , we implant pellet of chick embryo fibroblast express a shh / rcas replication competent retroviral vector into the dorsal surface of hh22 chick limb bud and allow the embryo to develop for two day until hh27 - 28 ( fig 4p , 4q , 4r , 4 , 4t , 4u , 4v , 5 ) .
previous work have show that this implantation regime do not disrupt digit pattern a do early and more anterior / distal implant [ 42 , 49 ] .
after shh over-expression , ptc1 and gli1 mrna be up - regulate near shh - express cell in a broad and more anterior region in and around the dmm than in contralateral control ( fig. 4q , 4t ) .
analysis of gli2 , another hh - responsive gene implicate in hh signalling , show reciprocal expression to gli1 in un-manipulated limb ( fig. 4u ) .
shh over-expression do not induce gli2 ( fig. 4v ) .
thus , ptc1 , gli1 and gli2 expression suggest that the posterior dmm receive hh signal around the time of slow muscle initiation at hh27 , and that rcas / shh implantation augment this signal and expand it into the anterior dmm .
figure 5
shh / rcas - infection of chick wing block early muscle differentiation .
a . pellet of chick embryo fibroblast express theshh / rcas replication - competent retroviral vector be graft into the dorsal mesenchyme of chick right wing bud at hh22 and embryo be maintain to hh27 - 28 .
b - g . contralateral ( b - d ) and shh / rcas infect ( e - g ) wing be serially section and stain for pan-myhc ( b , e ) , anti-slow myhc ( c , f ) , and anti-hh ( d , g ) antibody .
control left wing have a normal distribution of muscle fibre and lack shh staining in muscle - form mesenchyme ( b - d ) whereas some shh / rcas right wing show a loss of pan-myhc - reactive cell ( e ) .
ectopic slow myhc be present in the anterior dorsal muscle mass ( f , arrow ) .
h - j. fibre number count in adjacent section at comparable level of control contralateral and operate hh27 - 28 limb .
the value present must be regard a an imprecise reflection of absolute fibre number because resolution of small fibre from adjacent large fibre be difficult and vary depend on the orientation of fibre within the section .
total fibre number ( h ) , slow fibre number ( i ) and the proportion of fibre that contain slow myhc ( j ) be present from four limb show normal dmm extent ( increase slow limb ) , five limb show reduce dmm ( reduce muscle limb ) and the pool data ( all limb ) .
dorsal be up and posterior to the left in panel b - g .
( u ) ulna , ( r ) radius .
scale bar = 500 μm .
similarly implant limb be serially - section and analyse for expression of shh protein , slow myhc and pan myhc .
control contralateral limb show a broad dmm , with slow myhc in the posterior portion above the ulna condensation ( fig. 5b , 5c ) .
among treat wing , three class of outcome be observe .
in ~ 50 % ( 8 / 15 ) wing , there be a complete loss of muscle tissue in the posterior region of the dorsal zone and reduce muscle in the anterior region ( fig. 5e , 5h ) .
in another ~ 30 % ( 4 / 15 ) wing , the dmm have alter shape and a variable reduction in the total number of differentiate fibre in the region of shh accumulation ( fig. 5e , 5h ) .
the three remain shh / rcas wing reveal no phenotype , correlate with low ectopic shh protein and young age ( data not show ) .
in all affect wing , the anterior dmm that would not normally express any slow myhc contain significant level of slow myhc , such that the proportion of all fibre that contain slow myhc be double ( fig. 5f , 5i , 5j ) .
in most operate wing show a muscle phenotype , shh be detectable in or close to the dmm ( fig. 5g , arrowhead ) .
the location of high ectopic shh correlate with loss of muscle fibre in severely - affect wing ( fig. 5e , 5f , 5g ; arrowhead ) .
thus , exposure of develop chick wing bud to shh lead to a reduction in total muscle differentiation 48 hour after graft , a already report [ 50 , 51 ] .
despite this reduce myogenesis , we find an increase of slow muscle .
prolong shh over-expression enhance limb and muscle size without increase slow
to examine the long term consequence of shh over-expression on muscle formation we permit implant embryo to develop for three or four day to hh30 or 32 when significantly more fibre have form in control .
at these stage , shh - treat limb be obviously big than control limb ( fig. 6 compare a to d and g to k for hh30 and 32 , respectively ) .
at hh30 , operate limb ( fig. 6d , 6e ) show increase dmm area and alter muscle splitting , compare to control wing ( fig. 6a , 6b ) .
by hh32 , analysis of myhc expression in the autopod show a large increase in muscle fibre compare to contralateral control limb ( data not show ) .
in contrast , in zeugopod , expansion of the dmm be variable : some limb have enhance muscle mass whereas others simply appear disorganized , with muscle splitting less clear cut than in the vmm ( data not show ) .
thus , a report previously [ 60 ] , hh over-expression ultimately perturb muscle splitting and enhance terminal differentiation .
figure 6
later - form fibre do not accumulate slow myhc in response to shh .
dorsal muscle mass from contralateral ( a - c ) and operate ( d - f ) wing implant grow to hh30 and stain for pan myhc ( mf20 , a , d ) and slow myhc ( na8 , b , e ) after in situ hybridisation for shh mrna ( c , f ) .
shh mrna be widespread in the dorsal muscle mass , which be expanded and poorly split ( a , d ) .
in contralateral muscle most slow fibre be in the medial region of the dorsal / posterior muscle block ( b ) .
in the operate limb , slow myhc be more abundant in the dorsal region , with numerous cell in ectopic lateral location ( arrow , e ) .
note that the ventral region of the dorsal muscle mass have few if any ectopic slow fibre .
concern slow differentiation , shh over-expression increase the number of slow fibre at hh30 ( fig. 6b , 6e ) .
this change may relate to the increase in total fibre a many fibre do not express slow myhc despite proximity to the shh source ( fig. 6a , 6d ) .
by hh32 , no increase in slow fibre , a a proportion of total fibre , be detect and slow fibre pattern appear normal ( data not show ) .
thus , the induction of an increase proportion of slow fibre be not a continuing process within the chick wing bud , despite the continue presence of shh .
blockade of hh reduce slow muscle differentiation
to address the role of endogenous hh in muscle patterning , we implant hybridoma cell secrete a functionally - block anti-hh antibody into the proximal dorsal limb at hh 21 - 24 and examine subsequent muscle differentiation ( fig. 7 ) .
anti-hh hybridoma cell cause a reduction in limb cross sectional area by 15 % ( p < 0.001 , n = 14 , 0.64 to 0.55 mm2 ) , whereas control hybridoma cell have no effect .
overall dmm area be also reduce at hh27 / 28 but without obvious change in location or shape .
however , the initial appearance of slow myhc be more severely reduce or block entirely compare to contralateral control limb ( 7 / 9 limb at hh27 / 29 , fig 7a , 7b , 7c , 7d , 8 ) .
the effect of the implant be generally more severe in young limb , but in all affect case extend over at least 480 μm of the zeugopod ( fig. 8 ) .
we next quantify slow myhc - express fibre in at least four section space by 120 μm within each limb in comparison to contralateral control limb at the same proximodistal level .
at hh27 / 28 or 28 anti-hh treat limb show a 79 % ( ± 12 % sem , n = 4 ) reduction in slow fibre .
more mature treat limb at hh28 / 29 show a less reduction of 27 % ( ± 19 % sem , n = 5 ) .
in even old limb ( hh30 ) , there be a reduction in dmm extent in the zeugopod region of anti-hh treat limb ( 4 / 4 limb , fig. 7e , 7f , 7g , 7h ) .
however , slow myhc be not noticably reduce ( 4 / 4 limb , fig. 7e , 7f , 7g , 7h ) .
limb outgrowth and digit formation be unaffected at any stage ( data not show ) , suggest that the anti-hh antibody do not reach sufficient titre to prevent zpa activity .
although implant be generally find within the elbow or stylopod region , change in stylopod muscle be less marked than in zeugopod ( data not show ) , consistent with a diminish role for hh in the late stage of stylopod muscle formation .
control hybridoma cell ( encode a high - titre igg1 anti-myhc antibody n2.261 ) have no significant effect on any parameter examine ( 6 limb , fig. 7i , 7j ) .
thus , hh be require for normal initiation of slow myogenesis and early muscle differentiation in zeugopod .
figure 7
anti-hedgehog antibody delay slow myhc and reduce muscle differentiation in chick wing bud .
implant of anti-hh ( 5e1 ; a , b , e , f ) or control anti-myhc ( n2.261 ; i , j ) hybridoma cell be place into hh21 - 24 chick wing bud and analyse two day later at hh27 - 30 for pan myhc ( a4.1025 ; a , c , e , g , i ) or slow myhc ( na8 ; b , d , f , h , j ) , in parallel with contralateral limb control ( c , d , g , h ) .
a - d . a less mature wing show failure of slow myhc expression ( arrow ) with little effect on overall muscle differentiation .
e - h . a more mature wing show reduce muscle differentiation , but slow myhc be present in the residual muscle mass .
i , j . control implant have no effect on timing , extent or type of muscle differentiation .
slow fibre be less abundant in some region , a in unmanipulated wing ( red arrow , g - j ) .
in this example , the cellagen block contain hybridoma cell detect by the secondary reagent be locate within the forewing region ( arrowhead ) but do not disrupt muscle pattern .
dorsal up , posterior to left .
contralateral image have be reverse to aid comparison .
figure 8
preferential inhibition of slow myogenesis by anti-hh antibody .
schematic drawing of 120 μm spaced section from each of the seven affect anti-hh implant limb and align contralateral control .
black outline show the dmm , red stipple indicate slow myhc .
drawing be make from identical low magnification image of adjacent section react immunohistochemically for a4.1025 or na8 .
two young limb ( hh27 / 28 ) show marked reduction in slow myhc , but little effect on dmm area .
slightly old limb show a reduction in slow myhc accompany a diminish muscle mass .
in two limb , the cellagen implant be present within the elbow region .
distal limb at top of stack , elbow at base .
within each section dorsal be up and anterior to left .
contralateral limb be flip horizontally to aid comparison .
murine hh knockout contain slow muscle fibre
the early loss , but late recovery , of slow myhc expression in anti-hh treat limb raise the possibility that the implant might lose effectiveness with time in vivo .
however , late implant have less effect on muscle growth ( 4 / 4 , data not show ) , argue that hh have less role in late myogenesis .
to examine the issue more definitively , we turn to mouse lack hh gene .
in the mouse , many slow fibre arise in deep region of the limb near to the source of ihh from develop long bone [ 61 , 62 ] .
a in other mammal , only a single slow myhc gene be know in mouse , but primary slow fibre do fall into two distinct population with different innervation and fate : deep fibre remain slow , superficial one turn fast [ 61 , 63 ] .
we , therefore , examine myogenesis in mouse lack ihh at a stage when deep slow fibre display their unique character .
hindlimb elongation be severely reduced in these animal , and this be accompany by a decrease in muscle tissue ( fig. 9a ) .
however , forelimb growth be relatively normal , and so be limb muscle content and pattern ( fig. 9b ) .
no obvious lack of slow myhc be observe in either fore - or hindlimb of ihh - / - mouse ( fig. 9a , 9b ) .
thus , ablation of ihh alone permit fairly good limb muscle patterning , similar to the situation in old chick limb in which hh signalling be reduce .
figure 9
murine hh knockout have inefficient differentiation and delay slow myogenesis .
a , b. hindlimb ( a ) or forelimb ( b ) from e18.5 ihh - / - or sibling mouse be cryo-sectioned and stain for slow ( a4.840 ) and fast ( n3.36 ) myhc .
c . whole e9.5 shh - / - or sibling embryo be cryo-sectioned and stain serially for pan ( a4.1025 ) or slow ( a4.840 ) myhc .
comparable anteroposterior level be show , base on the orientation of the heart elsewhere in the section .
s soleus , t tibialis anterior , e extensor digitorum longus , g gastrocnemius , t tibia , f fibula , u ulnar , r radius , a anterior , p posterior , d dorsal , v ventral , l lateral , m medial .
in shh - / - mouse limb outgrowth and muscle growth be severely curtail prevent meaningful analysis of muscle pattern [ 52 ] .
so we examine slow myhc expression in the reduce somitic muscle .
in wild - type e9.5 mouse , around 12 rostral somite contain differentiate muscle fibre express myhc ( fig. 9c ) .
slow fibre be observe in rostral somite , but not in the two - three caudalmost myhc - express somite ( n = 6 mouse ) .
in rostral somite , many fibre lack slow myhc , but express embryonic myhc ( fig. 9c and data not show ) .
this confirm that embryonic myhc be acquire before slow myhc in early muscle fibre [ 64 ] .
in section from shh - / - mouse , few differentiate fibre be present , but around eight somite contain differentiate muscle which be often mis-oriented ( 6 / 6 individual ; fig. 9c ) .
among residual fibre slow myhc be undetectable in most animal ( 5 / 6 ; fig. 9c ) .
the single animal contain slow myhc be developmentally more advanced , base on the presence of myhc in more somite .
thus lack of shh in somite lead to reduce early differentiation and delay slow myhc accummulation , a observe in chick limb treat with anti-hh antibody .
discussion
hitherto , all study of the action of hh on amniote muscle have fail to rule out indirect effect derive , for example , from hh elicit secondary signal from adjacent non-muscle cell .
here we show that hh can directly promote terminal differentiation and slow myhc accumulation by at least some myoblasts in cell culture .
we find that hh be require for the early definitive slow myogenesis in chick limb bud and use this new understanding to develop a simple model of a role of hh signalling in limb myogenesis .
hh directly induce muscle differentiation
the result present show that shh can promote the terminal differentiation of muscle fibre both in vivo and in vitro .
our observation that shh promote terminal differentiation of c2 cell ( fig. 2 ) definitively demonstrate that shh can be a myoblast differentiation factor , at least on this adult muscle - derive cell line .
this effect occur even in the presence of growth factor .
early limb myogenic cell in culture also respond to shh exposure by increase differentiation ( fig. 1 ) .
we also observe increase of muscle in shh - treat limb ( fig. 6 ) .
this be consistent with the numerous report show that shh increase muscle differentiation in explant culture or in vivo [ 14 , 25 , 33 , 52 , 53 , 65 ] .
conversely , and crucially , we find that local reduction of hh function in the chick wing reduce muscle differentiation ( fig 7 , 8 ) .
this suggest that lack of shh - drive myoblast differentiation may contribute to the severe reduction of muscle in early limb and somite in shh deficient mouse [ 14 , 52 ] .
it be , therefore , highly likely that one action of hh be the direct promotion of myoblast differentiation in develop chick wing bud .
a direct action of hh on myoblasts be also support by the rapid accumulation of gli1 mrna , a downstream target of hh signalling , in c2 cell and in limb .
in unmanipulated chick , significant level of ptc1 and gli1 mrna accumulate in muscle mass , be high in the posterior dmm ( fig. 4 ) .
this suggest that myogenic cell in both wing dmm and somite be expose to hh signal around the time of their first differentiation [ 13 , 49 , 59 , 66 , 67 ] .
which hh could promote muscle differentiation in limb ?
a the anti-hh antibody block the function of both shh and ihh [ 68 ] , our in vivo manipulation do not address this issue .
ihh be an obvious candidate , a ptc1 and gli1 expression be up - regulate in the posterior dmm at the time and location of commencement of ihh expression in cartilage anlage around hh27 [ 59 ] .
however , forelimb myogenesis in ihh - / - mouse appear relatively normal , although we can not rule out undetected transient defect .
even in ihh - / - hindlimb , where muscle differentiation be greatly reduce , it be impossible to ascribe this reduction to a direct action of ihh because failure of long bone elongation could prevent muscle growth through lack of stretch - induce hypertrophy signal .
similarly , shh be not absolutely require for the initiation of some murine limb muscle differentiation [ 52 ] .
however , gli1 expression suggest that shh signalling extend quite far into what we have call the pre-myogenic zone [ 47 ] in the distal limb until at least hh27 / 28 ( fig. 4 ) .
so differentiate myogenic cell may also be expose to low level of shh .
in zebrafish somite , distinct level of hh signalling elicit by the combine action of at least three hh gene lead to different myogenic outcome [ 18 , 69 - 72 ] .
so the additive effect of ihh and shh , perhaps have different effect at particular overall concentration , likely contribute to the sculpting of muscle differentiation .
hh and slow myogenesis
we find that shh have a consistent positive effect on slow myoblast differentiation .
differentiate chick wing myocytes express slow myhc more frequently after shh exposure in vitro ( fig. 1 ) or shh over-expression in vivo ( fig. 5 ) .
conversely , an early effect of block hh in the wing be failure of slow myhc accumulation ( fig 7 , 8 ) .
and shh - / - mouse have delay slow myhc accumulation in somite , perhaps due to loss of an early fibre population ( fig. 9 ) .
lastly , one line of c2 cell accumulate more slow myhc after shh exposure ( fig. 3 ) .
other c2 line that do not express significant level of slow myhc in control condition fail to up - regulate slow myhc in response to hh , perhaps indicate that hh be unable to open the slow myhc genomic locus .
both zebrafish and xenopus embryo require hh signalling to make some early population of slow fibre , but not others [ 73 , 74 ] .
this argue strongly that hh - drive slow myogenesis be an ancestral character of amniote .
nevertheless , a in low vertebrate , slow fibre formation do eventually occur in amniote with defective hh signalling .
indeed , consider the complex pattern of slow and fast fibre in old muscle , it be clear that many factor in addition to hh must be involve in establish the pattern .
our evidence suggest that hh act primarily during the early stage of limb myogenesis .
what be the relationship between the differentiation - promote and slow myhc - promote action of shh on c2 cell ?
whereas intracellular signalling and terminal differentiation be trigger rapidly in all c2 cell , slow myhc up - regulation require long shh exposure .
therefore , one can argue that differential cell survival could account for the shh - dependent increase in slow myhc , particularly a shh , or tissue that secrete it , have be show to promote survival of some myogenic cell [ 31 , 32 , 52 , 75 ] .
however , we think a purely survival effect be unlikely , for several reason .
first , slow myhc accumulation in single cell be great with shh , suggest induction rather than simply enhance survival .
second , assay for apoptosis in our c2 culture reveal very little cell death , and this be unaffected by shh exposure ( unpublished result ) .
third , blockade of hh in the wing bud reduce slow myhc without a proportional reduction in differentiate muscle ( fig 7 , 8 ) .
fourth , hh over-expression in vivo induce ectopic slow while simultaneously reduce total differentiation ( fig. 5 ) .
fifth , in culture zebrafish blastomeric cell , some of which spontaneously form muscle , shh induce conversion to a slow fate without affect cell survival [ 76 ] .
conversely , reduction of hh signalling in zebrafish prevent slow myogenesis without induce cell death [ 69 ] .
a alter cell survival do not explain the differentiation promote activity of hh , it seem unnecessary to invoke it in regard to slow myogenesis .
in c2 cell , blockade of apoptosis appear unlikely to explain the slow promoting activity of hh , leave promotion of slow differentiation a the prime explanation .
in vivo , the potential combination of direct and indirect effect of hh , possibly on several myoblast subset , make attribution of direct effect to hh action on myoblasts impossible ( see below ) .
nevertheless , our in vitro finding highlight direct induction of slow differentiation by hh a a mechanism require serious consideration .
could simply enhance terminal differentiation account for the increase in slow ?
in vivo manipulation fail to reveal a correlation between increase slow expression and enhance differentiation ( fig. 5 ) .
nor do the number of nucleus in a culture myotube ( a rough assay of maturity ) predict whether slow myhc be induce ( fig. 3 ) .
indeed , c2 / 4 cell differentiate well in response to shh but fail to show the up - regulation of slow myhc elicit by shh in c2x cell , which differentiate less extensively with or without shh .
in addition , not all myoblasts in any line respond similarly to shh exposure .
it seem probable , therefore , that both intrinsic and micro-environmental difference between myoblasts regulate their response to shh and could influence whether the response be simply terminal differentiation , or include other event , such a slow myhc accumulation .
myoblast hetereogeneity of response to hh
intrinsic myoblast heterogeneity , possibly base on cell lineage , may also influence hh response .
a with c2 cell , not all culture chick limb bud myoblasts respond similarly to shh exposure .
shh efficiently enhance terminal differentiation from 50 % to ~ 80 % of myogenic cell , show that at least 30 % of myogenic cell be likely to be shh - responsive .
however , only a few percent of chick myoblasts acquire slow myhc in response to shh ( fig. 1 ) .
early limb myogenic cell have distinct clonally - heritable tendency to either express slow myhc or not do so [ 3 , 45 , 48 , 77 ] .
we suggest that , while most myoblasts may be shh sensitive , sub-populations may respond differently base on their intrinsic capacity .
this view parallel that of stockdale and colleague base on experiment show difference in the myoblast population form distinct limb muscle [ 6 , 7 ] .
fibre in distinct muscle differ in slow myhc from their inception [ 1 ] .
so it be possible , by analogy with the situation in drosophila [ 8 ] that the increase in slow fibre reflect a change in muscle identity of founder myoblasts , rather than a direct induction of slow myhc .
alter myoblast identity could contribute to the failure of muscle splitting after shh over-expression in vivo .
thus , by show differential effect of shh on distinct clonal myoblast line that parallel those in primary culture and in vivo ( see below ) , our finding indicate that cell intrinsic difference determine the response of myogenic cell to hh .
in the zeugopod , the early muscle differentiation be reduce , but not ablate , by introduction of anti-hh antibody or in shh - / - mouse ( fig 7 , 8 ; [ 52 ] ) .
hh signalling be require for some but not all early somitic myogenesis [ 15 ] .
this show that some myoblast population do not require hh for differentiation .
in late limb , block hh reduce fibre formation and extra shh augment differentiation ( fig 5 , 6 , 7 , 8 ) .
similarly , hh blockade reduce slow myhc and shh over-expression augment slow fibre early , but have little or no effect on slow myhc expression in late muscle .
take together , these observation indicate that myoblasts generate the early fibre in the zeugopod ( before about hh28 ) may respond differently to hh from those contribute to dmm growth after this stage .
many limb signal other than hhs undoubtedly influence muscle pattern and likely affect the response to hh [ 78 , 79 ] .
resolution of whether myoblast lineage or environmental effect underlie this difference will be important .
indirect proliferative effect of hh on myogenic cell
direct pro-differentiative effect of hh on some myoblasts do not rule out other direct or indirect effect of hh .
our result confirm and extend previous report show that shh can induce proliferation of myoblasts [ 49 , 50 ] , both in limb bud and in primary culture .
however , other cell type be affect in limb because shh - treat limb be big ( fig. 6 ) .
there be good evidence for effect of hh on non-myogenic limb tissue .
shh over-expression cause limb hypertrophy with up - regulation of ptc1 and gli1 outside muscle mass and increase in non-myogenic tissue area ( fig 5 , 6 ) .
similarly , shh cause growth of non-myogenic as well a myogenic cell in our chick primary culture ( fig. 1 ) and in somite explants [ 32 ] .
conversely , inhibition of hh in wing with anti-hh antibody reduce limb growth in addition to reduce muscle mass size : this effect be first noticeable in non-muscle tissue ( fig 7 , 8 ) .
nobody have report a proliferative effect of shh on myoblasts independently of a proliferative effect on other cell .
on the contrary , in the c2 cell line we clearly find no mitogenic effect of shh ( fig. 2 ) .
moreover , in zebrafish , shh be not a mitogen for slow muscle precursor : muscle differentiation be delay in the sonic - you mutant that lack shh [ 69 ] and induce in embryo over-expressing shh [ 18 , 19 ] .
therefore , either chick wing cell respond differently to shh compare with other myoblasts or mitogenic effect of shh on myoblasts be indirect .
it be highly likely that hh action on non-myogenic cell lead to release of myoblast mitogen .
one hypothesis have already propose that shh act through bmps to amplify the number of myogenic cell [ 50 ] and bmp induction by ihh cause cartilage proliferation indirectly [ 68 ] .
so the temporary inhibition of terminal differentiation by shh over-expression in limb ( fig. 5 ; [ 50 ] ) may be a consequence of an indirect effect of hh signalling on myoblast proliferation .
combine our result with publish data , we propose a model in which hh promote muscle differentiation directly in myoblasts within the muscle mass .
but hh also promote myoblast proliferation indirectly by elicit muscle growth factor from non-myogenic limb cell .
this hypothesis explain how hh may contribute to growth of muscle mass by increase myoblasts at the edge , where proliferative signal from non-myogenic cell would predominate over the direct differentiative signal .
deeply within the muscle mass , pro-differentiative signal include hh would be in the ascendant , add new primary fibre at the periphery of the exist differentiate zone .
at early stage distinct level of hh signalling may trigger slow myogenesis , possibly in sub-populations of myoblasts .
once muscle splitting commence hh signalling decline , a indicate by reduce gli1 expression , and other influence probably determine the decision of late myoblasts to divide or differentiate .
muscle - specific ablation of hh responsiveness will be require to test this hypothesis definitively .
conclusion
we show that hh can directly promote myoblast differentiation , at least in vitro .
in vivo in chick limb bud , hh signalling be occur at the right time and place to affect early slow myogenesis .
we introduce a new methodology , cellagen implant of hybridoma cell secrete functionally - block antibody , and show that hh be require for proper early slow ( but not fast ) muscle differentiation .
conversely , hh over-expression induce ectopic early slow muscle in chick limb bud .
neither gain nor loss of late hh function affect differentiation of late - form slow muscle .
thus early limb hh level promote slow myogenesis , but be unlikely to be solely responsible for the detail of slow fibre pattern .
the data suggest a simple model of how direct and indirect effect of hh sculpt early limb myogenesis .
method
manipulate chick forelimb
chick embryo fibroblast ( cef ) be transfected with shh / rcas , a replication - competent retrovirus contain the entire cshh coding sequence .
anti-hh 5e1 hybridoma cell ( ~ 2 × 104 ) be embed in a 10 μl cellagen block .
pellet ( ~ 100 μm diameter ) or block fragment ( 2 μl ) be implant into rhode island red chick embryo right wing bud at hamburger and hamilton stage ( hh ) 21 - 24 , avoid complication due to skeletal pattern alteration by graft on the dorsal side in the future forewing region , a previously describe [ 49 ] .
embryo be maintain in a humidifier at 37 °c , for 2 – 4 day and analyse at hh27 - 29 ( e6 ) pre-splitting , and hh30 - 32 ( e7 / 8 ) mid / post-splitting of dmm into it component muscle .
embryo be fix at - 20 °c in methanol , rehydrated in grade pb , soak for 2 hr in 20 % sucrose , transfer to a 2 : 1 mixture of 20 % sucrose and tissue - tek cryoprotectant ( bright ) , experimental and contralateral wing align and freeze in a single block and cryosectioned .
primary monoclonal antibody supernatant of a4.1025 [ 80 ] , ba - d5 , a4.840 and n3.36 [ 81 ] be dilute 1 : 10 [ 61 , 80 ] .
eb165 and na8 ascites , gift of e. bandman ( university of california , davis ) be use at 1 : 5000 [ 57 , 82 ] .
to detect ectopic shh protein , 5e1 supernatant [ 83 ] be dilutied 1 : 10 .
mf20 and most other antibody use in this study be available from developmental study hybridoma bank .
first antibody be detect with biotin - conjugate horse - derive anti-mouse igg , or a biotin - conjugate goat - derive anti-mouse igm ( vector ) and abc vectastain kit a describe [ 18 ] .
in situ mrna hybridisation be after [ 49 ] .
identification of chick forewing muscle be accord to [ 84 ] and staging base on limb and muscle mass morphology accord to [ 41 ] .
primary culture
follow the method of stockdale [ 3 , 85 ] , both forelimb be remove from embryo around hh22 in dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium ( dmem , sigma ) .
limb be wash with sterile pb , incubate with trypsin : edta ( gibco ) for 10 min , dissociate by trituration and the cell wash , filter through two 80 μm pore filter ( gibco ) and pre-plated on a 90 mm collagen - coat dish for 10 min at 37 °c .
after this incubation period , 30 – 40 % of cell stick to the dish but few than 1 : 1000 be myogenic .
non-adherent cell be collect and plat in triplicate at either 2 × 105 ( low density ) or 4 × 105 ( high density ) cell per nunc 35 mm plate in either unconditioned dmem with 10 % horse serum ( h ) and 2 % chick embryo extract ( cee ) or medium that have be condition for 24 hour on 90 % confluent rcas / shh infect qt6 quail fibroblast ( shhqt6 ) or the parent qt6 fibroblast [ 49 , 86 ] .
fresh medium ( condition or not ) be add after 24 hour , and the cell fix 50 – 55 hr after plating .
prior to conditioning qt6 and shhqt6 cell be maintain in dmem 10 % foetal bovine serum ( fbs - gibco ) and 2 % chick serum ( gibco ) .
culture be wash in pb , fix for 5 min in - 20 °c methanol , rehydrated in pb and stain a for the cryosections .
replicate dish be singly stain with antibody a4.840 to detect slow myhc , a4.1025 to detect pan-myhc and anti-desmin ( sigma , 1 : 500 dilution ) to detect both myoblasts and myotubes .
dual immunofluorescence show that all myhc - reactive cell be strongly desmin - reactive and that immunohistochemistry be more sensitive ( data not show ) .
total nuclear ( cell ) number be count on a zeiss axioplan 2 microscope in ten separate 10 x field on each dish .
all nucleus within immunohistochemically - stain cell be count on each dish .
growth and addition of shh condition medium to mouse myoblasts
c2 cell be obtain from three source i ) c2c12 from atcc , ii ) c2 / 4 from y. nabeshima and iii ) c2x which arise in late passage culture of c2c12 from the lab of h. blau .
all be maintain on plastic by standard procedure prior to plat on collagen - coat glass chamber slide ( 16 - well , lab - tek , nalge nunc international , usa ) in dmem 10 % fbs , 2 % chick serum with antibiotic and differentiate by switch to dmem 2 % h .
condition medium be create by incubate qt6 or shhqt6 cell for 36 hour with either growth or differentiation medium .
each qt6 cell culture be use to condition only a single batch of medium .
purify shh be synthesise in vitro and the biologically active proportion of the protein in each preparation be unknown , low and vary between batch ( p. ingham and t. jessell personal communication ) so no meaningful concentration can be give .
c2 cell be fix with methanol , stain by dual immunofluorescence with a4.840 , a4.1025 and / or ba - d5 use class - specific secondary reagent ( jackson ) and view under epifluorescence on a zeiss axiophot .
unless otherwise state quantitation of differentiation be by score the number of nucleus in myhc - contain cytoplasm ( i.e. the number of c2 cell that differentiate into myocytes , whether or not these subsequently fuse ) .
bromodeoxyuridine be add for the last two hour of a 24 hour culture in qt6 or qt6shh conditioned growth medium .
in situ hybridisation be perform on chamber slide culture fix with 4 % paraformaldehyde follow by methanol and employ digoxigenin - label riboprobes essentially a describe [ 87 ] .
author ' contribution
xl perform the c2 experiment .
csb analyse chick culture , shh over-expression in limb bud and mouse mutant .
hb repeat the shh over-expression , perform wholemount in situs and do the hh knockdown .
mab and dd implant rcasshh cell and do section in situs .
smh conceive and coordinate the study and write the manuscript with help from dd .
all author approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgment
we thank everett bandman for antibody , tom jessell for antibody , 5e1 hybridoma cell and mouse shh protein , peter currie and philip ingham for zebrafish shh protein , alex joyner , andrew lumsden and susanne dietrich for cdna , andy mcmahon for ihh - / - mouse , chin chiang for shh - / - mouse and abi jensen , graham dunn , pete currie and phil ingham for advice .
smh be support by mrc and eu qlk6 - 2000 - 530 , xl by an ec biomed 2 ageing grant , and dd by the cnrs .
csb hold a mrc phd studentship and part of this work be report in his phd thesis ( london university , 1999 ) .
identification of collagen - induce arthritis locus in aged multiparous female mouse
abstract
collagen - induce arthritis in mouse be one of the most commonly use autoimmune experimental model , with many similarity to rheumatoid arthritis .
since collagen - induce arthritis be a complex polygenic disease there be a need for identification of several major disease - control gene .
because rheumatoid arthritis particularly affect aged woman , we have in the present study identify new genetic region critical for collagen - induce arthritis by study aged female mouse of a cross between nfr / n and b10.q ( h - 2q haplotype ) .
the mouse in the present study have different reproductive history , which do not significantly affect the onset , incidence or severity of the disease .
a total of 200 female mouse be use in a total genome - wide screening with 125 microsatellite marker .
we find one new significant quantitative trait locus affect the arthritis incidence , severity and day of onset on chromosome 11 ( denote cia40 ) , which colocalizes with a locus control pregnancy failure .
furthermore , a quantitative trait locus of suggestive significance associate with the incidence , severity and day of onset be identify on chromosome 1 .
finally , a suggestively significant quantitative trait locus associate with collagen type ii antibody titer be identify on chromosome 13 .
this study indicate that several gene locus control arthritis in aged multiparous female , and that at least one of these locus coincide with pregnancy failure .
introduction
the similarity between rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) in man and collagen - induce arthritis ( cia ) in mouse be well establish , although difference in the disease pattern exist [ 1 - 3 ] .
characteristic of ra be the fact that woman of reproductive age be more susceptible to the disease than men [ 4 ] .
it have also be report that 75 % of female patient ( 23 out of 31 female ) with ra exhibit clinical remission during the course of pregnancy [ 5 ] .
on the other hand , it have be suggest that the onset of ra be postpone by parity .
the risk of onset be reduce during pregnancy , while in the first year postpartum the chance of onset be increase [ 6 , 7 ] .
the result of a recent study of ra in woman , however , indicate that pregnancy history do not increase the incidence of the disease later in life [ 8 ] .
adequate animal model be useful tool for the identification of gene involve in complex human disease .
cia in mouse share both immunological and pathological characteristic with human ra and be one of the most use model for the identification of gene and mechanism involve in arthritis .
the incidence of cia be sex dependent , like the incidence in ra , although different specie and different variant of the disease could lead to both male and female predominance .
male mouse be more often affect than female .
gender difference in cia susceptibility be dependent on many factor , include genetic , hormonal and behavioral influence [ 9 ] .
however , isolate factor be remarkably consistent between ra and the different animal model [ 3 , 9 ] .
pregnancy in mouse , like pregnancy in woman , normally cause remission of arthritis [ 5 , 10 ] , while exacerbation often occur postpartum [ 7 , 10 , 11 ] .
pregnancy - induce remission of cia in mouse appear to be cause by the increase in estrogen level , while the postpartum exacerbation can be explain by the dramatic drop in estrogen [ 10 ] , possibly together with increase prolactin level [ 11 ] .
to what extent the pregnancy history ( parity ) affect the incidence of cia later in life have , to our knowledge , not previously be study .
importantly , ra occur predominantly in woman , many of which have have several child , and it be therefore appropriate to also mimic this situation use animal model .
in the present paper we have analyze female mouse that previously have undergo a reproductive study ( liljander m , sällström ma , andersson s , wernhoff p , andersson å , holmdahl r , mattsson r , unpublished data ) .
a total of 200 female mouse ( ten month of age ) of the n2 backcross between nfr / n and c57bl / b10.q ( b10.q ) be use to analyze the genetic control of cia in aged female with a multiparous history .
material and method
mouse
inbred nfr / n mouse be originally obtain from the national institute of health ( bethesda , md , usa ) and the b10.q mouse be originally buy from the jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , me , usa ) .
( b10q × nfr / n ) f1 hybrid and ( b10.q × nfr / n ) × b10.q n2 mouse be breed in individual ventilate cage in the bmc barrier animal facility and at the animal house of the department of pathology , lund university , sweden .
the animal be feed ad libitum with standard rodent chow ( lab for r36 , irradiate breed food for rat and mouse ; lactamin ab , stockholm , sweden ) and water in a photoperiod of 12 hour : 12 hour light : dark .
the mouse use in the present study have clean health monitoring protocol accord to the federation of european laboratory animal science association recommendation .
ethical permission be m125 - 04 ( embryo transfer ) and m290 - 03 ( reproduction and arthritis ) .
experimental design
a total of 200 female mouse ( approximately ten month old ) of n2 backcross ( b10.q × nfr / n ) × b10.q be use .
the mouse have earlier undergo a reproductive study where each animal have four mating opportunity .
first , the female mouse be allow to mate twice with b10.riii male ( allogeneic mating by mean of mhc ( major histocompatibility complex ) and finally to mate twice with b10.q male ( syngeneic mating by mean of mhc ) .
after four possible pregnancy cia be induce to the female mouse .
induction and evaluation of cia
to induce cia , the mouse be immunize subcutaneously at the base of the tail with 100 μg rat collagen type ii ( cii ) emulsify in 0.1 m acetic acid combine with an equal amount of complete freud 's adjuvant ( difco laboratory , detroit , mi , usa ) .
a booster injection contain 50 μg cii emulsify in 0.1 m acetic acid combine with an equal amount of freud 's incomplete adjuvant ( difco laboratory ) be give after 30 day .
the clinical scoring of arthritis commence 25 day after the first immunization .
animal be examine for clinical sign of cia three time per week and be grade on a 12 - point scale .
the arthritis index be assign to each mouse use the follow criterion : 0 = no visible sign of arthritis , 1 = redness and swelling in a single joint , 2 = inflammation in multiple joint , and 3 = severe inflammation in the entire paw and / or anklebone .
each paw be give the score 0 – 3 , with the index be the sum of all four paw .
the severity trait be the maximum score observe in each individual female .
the onset be the number of day calculate from the first immunization to the first clinical sign of arthritis exclude unaffected animal .
microsatellite genotyping and linkage analysis
tail biopsy be collect from all n2 female and the f0 generation .
dna be isolate accord to a previously describe protocol [ 12 ] .
after screening of parental dna with approximately 450 mouse fluorescence - label microsatellite marker ( interactiva , ulm , germany ) , 125 informative marker be select cover the genome .
two hundred and thirty - seven n2 mouse be genotyped with marker cover all chromosome except for the y chromosome .
pcr amplification for the marker be perform in a final volume of 10 μl in a 96 - well v - bottom microtiter plate use 20 ng dna , 10 mm kcl , 20 mm tris – hcl , 10 mm ( nh4 ) 2so4 , 2 mm mgcl2 , 0.1 % triton x - 100 , ph 8.8 ( new england biolabs inc. , ipswich , ma , usa ) , 3 μm ( 10 pmol ) each primer , 2 mm dntps ( advanced biotechnology , epsom , surrey , uk ) and 0.25 u taq dna polymerase ( new england biolabs inc. ) .
the follow program be use to amplify the dna : denaturation at 95 °c for 3 minute , anneal at 56 °c for 45 second , polymerization at 72 °c for 1 minute , 30 cycle of 95 °c for 30 second , 56 °c for 45 second and 72 °c for 1 minute , and a final extension step of 7 minute at 72 °c .
the pcr product be analyze on a megabace ™ 1000 ( amersham pharmacia biotech inc piscataway , nj , usa ) accord to the manufacturer 's protocol .
data be analyze with genetic profiler 1.1 ( amersham pharmacia biotech inc ) .
map manager qtxb20 free software [ 13 ] be use to perform linkage analysis and the permutation test .
ninety percent of the mouse genome be within a 20 cm intermarker distance .
the marker map be generate use the kosambis map function and 1,000 permutation be perform for every phenotype ( p < 0.05 ) .
the permutation test be carry out to establish empirical significance threshold for the interaction .
a threshold equal to or above the 37th percentile ( p = 0.63 ) be consider suggestively significant , and the level for the significant threshold be set to the 95th percentile ( p = 0.05 ) .
interval mapping be make with a 2 cm increase under the additive regression model in order to calculate the test statistic .
enzyme - link immunosorbent assay
the adult female mouse be sacrifice at 15 month of age and serum be collect .
anti-cii antibody titer in serum be analyze by a sandwich elisa technique [ 14 ] .
in brief , cii ( 10 μg / ml ) be couple to immunosorbent plate overnight at 4 °c .
bovine serum albumin ( sigma chemical st louis , mo , usa ) be use for blocking , and thereafter different dilution of control serum ( purify mouse anti-cii antibody ) , test serum , and positive and negative control be add .
the presence of cii - specific igg be visualize by mean of peroxidase - conjugate goat antimouse igg .
statistical analysis
statistical comparison between the different experimental group be perform use the mann - whitney u test or student 's unpaired t test .
result
nfr / n female mouse show delay onset and low incidence of cia compare with b10.q female
the onset of the disease be significantly delay in nfr / n mouse , which result in low incidence in the initial phase of the disease ( table 1 and figure 1 ) .
the appearance of the arthritis be slightly different between the two strain , nfr / n mouse show a high frequency of swelling of the entire paw than b10.q mouse .
later in the disease course the difference in cia frequency and severity between the strain be less obvious .
however , the anti-cii titer 100 day after primary immunization ( and 70 day after the booster ) differ significantly between nfr / n and b10.q female mouse ( see table 1 ) .
pregnancy history do not significantly affect incidence or severity of cia in female mouse of mixed genetic background
table 2 present the result of arthritic incidence , arthritis onset and maximum arthritic score for the female mouse of the n2 generation , ( nfr / n × b10.q ) × b10.q , group accord to the number of pregnancy they have experience prior to immunization with cii .
there be no significant difference in the incidence or severity of arthritis depend on the number of pregnancy that have be pass prior to the induction of the disease .
we observe a trend towards low severity in multiparous mouse compare with mouse with a history of zero to two pregnancy .
the onset of disease , however , be early in mouse that have pass more than one pregnancy .
there be no difference in the development of the disease between female mouse that have only be pregnant with mhc mismatch male ( b10.riii ) and female mouse that only have be pregnant with mhc match male ( b10.q ) .
new locus associate with cia in identify old female mouse
the genetic linkage analysis reveal one significant quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) locate at 64 – 70 cm on chromosome 11 ( table 3 and figure 2 ) .
this locus ( denote cia40 ) give significant lod score for the trait incidence ( lod = 4.1 ) and ' day of onset ' ( lod = 4.0 ) , and a suggestive lod score for the trait ' arthritis score ' ( lod = 3.3 ) .
another qtl of suggestive significance for the incidence of disease be identify around 27 cm on chromosome 1 ( figure 2 ) .
finally , a suggestive qtl for the trait anti-cii antibody titer be identify on chromosome 13 ( figure 2 ) .
discussion
although carry the same cia - susceptible mhc region , the nfr / n and b10.q mouse be different in several respect .
the nfr / n mouse , which be an inbred nmri mouse of the h - 2q haplotype , be large in size than the b10.q mouse and be also know for it extraordinarily good breeding property .
the mouse use in the present study , ( nfr / n × b10.q ) × b10.q female , first undergo a genetic study of reproduction , in which a number of locus associate with breeding performance be identify ( liljander m , sällström ma , andersson s , wernhoff p , andersson å , holmdahl r , mattsson r ; unpublished data ) .
since the parental strain differ in susceptibility to cia , in spite of both have the mhc class ii a beta gene [ 15 ] , we want to test the susceptibility to inflammatory disease in mouse from this cross .
in fact , this situation give an opportunity to study the genetic control of arthritis in aged multiparous female , a common situation in human ra .
this susceptibility be important to investigate for various reason .
the fact that the mouse differ in their reproductive history make it possible to analyze whether this would significantly affect the incidence or severity of cia .
second , almost all the linkage analysis perform for detection of cia - associate locus in mouse have be carry out with male mouse .
another reason be that the use of old multiparous mouse mimic the ra situation ( old woman be the major risk group ) .
finally , the nfr / n strain have not previously be use in linkage analysis for detection of cia - associate locus , which open ( up ) the possibility of detect new polymorphic gene of importance in this disease .
the first conclusion from the present paper be that multiparity do not negatively influence the incidence or severity of cia induce later in life ( table 2 ) .
this be in agreement with result from a recent study of ra in woman , which similarly indicate that previous experience of pregnancy do not negatively affect the incidence or severity of ra later in life [ 8 ] .
it be worth note that the situation be quite different if pregnancy be enter during ongoing arthritis .
this will normally lead to a temporary remission of the disease in both mouse and human , follow by an exacerbation phase after delivery [ 7 , 10 , 11 ] .
the second conclusion from this study be that locus of possible importance for cia have be detect , two associate with arthritis susceptibility ( chromosome 1 and 11 ) and one associate with anti-cii titer ( chromosome 13 ) .
some arthritis locus have previously be identify on chromosome 1 : cia15 at 8 cm [ 16 ] , cia20 at 44 cm [ 16 ] and cia9 at 92 cm [ 17 ] .
however , none of these locus appear to be close to the locus find on chromosome 1 in the present study .
the newly identify cia40 locus include the ctla4 ( cd152 ) gene , which be a strong candidate associate with spontaneous diabetes identify in cross between c57bl and nonobese diabetic strain [ 18 ] .
analysis of cia in cross of the same background , however , do not identify a linkage to this locus , suggest that the polymorphism underlie cia40 differ from the gene associate with diabetes [ 18 ] .
interestingly , bauer and colleague previously identify a locus ( cia28 ) associate with anti-cii antibody production at 53 cm on chromosome 13 [ 19 ] , which be approximately at the same position a where we find the linkage for this trait in the present study .
it be therefore most likely that the qtl we have identify on chromosome 13 be the same a cia28 .
since the possible new locus of potential interest on chromosome 1 be of suggestive significance , and since the locus identify on chromosome 13 probably be cia28 , we be now pay special attention to the significant qtl for cia incidence detect at 60 – 70 cm on chromosome 11 ( denote cia40 ) .
no other cia gene have previously be type in this region , but the central part of chromosome 11 be know to contain a number of inflammation locus , such a eae22 , eae6b , eae23 and eae7 [ 20 - 22 ] .
one qtl for proteoglycan - induce arthritis , which be female specific for disease onset , have also be find on chromosome 11 .
although this locus ( pgia28 ) be not locate in the vicinity of cia40 , it be worth note [ 23 ] .
the mouse chromosome 11 contain several gene that be highly conserved with human chromosome 17 .
linkage for human ra have be find in this particular region [ 24 ] .
another interesting locus be cia5 on the homolog rat chromosome 10 , which regulate the severity of cia and pristane - induce arthritis [ 25 ] .
interestingly , from study with the same cross , we have previously detect a significant qtl denote pregq2 for the trait ' pregnancy frequency ' in the very same region a cia40 ( peak at 64 – 70 cm on chromosome 11 ) ( liljander m , sällström ma , andersson s , wernhoff p , andersson å , holmdahl r , mattsson r , unpublished data ) .
this mean that this region contain gene affect the cia incidence in multiparous mouse in addition to the rate of successful delivery in female mouse .
the ' pregnancy rate ' in mouse be define a successful pregnancy per detect vaginal plug , a phenotype associate with early pregnancy failure , which in turn possibly could have an inflammatory cause .
we can not exclude that the same gene ( s ) be affect both these trait .
conclusion
our result show that multiparity do not negatively influence the incidence or severity of cia induce later in life .
furthermore , two new locus link to cia susceptibility be detect on chromosome 11 ( cia40 ) and on chromosome 1 .
we detect on chromosome 13 a locus associate with anti-cii titer , which probably be the same a the recently report cia28 [ 19 ] .
abbreviation
cia = collagen - induce arthritis ; cii = collagen type ii ; lod = logarithm of the odds ; mhc = major histocompatibility complex ; pcr = polymerase chain reaction ; qtl = quantitative trait locus ; ra = rheumatoid arthritis .
compete interest
the author declare that they have no compete interest .
author ' contribution
ml be responsible for genotyping , phenotyping , analysis and , together with rm , for interpretation and for write the manuscript .
m - a and sa have contribute to collection of phenotype data .
rm , åa , rh and ml design the study .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
this study be support by österlund 's fund , crafoord 's fund , the gustav v 80 year foundation , the royal physiographic society in lund and by swegene .
figure and table
figure 1
the accumulate incidence of arthritis in the parental strain ( nfr / n and b10.q ) of female mouse .
figure 2
chromosomal location of the quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) for collagen - induce arthritis incidence on chromosome 1 and 11 .
qtl for collagen type ii ( cii ) antibody titer be illustrate on chromosome 13 .
* suggestive level threshold ( p = 0.63 ) accord to the permutation test ( n = 1,000 ) .
** significance level threshold ( p = 0.05 ) accord to the permutation test ( n = 1,000 ) .
table 1
severity of arthritis and anti-collagen type ii ( anti-cii ) titer in ( nfr / n × b10.q ) × b10.q female mouse and parental strain
a median value on the day of onset when calculate in all arthritic mouse in the group on day 100 ( maximum – minimum value in the series ) .
b mean ± standard error of the maximum score from all arthritic mouse in the respective group .
c significantly high than in b10.q mouse ( p = 0.02 in student 's unpaired t test ) .
table 2
incidence , onset and maximum score in ( nfr / n × b10.q ) × b10.q female mouse
a median value on the day of onset when calculate in all arthritic mouse in the group ( maximum – minimum value in the series ) .
b mean ( ± standard error ) of the maximum score from all arthritic mouse in the respective group on day 100 .
table 3
distribution of genotype between affected and unaffected n2 mouse at different locus link to clinical phenotype of collagen - induce arthritis
* suggestive significance , ** significant .
genetic and genomic analysis of a fat mass trait with complex inheritance reveal marked sex specificity
abstract
the integration of expression profiling with linkage analysis have increasingly be use to identify gene underlie complex phenotype .
the effect of gender on the regulation of many physiological trait be well documented ; however , “ genetical genomic ” analysis have not yet address the degree to which their conclusion be affect by sex .
we construct and densely genotyped a large f2 intercross derive from the inbred mouse strain c57bl / 6j and c3h / hej on an apolipoprotein e null ( apoe − / − ) background .
this bxh.apoe − / − population recapitulate several “ metabolic syndrome ” phenotype .
the cross consist of 334 animal of both sex , allow u to specifically test for the dependence of linkage on sex .
we detect several thousand liver gene expression quantitative trait locus , a significant proportion of which be sex - bias .
we use these analysis to dissect the genetics of gonadal fat mass , a complex trait with sex - specific regulation .
we present evidence for a remarkably high degree of sex - dependence on both the ci and trans regulation of gene expression .
we demonstrate how these analysis can be apply to the study of the genetics underlie gonadal fat mass , a complex trait show significantly female - bias heritability .
these data have implication on the potential effect of sex on the genetic regulation of other complex trait .
synopsis
although their genome be nearly identical , the male and female of a specie exhibit striking difference in many trait , include complex trait such a obesity .
this study combine genetic and genomic tool to identify in parallel quantitative trait locus ( qtls ) for a measure of gonadal fat mass and for expression of transcript in the liver .
the result be use to explore the relationship between genetic variation , sexual differentiation , and obesity in the mouse model .
use over 300 intercross progeny of two inbred mouse strain , five locus in the genome be find to be highly correlated with abdominal fat mass .
four of the five locus exhibit opposite effect on obesity in the two sex , a phenomenon know a sexual antagonism .
to identify candidate gene that may be involve in obesity through their expression in the liver , global gene expression analysis be employ use microarrays .
many of these expression qtls also show sex - specific effect on transcription .
a hotspot for trans - act qtls regulate the expression of transcript whose abundance be correlate with gonadal fat mass be identify on chromosome 19 .
this region of the genome colocalizes with a clinical qtl for gonadal fat mass , suggest that it harbor a good candidate gene for obesity .
introduction
female and male share nearly identical genetic information , but vary widely with respect to disease susceptibility [ 1 , 2 ] .
apart from the obvious gender - specific disease such a cervical or prostate cancer , sex influence susceptibility to nearly all highly prevalent disease that affect both woman and men , include atherosclerosis and diabetes and their precursor condition of hyperlipidemia , obesity , and insulin resistance .
these be multifactorial in their pathogenesis , encompass environmental and behavioral aspect , as well a significant genetic determination , on which these other factor interact .
the genetic component be multigenic , with the heritability embed in the genetic variation intrinsic to our population .
although the sex difference in disease susceptibility be recognize , the interplay between sex and gene expression that be at the basis of these difference be not well understood .
female and male inherit ( on average ) the same gene that may be risk factor , but their expression and effect on disease risk vary significantly .
an understanding and recognition of the significance of specific disease - associate polymorphism / mutation in the context of sex be therefore of critical clinical importance .
we have utilize the mouse a a model system to study the genetics of metabolic and vascular disease [ 3 – 5 ] .
rather than focus initially on natural or induce mutant of single gene , we utilize the complex endogenous genetic variation between strain in genetic cross to identify causative genetic locus and ultimately the underlie variation responsible for trait difference [ 6 ] .
this design more closely reflect the situation face when study human population .
the genetic composition of each individual mouse be restrict to that of the two parental strain and be define at every locus across the genome .
the application of quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) analysis allow the identification of those chromosomal region that contain a genetic variation that influence trait expression ( for a comprehensive review on qtls see [ 7 ] ) .
we [ 5 , 8 ] , and others [ 9 – 17 ] , have recently extend the power of this approach by incorporate genome - wide gene expression array analysis , which allow u to model the “ genetics of gene expression ” use similar method .
an immediate extension of this approach be toward dissect the genetic regulation of complex phenotype , which would greatly improve the progression from candidate locus to candidate gene .
here we report the application of this integrate approach to study the significance of sex on the genetic determinant of obesity and the associate regulation of liver gene expression in an f2 intercross derive from the inbred strain c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) and c3h / hej ( c3h ) on an apolipoprotein e null ( apoe − / − ) background .
the bxh.apoe − / − population be design to recapitulate several of the phenotype associate with the so - call metabolic syndrome .
the cross consist of 334 animal of both sex , allow u to specifically test for the dependence of qtls on sex .
we detect several thousand gene expression qtls ( eqtls ) , a significant proportion of which be sex - bias .
we use these analysis to dissect the genetic regulation of the gonadal fat mass trait and to identify gene associate with the trait .
result
qtls associate with gonadal fat mass
characteristic of the b6.apoe − / − and c3h.apoe − / − parent and the f2 bxh.apoe − / − generation on a western diet be summarize in table 1 .
gonadal fat mass differ significantly between the sex in f2 ( p < 10 − 4 ) and in the parental c3h.apoe − / − ( p < 0.05 ) , but not in b6.apoe − / − mouse .
gonadal fat mass be the fat pad collection that represent the most animal and the most accurate collection and be thus choose for further analysis .
broad sense heritability ( h2 ) calculate a ( σ2total − σ2parental ) / σ2total for the gonadal fat mass trait be 54 % for female and 36 % for male , which be in close agreement with previous report [ 18 , 19 ] and demonstrate significant heritability of gonadal fat mass .
a total of 334 f2 mouse be genotyped at an average 1.5 cm density use 1,032 single nucleotide polymorphism ( snp ) span all 19 autosome .
qtl analysis for several clinical trait ( clinical qtls [ cqtls ] ) , include the unadjusted raw value for gonadal fat mass , be perform use a single marker regression approach ( justify by the high - density of marker , make interval mapping unnecessary ) .
in order to test specifically for sex effect of linkage , we include additive , dominant , sex , sex - additive , and sex - dominant parameter in our calculation ( see material and method ) .
a stepwise regression procedure be use to determine whether the addition of the final two term significantly improve the linear regression model , conditional on realize a significant additive qtl effect .
we perform permutation analysis over all gene expression trait , estimate false discovery rate ( fdr ) at different logarithm of odds ( lod ) score threshold and assess the overall rate of qtl detection .
from these analysis we construct receiver operating characteristic ( roc ) - like curve to demonstrate that our straightforward method have significantly increased power to detect qtls compare to qtl mapping method that do not incorporate sex and genotype – sex interaction ( figure s1 ) .
it be clear from the roc curve that the sex and sex - interaction term add significantly to the detection of qtl for the gene expression trait .
use previously describe convention [ 20 ] , qtl model without the final two interaction term ( sex * add and sex * dom ) have a suggestive threshold of 3.0 ( p < 1 × 10 − 3 ) and a significant threshold of 4.3 ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 , genome - wide p < 0.05 ) .
qtl model incorporate only the sex * add interaction term in addition to the additive term have one extra degree of freedom that lead to a correspond increase in the lod score threshold to 3.5 ( suggestive ) and 4.9 ( significant ) for the 0.001 and 0.00005 p - value threshold , respectively .
qtl model incorporate both sex * add and sex * dom interaction term possess two extra degree of freedom , with a correspond increase in lod score threshold to 4.0 ( suggestive ) and 5.4 ( significant ) for the 0.001 and 0.00005 p - value threshold , respectively .
one suggestive ( chromosome 1 ) and four significant ( chromosome 3 , 5 , 11 , and 19 ) cqtls for the gonadal fat mass trait be identify ( figure 1a ; table 2 ) .
four out of the five cqtls show statistically significant good fit with the full model incorporate the interaction term sex * add and sex * dom , compare to the model include only the additive term .
interestingly , the cqtl over chromosome 11 do not improve , suggest that the additional term do not contribute to improve detection of this locus .
table 2 summarize the position and lod score of maximal linkage for each cqtl .
while the focus of this study be the gonadal fat mass trait , it be note that a genome scan for the adiposity trait result in cqtls at the same location , with very similar lod score and sex dependence ( unpublished data ) .
result from the various regression model use to determine linkage for the chromosome 5 cqtl be depict in figure 1b .
analysis of all animal with and without sex a a covariate fail to demonstrate evidence of linkage on chromosome 5 .
when female be analyze alone , a suggestive lod score of 3.7 be realize ( p = 2 × 10 − 4 ) ; male analyze alone do not demonstrate evidence for linkage .
however , use all 334 animal and add the interaction term to the qtl model significantly improve sensitivity , and a cqtl with a maximum lod of 7.56 ( p = 1.7 × 10 − 6 ) be realize .
give the improve detection of four of the five cqtls when sex - additive and sex - dominant interaction term be consider , we hypothesize that the main genotype effect of these cqtls on the gonadal fat mass trait would differ between the sex ( figure 2 ) .
indeed , cqtls locate on chromosome 1 , 3 , and 5 show oppose effect on fat mass , or sex antagonism .
the effect of the cqtl on chromosome 11 be in the same direction in both male and female , but be sex - bias toward a large effect in female ( r2 = 0.091 in female versus r2 = 0.046 in male ) , confirm the minimal sex specificity of this cqtl .
the cqtl on chromosome 19 show a sex - specific effect in female , with no effect in male .
overall , all five cqtls for gonadal fat mass be biased toward a large effect in female .
assume purely additive effect of each genotype , these cqtls account for approximately 42 % of the variation in female f2 mouse and 13 % in male , consistent with the narrow sense heritability estimate for this trait and again demonstrate significant difference in the regulation and heritability of the gonadal fat trait between the sex .
liver eqtls
liver from 312 f2 animal ( 156 female , 156 male ) be profile use oligonucleotide microarrays manufacture by agilent technology ( palo alto , california , united state ) , which include probe for 23,574 mouse transcript .
individual transcript intensity be correct for experimental variation and normalize and be report a the mean log10 ratio ( mlratio ) of an individual experiment relative to a pool compose of 150 mouse randomly select from the f2 population [ 21 ] .
each measurement be fit to an error model and assign a significance measurement ( type i error ) .
a heat map of the 2,320 transcript most differentially express ( p < 0.05 in 10 % or more of animal ) relative to the pool be depict in figure 3 .
this selection of gene be not biased on a priori known differential expression between the sex , linkage , or correlation with a clinical phenotype .
this be noteworthy because hierarchical clustering of these transcript against the 312 f2 mouse show an almost perfect clustering into male and female subgroup , emphasize striking effect of sex on liver gene expression level and suggest that sex be control more variance in these transcript ' expression than any other parameter .
the expression value of the 23,574 transcript be treat a quantitative trait and fit to the same linear regression model use to compute lod score for clinical trait ( eqtls ) .
the fdr at each threshold be determine by permute the data 100 time and take the mean number of qtls detect over all of the permute datasets at a given threshold , and divide this count by the number of qtls detect at the same threshold in the observe data .
at the threshold for significant linkage ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 , genome - wide p < 0.05 , base on a single trait ) , the fdr be estimate at 3.4 % for the standard qtl model not account for any sex term , 3.1 % for the qtl model account for additive sex effect , and 3.2 % for the qtl model account for additive sex effect and allow for the sex interaction term to enter the model .
a list of all detect suggestive ( p < 1 × 10 − 3 ) and significant eqtls ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 ) detect in the bxh.apoe − / − intercross be provide in table s1 .
characteristic of the eqtls at different significance level be summarize in table 3 and show graphically in figure 4 .
we detect 6,676 eqtls represent 4,998 transcript at the 5 × 10 − 5 significant level .
of these , 2,118 eqtls be locate within 20 mb ( roughly 10 cm ) of the correspond gene , likely represent eqtls regulate by ci - act variation within the gene itself .
of the 6,676 significant eqtls , 1,166 ( 17 % ) demonstrate a sex bias and be subsequently significantly improve with the addition of the sex - additive and sex - dominant term .
the distribution of all 6,676 significant eqtls ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 ) across the genome in 2 cm bin be show in figure 4a .
evidence for eqtl hotspot be clear on chromosome 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , 6 , and 7 where significant fraction of the 6,676 eqtls colocalize within 2 cm region on each chromosome .
approximately 67 % of eqtls at this threshold be trans , and these eqtl hotspot consist primarily of trans - act effect on transcriptional variation .
distribution of the 1,166 eqtls with significant sex effect , of which 852 ( 73 % ) be trans , show enrichment on chromosome 5 at approximately 49 cm ( figure 4b ) a assess use the fisher exact test ( p = 8.7 × 10 − 25 after bonferroni correction ) .
at this locus there be 250 eqtls , 140 of which exhibit genotype – sex interaction .
at increase threshold for linkage , a high fraction of detect eqtls be ci - act ( figure 4c ) .
the increase proportion of ci - eqtls with increase lod score threshold have be report before [ 5 , 15 ] and confirm what be likely to be our increase power to detect first - order ci - act variation affect transcription .
the proportion of eqtls with significant sex effect remain relatively constant at all threshold ( figure 4c ) .
furthermore , the majority of these sex - specific eqtls ( 73 % ) be act in trans on a given gene 's expression ( figure 4d ) , and similar proportion of sex - specific eqtls ( 26 % ) be ci compare to the proportion of all liver ci - eqtls ( 32 % ) .
these data demonstrate the profound effect of sex on the genetic regulation of gene expression .
ci - eqtls be candidate gene for the gonadal fat mass trait
give the marked effect of sex on liver gene expression and the genetic regulation of gonadal fat mass , we reason that ci - eqtls with significant “ sex - additive ” and “ sex - dominant ” interaction would be potential candidate gene for our trait .
of the 2,118 significant ci - eqtls , 304 ( 14 % ) be improve by the sex - interaction term .
ci - eqtls overlap the confidence interval for the fat mass cqtl be candidate gene for the trait .
those gene with significant sex interaction receive increase consideration a potential candidate ( table 4 and 5 ) .
thousand of gene show a sex - specific correlation with gonadal fat mass
for each of the 23,574 oligonucleotides represent on the array , we compute a linear regression analysis to test for association between the trait “ gonadal fat mass ” and each transcript abundance measure , incorporate the term “ gene , ” “ sex , ” and “ gene - by - sex , ” where the “ gene - by - sex ” parameter test for sex - specific correlation between a gene and the trait .
a before , a stepwise regression procedure be use to determine if the addition of the interaction term significantly improve the model fit ( see material and method ) .
multiple testing be address by control for the fdr .
distribution of the p - value obtain from these 23,574 correlation be show in figure 5a .
at fdr = 0.01 , 4,613 gene be significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass .
of these gene , 4,524 ( 98 % ) show significant “ gene - by - sex ” effect , support the high degree of sex specificity in the genetic regulation of this trait .
a complete list of all gene correlate with gonadal fat mass be provide in table s2 .
of the 4,613 gene correlate with gonadal fat mass , 1,130 generate 1,478 significant eqtls ( figure 5b ) .
the colocalization of eqtls for these correlate gene with the cqtl for the fat mass trait provide useful implication for the possible role of these gene .
whether the eqtls be ci or trans determine what that role may be .
gene that show significant correlation with the gonadal fat mass trait and that have ci - eqtls coincident with the fat mass cqtls be potential candidate gene for the trait ( i.e. , they may contain a genetic variation in that gene that be the cause of the trait cqtl ) .
table 5 summarize the gene that possess these property for each cqtl , increase evidence for these gene a potential candidate .
a address below , give the complex multiorgan regulation of adipose tissue mass , it be unlikely that the genetic regulation of all five locus reside in the liver .
however , some may involve the liver , and even for those that do not , the liver transcriptional variation may reflect that of the relevant tissue .
gene that show significant correlation with gonadal fat mass and have trans - eqtls coincident with the fat mass cqtl can not be candidate directly responsible for the trait , a they be physically locate elsewhere in the genome .
however , they be potentially involve in the pathway ( s ) lead from the causative gene to the expression of the fat mass trait ( i.e. , their transcription be closely regulate by the causative gene at the locus ) .
all of the five fat mass cqtls have colocalizing trans - eqtls for correlate gene .
however , for a trait such a fat mass that be regulate by multiple tissue and organ , it be unlikely that all five fat mass cqtls be primarily drive by liver gene expression .
a an approach to this problem , we hypothesize that those cqtls that be most closely associate with liver gene expression would show an overrepresentation of colocalized eqtl for correlate gene , while those locus primarily control by other tissue would not have show this pattern .
to assess this , we first determine the distribution of these 1,478 eqtls across the genome in 2 - cm bin a show in figure 5c .
in order to see if there exist any hotspot for these eqtls , we test eqtls with p < 0.001 for enrichment along the genome in overlap 2 - cm bin against the distribution of all liver eqtls ( figure 4a ) use a fisher exact test .
figure 5d show the significance of enrichment report a − log10 of the enrichment p - value across the genome .
one locus on chromosome 19 be significantly enrich for eqtls of transcript correlate with the gonadal fat mass trait .
a anticipate , there be an overlap of a correlate eqtl hotspot and a fat mass cqtl , specifically chromosome 19 at 40 cm .
this suggest that the genetic regulation of fat mass for the chromosome 19 locus be more closely tie to liver gene expression than be the other four fat mass cqtls .
the effect of the trans - eqtls at the chromosome 19 locus on gene expression be summarize in figure 6 .
twenty - nine trans - eqtls colocalize to chromosome 9 at 40 cm , suggest that 29 gene correlate with gonadal fat mass be regulate in trans by a polymorphism at this position .
the proportion of gene expression level control by this locus ( approximate a the coefficient of determination r2 ) differ between male and female for the majority of the transcript ( a in figure 6a ) , and for chromosome 19 ( figure 6b ) , female demonstrate great genetic regulation of gene expression than male .
this substantial female bias be significantly high than would be expect to arise by chance for the chromosome 19 locus ( p < 0.001 by χ2 ) .
this locus correspond to one of the four sex - bias cqtls for gonadal fat mass report in this study , and the significant sex specificity of both the ci and trans genetic regulation of liver gene correlate with fat mass support the functional significance of this locus in this organ .
discussion
in this study , we describe a large , densely map , segregate f2 mouse population design to study the genetic regulation of several trait associate with the so - call metabolic syndrome .
several group , include ours , have report the advantage of combine traditional genetics with genome - wide gene expression analysis for the dissection of complex trait .
this study improve on past model by include over 300 animal ( three time the size of previous study ) of both sex , allow for the incorporation of sex - specific effect on underlie genetic regulation .
significant sex bias in the regulation of both complex trait and gene expression
give the known dichotomy between female and male in the susceptibility and control of obesity , this study be design to sufficiently power the detection of significant qtls for this and other trait with sex - dependent effect .
note , however , that these effect can extend to trait without overall mean difference between the sex .
previous study have describe the advantage of perform qtl analysis both with and without sex a an interactive covariate [ 22 – 25 ] .
analyze the sex separately be suboptimal since it reduce sample size in both group , thus reduce power to detect main qtl effect , a demonstrate by our genome scan of chromosome 5 ( figure 1b ) .
furthermore , separate analysis would not allow for the detection of qtls that have oppose , or sex - antagonistic , effect in female and male and would hinder the detection of qtls specific to one sex .
accordingly , we detect five cqtls for the gonadal fat mass trait on chromosome 1 , 3 , 5 , 11 , and 19 .
the detection of all five cqtls be “ drive ” by the large effect in female , with significant improvement by the incorporation of sex * additive and sex * dominant parameter .
qtls associate with obesity , gonadal fat , and abdominal fat have be report before overlap with cqtls on chromosome 1 [ 26 – 28 ] , 5 [ 26 , 29 ] , and 11 [ 19 , 29 ] report here , whereas the cqtl on chromosome 3 represent a novel qtl for this trait .
the chromosome 19 cqtl for fat mass be recently report by u [ 5 ] in the bxd intercross f2 progeny from the strain b6 and dba ( which share the same haplotype at this region a the c3h strain use in this study ) .
interestingly , significant heritability and genetic regulation be see in this f2 population despite the hyperlipidemic , proinflammatory apoe − / − background and the high - fat western diet .
this background possess several advantage , such a allow the modeling of human - like disease state .
the predominantly female - drive effect of the five cqtls likely reflect the significant effect of differential gonadal hormone secretion on the genetic regulation of this complex trait .
the identification of gene underlie cqtls remain a challenge .
the widespread availability of genome - wide expression analysis have begin to address this by provide a snapshot of transcription in relevant organ and thus provide initial information for which gene can differentiate a given trait .
furthermore , by treat transcript level a quantitative trait , we can map the genetic regulation underlie differential gene expression ( eqtls ) .
those eqtls that have ci - act variation affect their transcription be potential candidate gene for the trait .
at a single trait , genome - wide significance level of 0.05 , we detect 6,676 eqtls represent 4,998 gene , of which 2,118 be ci - act .
at increase threshold , the proportion of ci - eqtls increase , which be in good agreement with previous study [ 5 , 15 ] and likely reflect the increase power to detect ci - act variation affect transcription .
of all 6,676 significant eqtls , 1,166 possess significant sex interaction .
of these , 304 be ci and 852 be trans , suggest that only a minority of the sex - specific effect on the regulation of gene expression occur through polymorphism within the gene itself .
rather , underlie genetic regulation of most transcript be the result of interaction between trans locus and sex - specific factor ( e.g. , hormone ) .
a with cqtls , sex bias in the predominantly trans genetic regulation of gene expression be likely secondary to different sex hormone profile .
recently , use a similar dataset , our group demonstrate that significant ci - eqtls ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 ) largely represent true positive [ 30 ] and be enriched for highly polymorphic region over the mouse genome .
the ci - eqtls present in table 5 overlap with one of the gonadal fat mass cqtls and should be consider potential candidate .
given the sex effect in the gonadal fat mass cqtls , we reason that the ci - eqtls with significant sex * additive and sex * dominant effect should receive priority consideration .
the use of eqtls to dissect cqtls be a method still in it infancy , with uncertain efficacy and applicability .
nevertheless , application of this analysis to this dataset provide some tantalizingly attractive candidate gene .
one shortcoming of this approach , however , be that candidate gene be limit to those whose transcript expression level vary in association with a nearby polymorphism that differ between the parental strain — in other word , gene with significant and detectable ci - eqtls .
however , it be not strictly necessary for candidate gene to have evidence of such linkage : polymorphism underlie a trait cqtl can affect gene function or posttranslational modification .
nevertheless , several phenotype be know to be regulate , at least partly , at the level of transcription or mrna stability , which be exactly what our method be design to detect .
a separate problem be that organ - specific gene expression difference may preclude one from detect the relevant causative gene if the tissue array be not the tissue where the control be exert .
this be particularly relevant for a trait such a adipose tissue mass , which be control by multiple tissue .
we propose that analysis of correlate gene can provide guidance a discuss below .
gene correlate with gonadal fat mass illustrate tissue - specific regulation of the trait
in an effort to identify gene associate with the fat mass trait , but not necessarily candidate gene underlie the trait cqtls , we fit linear model to assess the degree of association between transcript and gonadal fat mass .
a with qtls , sex - specific correlation be model .
at an fdr of 1 % , 4,613 gene be find to be significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass , of which 4,254 ( 98 % ) show sex - bias correlation .
a indicate in table 4 and 5 , several gene with detectable ci - eqtls be also significantly correlate with the trait and be even far prioritize a candidate gene .
thus far , study that have examine the “ genetics of gene expression ” be in good agreement regard the increase power to detect ci - eqtls relative to trans [ 5 , 9 , 15 , 16 , 31 ] .
it be unclear at this time , however , what exactly be the significance of trans - eqtls and the nature of the underlie polymorphism associate with them .
furthermore , the eqtl hotspot report in this and previous study [ 5 , 9 , 10 ] largely represent trans - eqtls .
this localization suggest some functional significance to these region .
of the 4,613 gene correlate with gonadal fat mass , 1,130 generate 1,478 significant eqtls , of which 1,023 ( 69 % ) be trans - act .
these eqtls be significantly enrich at one locus ( chromosome 19 ) .
interestingly , this hotspot be coincident with a cqtl associate with fat mass report in this study .
since these transcript represent those significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass , the localization of their eqtls to these region strongly support the notion that the gene with trans - eqtls represent downstream target of candidate regulatory gene locate at the position of significant linkage .
this mean that the gene may be causal but downstream of the gene responsible for the cqtls , or they may be react to the increase gonadal fat mass and associate metabolic change .
these data also suggest that identify such locus that show overrepresentation of highly correlate gene be a mean to identify which of the trait cqtls be more likely control by the tissue array .
a expect , the chromosome 19 locus be enriched for trans - eqtls with substantially great effect in female .
functional and promoter analysis of gene with a common trans - eqtl may prove enlightening .
furthermore , gene expression network construction and analysis may be improve by the incorporation of experimentally demonstrate ci versus trans regulation .
conclusion
the integration of traditional genetics with genome - wide expression analysis be first propose by jansen and nap 4 y ago [ 32 ] .
advance in genomic technology and bioinformatic resource since then have vastly improve the applicability of these method to the dissection of complex trait .
take into account sex - specific effect will similarly improve the sensitivity to detect underlie genetic regulation , especially for phenotype know to be affect by sex .
furthermore , network analysis be increasingly be apply to complex phenotype [ 11 , 33 ] .
regardless of which variable be use in the construction of these network , whether they measure gene expression or protein interaction , account for sex specificity , hormonal status , or construction of different network for female and male would likely more accurately represent the complexity associate with these phenotype .
we report here on the initial genetic and genomic analysis of an f2 intercross population design to recapitulate several trait associate with human metabolic syndrome .
use 334 mouse of both sex genotyped at high density , this be the large study of it kind to date design , and it be strongly power to detect subtle effect of genetic regulation and sex specificity .
we identify five cqtls for the gonadal fat mass trait , all with great effect in female .
we also detect several thousand significant liver eqtls , a significant fraction of which be sex - bias , demonstrate how meaningful effect of sex on gene expression extend beyond overall mean difference .
we demonstrate the application of linkage and correlation method to identify candidate gene .
finally , we show that localization of a subset of liver gene link in trans to a cqtl region can identify relative tissue contribution to the genetic regulation of a complex trait .
we anticipate that the application of these and similar method would significantly improve the elucidation of the genetic regulation underlie complex phenotype .
material and method
animal and tissue collection .
c57bl / 6j apoe − / − ( b6.apoe − / − ) be purchase from jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , maine , united state ) .
c3h / hej apoe − / − ( c3h.apoe − / − ) be generate by backcross b6.apoe − / − to c3h for ten generation .
f1 mouse be generate from reciprocal intercrossing between b6.apoe − / − and c3h.apoe − / − , and f2 mouse be subsequently breed by intercrossing f1 mouse .
a total of 334 mouse ( 169 female , 165 male ) be produce .
all mouse be feed purina chow contain 4 % fat until 8 wk of age and then transfer to a “ western ” diet contain 42 % fat and 0.15 % cholesterol for 16 wk .
mouse be sacrifice at 24 wk of age .
at death , liver be immediately collect and flash - freeze in liquid n2 , and gonadal fat pad be extract and weigh .
rna sample preparation , microarray hybridization , and expression analysis .
rna preparation and array hybridization be perform at rosetta inpharmatics ( seattle , washington , united state ) .
the custom ink - jet microarrays use in this study ( agilent technology , previously describe [ 21 , 34 ] ) contain 2,186 control probe and 23,574 noncontrol oligonucleotides extract from mouse unigene cluster and combine with refseq sequence and riken full - length clone .
mouse liver be homogenize and total rna extract use trizol reagent ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) accord to manufacturer 's protocol .
three microgram of total rna be reverse transcribe and label with either cy3 or cy5 fluorochrome .
purify cy3 or cy5 complementary rna be hybridize to at least two microarray slide with fluor reversal for 24 h in a hybridization chamber , wash , and scan use a laser confocal scanner .
array be quantify on the basis of spot intensity relative to background , adjust for experimental variation between array use average intensity over multiple channel , and fit to an error model to determine significance ( type i error ) .
gene expression be report a the mlratio relative to the pool derive from 150 mouse randomly select from the f2 population .
for subsequent analysis , mlratio data be assume to be normally distribute , a valid assumption a previously demonstrate [ 21 , 30 ] .
the error model use to assess whether a given gene be significantly differentially express in a single sample relative to a pool comprise of a randomly select subset of 150 sample have be extensively describe and test in a number of publication [ 35 , 36 ] .
genotyping and linkage statistic .
genomic dna be isolate from kidney by phenol - chloroform extraction .
an examination of exist database identify over 1,300 snp that show variation between the b6 and c3h strain , and a complete linkage map for all 19 autosome be construct use 1,032 of these snp at an average density of 1.5 cm .
genotyping be conduct by parallele ( south san francisco , california , united state ) use the molecular - inversion probe ( mib ) multiplex technique [ 37 ] .
test for linkage of both clinical trait and gene expression ( use mlratio ) be conduct use a linear model .
consider a phenotype denote by y .
the linear model that relate variation in y to qtls and other covariates ( e.g. , sex ) be give by the general form
where μ be the trait mean , x ′ a vector of covariates , β be the associate vector of regression coefficient , and e the residual error .
linkage be compute for over 20 clinical trait as well a 23,574 liver transcript .
standard genome scan calculate linkage by compare the linear model
to the null model
where β1 and β2 be the regression coefficient of the additive and dominant parameter , respectively .
the lod score represent the difference in the log10 of the likelihood of the above two equation , where the individual model likelihood be maximize with respect to the model parameter , give the marker genotype and phenotype data .
if a trait y differ on average between the two sex but the qtl have the same effect in both male and female , we can model this interaction by include sex a an additive covariate in the above model , result in the new model
which be then compare to the null model
where β3 be the regression coefficient of the sex parameter .
the effect of a qtl may be dependent on the state of a covariate ; for instance , a qtl may have an effect specific to one sex , or may have opposite effect in the two sex .
this interaction can be model use a full model , which account for all additive covariates , as well a interaction between the covariates :
which be compare to the above null model ( equation 5 ) .
the full model ( equation 6 ) allow u to model all heritable and sex - specific interaction in a single equation and maximally power u to detect significant qtls when the sex and sex - interaction term be significant , give all 334 animal be include in the analysis .
furthermore , use the full model obviate the need for modeling qtls in one sex only , a procedure that could decrease our power by halve the sample size , render it impossible to detect interaction between qtls and sex .
however , because the full model contain two more parameter than the model that treat sex a an additive covariate ( equation 4 ) , the lod score threshold for significant linkage be high ( use the convention of lander and kruglyak [ 20 ] ) , with qtl - specific significance level of 2 × 10−3 and 5 × 10−5 equivalent to lod score of 4.0 ( suggestive linkage ) and 5.4 ( significant linkage , equivalent to genome - wide p < 0.05 ) , respectively .
a a result , if there be no significant sex - additive or sex - dominant interaction , the full model will actually reduce power to detect linkage .
to minimize the loss in power of fit the full model when the sex - interaction term be not significant , we employ a model selection procedure that introduce sex - interaction term only if they add significantly to the overall qtl model .
the model selection procedure make use of forward stepwise regression technique to determine whether it be beneficial to include the sex - interaction term , conditional on realize a significant additive effect ( p < 0.001 ) .
that is , the data be fit to equation 4 for a given marker , and if the add term be significant at the 0.001 significance level , then we attempt to add the sex*add term into the model .
the sex*add term be retain in the model if the bayesian information criterion ( bic ) for this model be small than the bic for equation 4 .
if sex*add be include in the model a a result of this procedure , then we again use bic to consider include the sex*dom term in the model .
to determine which of the four model ( equation 2 , 4 , 6 , and the model selection ) be optimal , we empirically estimate the fdr for each model over a set of 3,000 gene randomly select from the set of all gene detect a express in the liver sample .
for each gene and for each marker we fit each of the four model to the data .
we perform this same analysis on ten separate permutation set in which each of the 3,000 gene expression trait vector be permute such that the correlation structure among the gene be preserve .
the fdr for a given lod score threshold be then compute a the ratio of the mean number of qtl detect in the permute datasets ( the mean take over the ten permute datasets ) and the total number of qtl detect in the observe 3,000 - gene dataset .
we then generate roc - like curve by vary the lod score threshold , result in a range of fdr ( from 0 % to more than 50 % ) .
to simplify this type of summary , we consider no more than one qtl per chromosome per gene expression trait by consider only the qtl with the max lod score on each chromosome for each trait .
the roc curve for each of the four model be show in figure s1 , with the black curve correspond to equation 2 , the blue curve correspond to equation 4 , the red curve correspond to equation 6 , and the green curve correspond to the model selection procedure .
it be clear from the roc curve that the sex and sex - interaction term be significant in the gene expression dataset .
for example , at an fdr of 5 % we note that 800 qtls be detect in the set of 3,000 gene for model 1 , while 968 ( 21 % increase ) and 1,159 ( 45 % increase ) qtls be detect for equation 4 and 6 , respectively .
these result demonstrate significantly increase power to detect qtls when sex be take into account .
we far note that the stepwise selection procedure capture more information than equation 4 , indicate a significant interaction signature in this dataset and also demonstrate that this simple statistical procedure be capable of identify significant interaction event even at conservative fdr threshold .
finally , it be of particular note that equation 4 perform well than equation 6 , the model that incorporate the interaction term at all time .
that is , despite there be a significant interaction signature , the signature be not large enough to justify include interaction term for every expression trait and at every marker test .
this fact motivate the need to employ the forward regression procedure , and these result far motivate the need to explore sex effect by employ even more sophisticated qtl detection method , such a that recently describe by yi et al. [ 38 ] .
additional statistic .
for each 23,574 oligonucleotides represent on the array , we compute a linear regression analysis to test for a correlation between the trait “ gonadal fat mass ” and each transcript .
similar to our method of calculate linkage , we employ a stepwise linear regression procedure use equation of the form or compare to the null model where β0 be the intercept , and β1 , β2 , and β3 represent the regression coefficient of their respective term .
a before , the parameter “ sex * gene ” be only retain if it significantly improve the fit of the model .
the p - value threshold for significant correlation be calculate by an f test , which compare the appropriate model ( equation 7 or 8 ) to the null model ( equation 9 ) .
a before , multiple testing be address with use of the fdr , rank the p - value obtain from the above f test and set α = 0.01 .
gene correlate with the gonadal fat mass trait generate several significant eqtls .
in order to determine if eqtls generate by these gene be enrich in any locus or if they be distribute randomly , we compare the distribution of these eqtls against the distribution of all liver eqtls in overlap 6 - cm bin across the genome use the fisher exact test .
this test be base on exact probability from a specific distribution ( hypergeometric distribution ) .
p - value obtain from this test be correct for multiple comparison use a simple bonferonni correction ( give that we perform 772 test across the genome , 0.05 / 772 ) .
locus with p < 6.5 × 10 − 5 by fisher exact test be consider significantly enriched for eqtls correlate with gonadal fat mass .
support information
figure s1
roc curve for each of the four model
( 21 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
suggestive and significant eqtls
( 3.7 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s2
transcript significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass
( 716 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
the author wish to thank steve horvath , desmond smith , xia yang , sudheer dos , anatole ghazalpour , pek lum , and john lamb for valuable discussion and insight .
we thank leslie ingram - drake for work on data preparation .
initial work on construction of the bxh.apoe − / − cross be do by weibin shi .
abbreviation
apoe − / − - apolipoprotein e null
cqtl - clinical qtl
eqtl - gene expression qtl
fdr - false discovery rate
lod - logarithm of odds
mlratio - mean log10 ratio
qtl - quantitative trait locus
roc - receiver operate characteristic
snp - single nucleotide polymorphism
figure and table
figure 1
genome scan for gonadal fat mass
( a ) animal be genotyped at an average 1.5 cm density use 1,032 snp polymorphic between the parental strain .
lod score compute use sex a an additive covariate ( black ) fail to detect significant linkage .
a genome scan account for interaction between sex and qtl ( red ) show evidence for suggestive linkage on chromosome 1 and significant linkage on chromosome 3 , 5 , 11 , and 19 .
dashed and solid line be threshold for suggestive ( p < 1 × 10 − 3 ) and significant linkage ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 ) , respectively .
( b ) genome scan for gonadal fat mass use different model over mouse chromosome 5 .
scan for fat mass use all animal with ( black ) and without ( green ) sex a an additive covariate fail to detect significant linkage .
female analyze alone ( magenta ) show evidence for suggestive linkage ( p < 2 × 10 − 4 ) .
when both sex be analyze to account for sex effect ( red ) , a significant qtl be realize ( p < 10 − 6 ) .
for clarity , only the model incorporate both the “ sex * add ” and “ sex * dom ” term be show in red , although additional model incorporate the term separately be also compute .
figure 2
effect of genotype on fat mass
homozygous b6 ( bb ) , c3h ( cc ) , or heterozygous ( bc ) genotype at all five qtl position , separate by sex , be show .
the underlie genotypic effect of the qtls on fat mass differ between the sex .
coefficient of determination ( r2 ) be show along with associate anova *p < 0.05 , **p < 0.01 , ***p < 0.001 .
figure 3
heat map of liver gene expression
over 2,300 of the most differentially express gene in liver hierarchically cluster by animal ( x - axis ) against transcript level ( y - axis ) .
expression be report a mlratio of individual experiment against a common pool .
red be over - and green underrepresented relative to pool .
figure 4
property of all liver eqtls
( a ) distribution of all significant liver eqtls across the genome in 2 - cm bin .
a total of 6,676 significant eqtls be realize , represent 4,998 liver transcript .
hotspot of nonrandom eqtl colocalization be clearly evident .
( b ) distribution of eqtls with significant sex - specific effect .
a total of 1,166 eqtls represent 1,044 transcript show an eqtl hotspot on chromosome 5 .
( c ) property of eqtls at increase significance level .
a the threshold for significant linkage increase ( p - value decrease , or lod score increase ) , the proportion of ci - eqtls ( black ) increase .
the fraction of all eqtls with sex effect ( red ) and ci - eqtls with sex effect ( blue ) remain relatively constant at increase threshold .
the dashed line indicate the genome - wide significance threshold ( p < 5 × 10 − 5 ; genome - wide p < 0.05 ) .
( d ) property of sex - specific eqtls at increase significance level .
for eqtls with significant sex effect , a with all eqtls , the proportion of ci - eqtls ( black ) increase and trans ( blue ) decrease a the threshold for significance increase .
at the genome - wide threshold for significance ( dashed line ) , over 70 % of eqtls with significant sex effect be trans .
figure 5
property of transcript significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass
( a ) distribution of p - value for trait – gene correlation between transcript and gonadal fat mass .
at fdr = 0.01 , 4,613 transcript be significantly correlate with the trait .
( b ) number of eqtls generate by the 4,613 gene significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass .
of these , 1,130 gene possess at least one significant eqtl .
( c ) distribution of 1,478 eqtls significantly correlate with gonadal fat mass across the genome in 2 - cm bin .
( d ) identification of genomic region enrich for eqtls correlate with gonadal fat mass .
the x - axis represent genome position in 2 - cm bin , and the y - axis represent the − log10 fisher exact test p - value for enrichment of eqtls in overlap 6 - cm bin .
the dashed line correspond to p = 0.05 after correction for multiple comparison .
one significantly enrich region on chromosome 19 be show .
the chromosome 19 ( 40 - cm ) hotspot be coincident with a cqtl for gonadal fat mass and be highlight in red .
figure 6
the effect of sex on trans - eqtl correlate with gonadal fat mass
( a ) example of the effect of genotype at a trans locus on gene expression .
presence of homozygous b6 ( bb ) , c3h ( cc ) , or heterozygous ( bc ) genotype at a trans locus affect transcript mmt00016118 level ( report a mlratio ) in a sex - specific manner , with effect detectable only in female .
coefficient of determination ( r2 , or proportion variance explain ) be show along with associate anova p - value .
several trans - eqtls correlate with gonadal fat mass localize to region overlap with cqtls for this trait , specifically , to chromosome 19 , 40 cm .
( b ) for chromosome 19 , the vast majority of these correlate trans - eqtls be bias toward large effect on gene expression in female ( red line ) .
the effect of any given trans - eqtl be approximate a r2 determine in a manner similar to that depict in ( a ) .
table 1
characteristic of the bxh.apoe − / − cross
table 2
cqtls for gonadal fat mass
table 3
characteristic of liver eqtls
table 4
property of gene coincident with the gonadal fat mass cqtl
table 5
transcript coincident with cqtls with significant sex effect and correlate with gonadal fat mass be strong candidate gene for the trait
footnote
author contribution .
sw , tad , and ajl conceive and design the experiment .
sw , ny , and ee perform the experiment .
sw , ny , hw , and tad analyze the data .
ee and hw contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
hw design script and code to analyze data .
sw , ny , ee , tad , and ajl write the paper .
funding .
work be support in part by national institute of health grant hl - 30568 and hl - 28481 to ajl , public health service training grant hd07228 – 24 to sw , the iris cantor - ucla woman 's health center , ucla national center for excellence in woman 's health grant to tad , and by an american heart association medical student research grant to ny .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
citation : wang s , yehya n , schadt ee , wang h , drake ta , et al. ( 2006 ) genetic and genomic analysis of a fat mass trait with complex inheritance reveal marked sex specificity .
plo genet 2 ( 2 ) : e15 .
intraocular pressure in genetically distinct mouse : an update and strain survey
abstract
background
little be know about genetic factor affect intraocular pressure ( iop ) in mouse and other mammal .
the purpose of this study be to determine the iop of genetically distinct mouse strain , assess the effect of factor such a age , sex and time of day on iop in specific strain background , and to assess the effect of specific candidate gene mutation on iop .
result
base on over 30 study mouse strain , average iop range from approximately 10 to 20 mmhg .
gender do not typically affect iop and aging result in an iop decrease in some strain .
most tested strain exhibit a diurnal rhythm with iop be the high during the dark period of the day .
homozygosity for a null allele of the carbonic anhydrase ii gene ( car2n ) do not alter iop while homozygosity for a mutation in the leptin receptor gene ( leprdb ) that cause obesity and diabetes result in increase iop .
albino c57bl / 6j mouse homozygous for a tyrosinase mutation ( tyrc - 2j ) have high iop than their pigmented counterpart .
conclusion
genetically distinct mouse strain house in the same environment have a broad range of iop .
these iop difference be likely due to interstrain genetic difference that create a powerful resource for study the regulation of iop .
age , time of day , obesity and diabetes have effect on mouse iop similar to those in human and other specie .
mutation in two of the assess candidate gene ( lepr and tyr ) result in increased iop .
these study demonstrate that mouse be a practical and powerful experimental system to study the genetics of iop regulation and disease process that raise iop to harmful level .
background
glaucoma be a lead cause of blindness but it molecular etiology be poorly understood .
glaucoma involve retinal ganglion cell death and optic nerve damage that be often associate with elevated intraocular pressure ( iop ) [ 1 - 5 ] .
it be become increasingly clear that many form of glaucoma have a genetic component [ 6 , 7 ] , and much current research be focus on identify chromosomal region and gene that contribute to glaucoma [ 8 - 10 ] .
identify such locus allow screen for individual with an increase risk of develop glaucoma [ 11 ] .
identify gene contribute to elevate iop and glaucoma be only the first step , however , and animal model will provide system for subsequent hypothesis testing and experimental dissection of pathogenesis .
due to conservation in mammalian physiology and the powerful tool of mouse genetics , mouse be a very important experimental system for probe the function ( both in health and disease ) of many gene recently identify by sequence the human genome [ 12 ] .
we have focus on develop the mouse system for iop and glaucoma study [ 13 - 19 ] .
mouse be expect to be extremely helpful in characterize gene and mechanism that affect iop or the susceptibility of the optic nerve and retina to glaucomatous damage [ 20 ] .
very little be know about the magnitude of iop of various mouse strain or iop fluctuation in mouse with time or other factor .
previously , we develop a method to measure iop in mouse and report initial finding on the magnitude of mouse iop [ 13 ] .
the procedure involve direct measurement of pressure follow cannulation of the anterior chamber .
the initial experiment demonstrate that in our hand careful ocular cannulation have a very minor effect on iop ( average of - 0.3 mmhg , mode - 0.5 mmhg ) and demonstrate significant difference in intraocular pressure level between four mouse strain .
here , we provide an update , include an extensive strain survey , and show that the methodology be reliable and produce reproducible data over extend period of time .
result
a broad range of iop between strain
figure 1 show the average iop of a number of inbred mouse strain that be house in the same environmental condition .
there be a wide range of iop with strain balb / cj have one of the low average iop ( 11.1 ± 0.5 mmhg ) and strain cba / caj one of the high iop ( 19.3 ± 0.3 mmhg ) .
significant difference exist among various strain ( p < 0.0001 for all group , anova compare strain within each sex group ) .
figure 1
an almost two-fold range of iop between genetically distinct mouse strain .
mean iop ± sem be show for each strain .
twelve to 25 mouse be analyze for each strain ( typically 18 to 20 ) , except for riiis / j ( 7 mouse ) .
mouse of most strain be 6 to 12 month old , except for sec / 1rej and sb / le that be 2 to 3 month old .
approximately half of the ce / j and one third of the bub / bnj mouse be 16 month old and be pool with the young mouse , a the iop of both age be the same .
strain name cba / cahn - btkxid / j be abbreviate to cba / cahn .
clinical and histological analysis of the eye of all studied strain ( see table 1 ) do not identify anatomic or pathologic feature that might account for the difference in iop .
for example , the iridocorneal angle and aqueous humor drainage structure be open to the anterior chamber and have normal morphology in both balb / cj and cba / caj mouse ( figure 2 ) .
more than 20 % of cba / caj mouse have iop of over 21 mmhg , which increase risk for glaucoma in human .
we age a small group of these mouse ( n = 4 ) to 2 year and histologically analyze their optic nerve and retina but they do not develop glaucoma .
figure 2
normal iridocorneal angle in strain with high and low iop .
the iridocorneal angle that contain the aqueous humor drainage structure ( schlemm 's canal ( sc ) and trabecular meshwork ( tm ) have a normal morphology in strain cba / caj ( a , high iop ) , balb / cj ( b , low iop ) and all other strain .
pigment fill macrophage that resemble human clump cell be often locate in the angle of cba / caj mouse but be never sufficient to block drainage .
we have observe similar quantity of these cell at this location in other strain with low iop .
the angle recess between the cornea ( c ) and iris root ( i ) be open and not occluded .
aqueous humor pass through this recess before enter the drainage structure .
original magnification 630x .
table 1
ocular abnormality in various strain
all strain show in figure 1 be evaluate but only strain with abnormality be show .
for incidence , the numerator indicate the number of mouse or eye affect and the denominator indicate the total number analyze .
the mouse be 6 to 12 month old at the time of analysis and be not study at other age unless indicate .
histological analysis confirm these observation and also identify calcified cyst like structure in the iris epithelium of strain sb / le and sec / 1rej .
a low incidence of corneal scarring be note in some strain and likely result from a scratch cornea .
previously describe retinal degeneration [ [ 81 ] ] cause by homozygosity for the pde6brd1mutation be note in strain sb / le , st / bj , bub / bnj , cba / j , c3h / hej , sjl / j and swr / j .
strain difference be reproducible
to assess the consistency of iop in specific strain , we measure iop in different cohort of each strain maintain under similar condition at different time .
we purposefully include strain at each end of the iop spectrum , and strain c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) that be commonly use for genetic experiment ( figure 3 ) .
the average iop of different cohort of strain cba / caj , cba / cahn ( both high end of spectrum ) and b6 be consistent over time .
this be true of most strain assess on multiple occasion .
average iop for age match mouse of the same strain assess at different time typically differ by no more than 1.5 mmhg , and the difference be usually small .
strain 129p3 / j be the most variable strain with the average iop fluctuate by up to 2.5 mmhg .
figure 3
the iop of different strain be stable and reproducible over time .
mean iop ± sem be show for the indicate strain at different time of measurement .
the measurement time within a single year be separate by a few month .
the iop of strain that be analyze multiple time in the same year be list in the chronological order that they be obtain with the early measurement on left .
the sex [ male ( m ) or female ( f ) ] , age ( month ) , and number of mouse ( n ) analyze for the cba strain be list start with the early measurement and end with the late : cba / caj , f , n = 22 , age 6 – 7 ; m , n = 11 , age 2 ; cba / cahn , f , n = 16 , age 3 ; m , n = 8 , age 3 .
for balb / cj and c57bl / 6j , all group be male and primarily 3 to 4 month old .
the number of mouse analyze at each time follow : balb / cj 8 , 10 , 11 , 15 , 18 and 14 , c57bl / 6j 10 , 14 , 21 , 40 , 40 and 42 .
strain name cba / cahn - btkxid / j be abbreviate to cba / cahn .
despite the general consistency of iop , the average iop of some strain have change in a reproducible manner .
the iop of balb / cj mouse ( low end of spectrum ) be very similar for the past several year , around 11 mmhg .
between early 1996 and 1997 , however , the iop of this strain do jump from approximately 7.7 mmhg to approximately 11 mmhg ( figure 3 ) .
during this period , the room in which our animal be house and the manufacturer of the mouse diet be change .
over the same period , the iop of a / j also increase dramatically , from 9.4 ± 0.5 mmhg ( n = 11 ) in 1996 to 14.2 ± 0.4 mmhg ( n = 19 ) in 1997 .
the increase iop in a / j also be reproducible , with the average iop of mouse assess in the year 2000 be 14.5 ± 0.4 mmhg ( n = 16 ) .
importantly , the iop of strain b6 and c3h / hej do not change during this time ( b6 , 12.3. ± 0.5 mmhg in 1996 and 12.4 ± 0.3 mmhg in 1997 , n = 10 and 14 ; c3h / hej , 13.7 ± 0.8 mmhg in 1996 and 13.6 ± 0.2 mmhg in 1997 , n = 9 and 19 ) .
effect of age on iop
we focus on the commonly use b6 , 129p3 / j and c3h / hej strain to determine the effect of age on iop ( figure 4 ) .
in b6 , age have a significant effect on iop ( p < 0.001 ) .
iop be slightly decreased at both 12 month ( 12.2 ± 0.2 mmhg ) and 19 month ( 12.2 ± 0.3 mmhg ) compare to 3 month ( 13.1 ± 0.3 mmhg ) and 7 month ( 13.3 ± 0.3 mmhg ) .
although the decrease be of a similar level to the variation observe in 3 month old mouse ( see figure 3 ) , the iop of control young mouse ( see method ) analyze at the same time a the various b6 age group do not decrease .
for example , control mouse analyze at the same time a the 3 month , 12 month and 18 month b6 age group have iop of 13.0 ± 0.2 mmhg ( n = 14 ) , 13.3 ± 0.2 mmhg ( n = 14 ) , 13.7 ± 0.4 mmhg ( n = 12 ) , respectively .
iop be even low in the 24 month b6 mouse ( 10.8 ± 0.4 mmhg ) , and again the average iop of young control measure at the same time be not change ( 13.5 ± 0.2 , n = 12 ) .
figure 4
iop change with increase age .
mean iop ± sem be show for the indicate strain at different age .
iop decrease significantly in strain c57bl / 6j and 129p3 / j but not c3h / hej .
the c57bl / 6j and 129p3 / j group consist of approximately equal number of male and female .
the 3 month old c3h / hej mouse be male while the other age be compose of male and female .
the number of mouse analyze at each age , list from young to old , follow : c57bl / 6j , 18 , 18 , 18 , 18 , 13 ; 129p3 / j , 18 , 15 , 16 , 14 , 21 ; c3h / hej , 15 , 23 17 and 16 .
in strain 129p3 / j , iop do not differ significantly with age between 3 and 14 month but be low in 18 month old mouse ( p < 0.001 compare to all young age , figure 4 ) .
despite a 1 mmhg dip in iop at 8 month , there be no significant iop difference between c3h / hej mouse at each age test ( p = 0.2 for age ) .
although the effect of age have not be thoroughly assess in other strain , no obvious age - relate difference have be identify in other strain analyze at multiple age except for the glaucomatous dba / 2j and akxd - 28/ty strain [ 14 , 19 ] .
effect of sex on iop
although we have not rigorously assess the effect of sex on iop in many strain , sex specific difference have not be detect in the majority of strain for which both sex have be analyze , and have prove inconsistent even within an individual strain analyze multiple time .
strain b6 and 129p3 / j have be extensively evaluate at multiple age between 3 and 24 month of age .
sex difference be always absent in strain 129p3 / j and typically absent in strain b6 .
in strain b6 , however , male infrequently have significantly high iop than female .
for example , in one experiment , b6 male have an average iop of 14.2 ± 0.3 mmhg ( n = 12 ) whereas the average iop of female be 13.1 ± 0.3 mmhg ( n = 12 , p = 0.01 ) .
if real , this sporadic sex difference be not dependent on age , sometimes occur in a group of b6 mouse at a particular age and sometimes not occur in a separate group of the same age .
anesthesia protocol avoid iop alteration and allow detection of diurnal difference
all iop be assess use an anesthetic regime of 99 mg / kg ketamine and 9 mg / kg xylazine ( define a 1x ) .
initial experiment suggest that an almost identical dose ( 100 mg / kg ketamine and 9 mg / kg xylazine ) of anesthesia have no effect on iop during the experimental period with iop be measure as soon a possible after the mouse be unconscious , typically minute . [ 13 ] .
to far assess the effect of anesthesia , we measure iop in group of genetically identical b6 mouse subject to different dos ( 1x , 1.5x and 2x ) at 5 and 25 minute after administration ( figure 5 ) .
for all dos , iop decrease by 25 minute ( p = 0.005 for time ) .
the great the dose the great the decrease in iop .
at the 5 minute measurement , however , iop be the same use all dos suggest that the anesthetic effect on iop have not yet occur .
to identify any early window when it may be possible to assess iop without an obvious anesthetic effect , 195 mouse of strain b6 be anesthetize with the 1x dose and iop be measure at 1 minute time point between 4 and 12 minute after administration ( figure 5 ) .
the mean iop of group analyze at each time point do not differ ( p = 0.9 ) indicate that the iop depress effect of anesthesia occur later than 12 minute after administration .
similar result be obtain use 161 strain 129p3 / j and 145 strain dba / 2j mouse with the 1x dose ( 129p3 / j , p = 0.1 ; dba / 2j , p = 0.2 ) .
in support of a late effect of anesthesia ( since general anesthesia be report to mask diurnal variation in iop [ 21 ] ) , we identify increase iop during the dark compare to the light period of the day in several test strain ( figure 6 ) .
in these experiment , iop measurement be make between 5 and 12 minute after administration of anesthesia .
figure 5
no effect of 1x anesthetic dose within 12 minute of administration .
a mean iop ± sd be show for c57bl / 6j mouse at 5 and 25 minute after administration of various dos of anesthetic .
the 1x dose consist of 99 mg / kg ketamine and 9 mg / kg xylazine .
all dos decrease iop by 25 minute .
at all dos the iop at 5 minute be the same suggest that the effect of anesthesia have not yet occur .
approximately thirty 3 to 4 month old mouse be analyze at each dose and time b - d .
scatter - plot demonstrate no change in iop over the 12 minute follow anesthetic administration in three relatively unrelated mouse strain .
all strain consist of male and female that range from 3 to 6 month of age .
the sex and age be equally represented at each time point .
the scatter - plot include 195 c57bl / 6j , 161 129p3 / j and 145 dba / 2j mouse .
figure 6
iop be increase during the dark compare to light period in several strain .
mean iop ± sem be show for the indicate strain at measurement during the light ( open bar ) or dark ( fill bar ) period of the day .
all mouse be 2 to 4 month old except for cba / caj that be 5 to 6 month old .
129b6 refer to mouse of a mixed 129x1 / svj and c57bl / 6j background .
iop be increase during the dark in all strain except cba / caj .
the number of mouse successfully analyze during the light ( l ) or dark ( d ) period follow , dba / 2j 10l , 10d ; c57bl / 6j 32l , 22d ; c57br / cdj 12l , 10d ; swr / j 16l , 16d ; balb / cbyj 15l , 16d ; 129b6 10l , 12d ; cba / caj 22l , 16d .
blood pressure do not correlate with iop
an initial study of the relationship between blood pressure and iop in mouse do not detect a good correlation ( r2 = 0.1 , figure 7 ) .
figure 7
no correlation between blood pressure and iop .
there be no strong correlation between the average systolic blood pressure of each strain and the average iop of that strain ( r2 = 0.1 ) .
all mouse be female and 2 to 4 month old , with the exception that the female cba / caj use for iop assessment be 6 to 7 month old .
if the cba / caj mouse be exclude , r2 drop to 0.01 of ark / j , c57bl / 6j and sjl / j , strain ark / j have the low iop .
myoc allele do not associate with the magnitude of iop
mutation in the myocilin gene ( myoc ) cause human glaucoma .
to determine if allelic variation in the mouse myoc gene associate with iop in mouse strain , we analyze the gene in an assortment of strain with different iop .
two allele be identify .
one of these allele have a 12 nucleotide insertion in the promoter region ( ccagagcagggt , between position - 340 and - 341 ) compare to the previously publish sequence and be call the insertion allele .
the other allele be identical to the published sequence [ 22 ] .
the insertion allele also have a previously report substitution ( a to g , thr164ala ) in exon 1 and several other single base change in the promoter region [ 22 ] .
the presence or absence of this allele do not associate with iop a it be present in strain with a range of iop ( figure 8 ) .
figure 8
myoc allele do not associate with iop .
sequencing identify two allele of myoc in these mouse strain ( see text ) .
mouse strain homozygous for an allele have a 12 bp insertion in the promoter region be show a open bar and strain homozygous for the allele without this insertion have filled bar .
the iop data be the same a that in figure 1 .
genetic alteration and iop
y chromosome
the y chromosome have be implicate in strain specific blood pressure difference in rat [ 23 , 24 ] .
to test if the y chromosome of strain 129 / ola alter iop in relation to that of strain b6 , we compare the iop of pure b6 male and consomic b6 male that have the 129p2 / ola y chromosome ( backcross for 11 generation ) .
no difference in iop be detect between these group of mouse ( figure 9 , p = 0.1 ) .
figure 9
effect of genetic alteration .
mean iop ± sem be show .
there be no difference in iop between 3 to 4 month old male with either the 129p2 / ola ( n = 18 ) or c57bl / 6j ( n = 20 ) y chromosome ( y chr ) .
the 129 y chr have be backcross to strain c57bl / 6j for 11 generation .
similarly , 6 to 9 month old male and female that be homozygous for normal ( + ) or mutant ( n ) allele of car2 have similar iop ( n = 18 and 14 , respectively ) .
however , 4 month old male homozygous for the lepr diabetes and obesity cause mutation ( db ) have significantly high iop than their heterozygous age and sex match littermates .
the average body weight of the homozygote and heterozygote be 59 g ( range 50 to 64 g ) and 35 g ( range 28 to 41 g ) respectively .
blood sugar level in db / db male of this age be almost always in the diabetic range whereas those of heterozygote be not [ [ 27 ] ] .
this be recently confirm in cohort of approximately 25 male of each genotype ( mean ± sd ; db / db 422 ± 110 mg / dl ; db / + 147 ± 19 mg / dl ; anthony nicholson , the jackson laboratory , personal communication )
car2
to test if deficiency of carbonic anhydrase ii lead to decrease iop , we analyze mouse of a b6 background that be genetically similar but with normal or mutant allele of the car2 gene [ 25 , 26 ] .
there be no difference in iop between normal and mutant mouse ( figure 9 , p = 0.5 ) .
lepr
to test if genetic perturbation that cause obesity and diabetes can alter iop , we compare mouse that be genetically similar but be either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation ( db ) that result in obesity and diabetes before 4 month of age on the c57blks / j strain background use [ 27 ] .
iop be modestly but significantly elevated in obese , diabetic homozygous mutant ( 14.7 ± 0.3 mmhg ) compare to non-obese , non-diabetic heterozygote ( 13.4 ± 0.4 mmhg , p < 0.01 , figure 9 ) .
tyr
to determine if albinism alter iop , we analyze b6 mouse that be either pigmented or albino .
the albino mouse be homozygous and coisogenic for a mutant allele of tyrosinase ( tyrc - 2j ) that arise on the otherwise pigmented b6 background .
in 2 month old mouse , homozygosity for tyrc - 2j result in increase iop ( 14.2 ± 0.4 mmhg ) compare to wild type , pigment mouse ( 12.4 ± 0.3 mmhg , p < 0.0001 ) .
the same be true for independent cohort of mouse of different age that be analyze at different time ( figure 10a ) .
in contrast to pigmented b6 mouse ( figure 6 ) , the iop of the albino b6 mouse be not increased at measurement during the dark compare to light period of the day ( p = 0.6 , figure 10b ) .
figure 10
tyr mutation result in increase iop and altered diurnal change
a .
different cohort of c57bl / 6j mouse that be homozygous for the spontaneous tyrc - 2j mutation have high iop than their normal counterpart at all test age .
all group consist of male and female mouse .
b .
iop be not increase during the dark period of the day in tyrc - 2j homozygote .
the number of mouse analyze during the light period be : 2 month , 28 + / + , 29 c - 2j / c - 2j , 4 month , 20 + / + and 20 c - 2j / c - 2j , 8 month , 15 + / + and 15 c - 2j / c - 2j .
fourteen mouse of each genotype be successfully analyze during the dark period of the day .
discussion
iop difference be reproducible and amenable to genetic analysis
we report the iop of over 30 genetically different mouse strain that be house in the same environmental condition .
the magnitude of iop difference between strain and the good reproducibility of reading over time will allow the use of genetic approach to identify gene that underlie these difference .
use our method , a trained investigator can measure the iop of 10 mouse in an hour .
thus it be feasible to assess sufficient number of mouse for quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) analysis method and to use these method to identify chromosomal region contribute to strain difference in iop .
the strain survey we report provide valuable information for design these experiment .
the throughput and reproducibility also be sufficient for mutagenesis screen [ 28 - 30 ] .
these be important approach a they may allow the association of gene with iop and glaucoma whose currently know function do not suggest that they affect aqueous humor dynamic or do not immediately identify them a likely glaucoma candidate .
no effect of anesthetic protocol on iop during a 12 minute measurement window
many anesthetic agent include xylazine lower iop .
ketamine usually appear to increase iop [ 31 - 33 ] , but there be report of ketamine have no effect on iop or even reduce iop [ 31 , 34 ] .
different dos , specie use , route of administration or environment may contribute to these difference .
the relationship between the iop we measure and those in conscious mouse depend upon the effect of our anesthetic protocol ( intraperitoneal injection of 99 mg / kg ketamine and 9 mg / kg xylazine ) .
an anesthetic effect could potentially alter iop and mask genetically determine difference in iop .
therefore , it be very important to understand this effect .
here , we show that , despite a depressant effect on iop by 25 minute , our anesthetic protocol have no detectable effect on iop during the first 12 minute after administration .
thus , to avoid effect of anesthesia on iop , all measurement should be make within a window of up to 12 minute after anesthetic administration .
similarity and difference to rat study
our result agree with the time course of cardiovascular depression cause by intraperitoneal administration of ketamine and xylazine in rat .
in that study , anesthesia have a minor effect on blood pressure during the first 15 minute follow injection but a strong hypotensive effect between 15 and 30 minute that continue for more than an hour [ 35 ] .
in contrast , intraperitoneally administer ketamine ( 100 mg / kg ) be show to rapidly decrease iop in a different rat study [ 36 ] .
iop decrease significantly between a conscious measurement and the first possible measurement under anesthesia ( define a time 0 ) .
iop decrease far by the next reading ( at 5 minute ) after which it remain stable for the duration of the experiment ( 20 minute ) [ 36 ] .
the time 0 measurement in that study be at a very similar state of anesthesia a our 4 and 5 minute time point ( start as soon a possible and within 20 to 60 second of adequate anesthesia ) , and the 5 minute rat time point be similar to our 9 and 10 minute measurement time .
thus , although both rat and mouse study show that anesthesia decrease iop , the study do not agree on the timing of the effect .
the iop depression occur very soon after anesthesia in the rat but be delay in the mouse .
environment may influence the effect of anesthesia
factor that may influence the effect of anesthesia include the specie , strain and environment use .
essentially the same dose of ketamine and route of administration be use in both the rat and mouse iop study .
in mouse , the strain do not appear to be important a no early effect of anesthesia be present in the three distantly related laboratory strain [ 37 ] we study in detail , and we have not observe any obvious effect during this period in any analyze strain .
environmental difference may be important .
cage cleanliness , changing frequency and housing density can alter drug metabolism and the effect of anesthesia in rat [ 38 , 39 ] .
the type of bedding use also may be important .
we use wood shaving for bedding and wood shaving expose the mouse to terpene .
terpene administration or environmental exposure to terpene in wood shaving alter drug resistance and decrease the effect of anesthetic agent in both rat and mouse [ 40 - 45 ] .
risk factor for increase iop
some epidemiological study implicate factor such a diabetes , vascular hypertension , arterial hypotension , vasospasm , aberrant autoregulation of blood flow and sex in glaucoma .
other study find no association between these factor and glaucoma [ 2 , 46 - 48 ] .
similarly , the effect of various factor include age , gender , blood pressure , obesity and diabetes have be variably associate with elevated iop .
we evaluate the relationship between these latter factor and iop in genetically homogeneous mouse strain in a control environment .
age
although within the range of variability observe in young mouse , the iop of b6 mouse modestly decrease around 1 year of age .
this decrease be statistically significant compare to young mouse measure at the same time .
at 2 year of age the iop of b6 mouse have decrease far , though an effect of anesthesia in these very old mouse can not be rule out [ 49 ] .
the iop of 129p3 / j mouse also decrease with age but only at the old age examine ( 18 month ) .
decrease iop correlate with increase age in the human japanese population [ 50 , 51 ] .
further study of b6 mouse may allow experimental investigation of this effect .
additional study may also identify " normal " mouse strain that develop increase iop with age a generally occur in western population [ 52 , 53 ] .
we previously demonstrate that the glaucomatous strain dba / 2j and akxd - 28 / ty develop elevated iop with age [ 14 , 19 ] .
gender
in the examine strain , we find no consistent difference in iop between male and female .
this be true at all age for the 3 strain that be age to 18 month or old .
this be in agreement with a number of human study , which show that iop be equal between the sex [ 52 , 53 ] .
however , some study have find sex - specific difference ( typically with high iop in female and the magnitude of the difference increase after 40 year of age ) [ 53 , 54 ] .
of possible relevance , we previously report that female mouse of strain dba / 2j and akxd - 28 / ty develop elevated iop at an early age than male [ 14 , 19 ] .
blood pressure
some but not all human study have report a positive association between iop and blood pressure [ 48 , 52 ] .
our comparison of the relationship between blood pressure and iop in young , adult female mouse of different mouse strain , whose blood pressure differ up to 36 mmhg , do not reveal a positive correlation .
further study be need to determine if blood pressure correlate with iop in male , and to determine the relationship between blood pressure and iop in various mouse strain with age .
obesity and diabetes
obesity or high body mass index have be implicate by some but not other study a risk factor for increase iop and glaucoma [ 51 , 55 - 57 ] .
similarly , diabetes or the combination of diabetes and obesity have be variably associate with elevated iop and glaucoma [ 46 , 52 , 58 - 62 ] .
to test if genetic perturbation that cause obesity and diabetes can alter iop , we compare group of mouse that be genetically similar except that they be either homozygous or heterozygous for a leptin receptor mutation ( db ) that result in early onset obesity and diabetes .
the obese , diabetic mouse have high iop than their lean , non-diabetic littermates .
thus , epidemiological association between increase iop and obesity or diabetes be support by this work and appear to be functionally relevant .
further experiment with obese non-diabetic or diabetic non-obese mouse will help to characterize the separate effect of these risk factor .
iop be increase during the dark period of the day
diurnal variation in iop be common in human and laboratory animal [ 53 ] .
the molecular mechanism underlie the diurnal rhythm be not define but increase aqueous humor production or flow occur during the period of increase iop in both rabbit and human [ 63 - 65 ] .
small change in the resistance to aqueous humor drainage may also contribute to diurnal difference in iop [ 66 , 67 ] .
we first suspect iop change with time of day when the iop of a group of b6 mouse measure in the hour prior to onset of the dark period appear to be high than at other time of day .
previously , a rise of iop be report to occur before onset of the dark period in rat [ 21 ] , and rat and rabbit be show to have high iop during the dark period compare to the light period [ 21 , 68 , 69 ] .
thus , we compare the iop of mouse at different time of day and identify several strain with significantly high iop during the dark compare to the light period .
the magnitude of the difference vary with strain , and be great in swr / j .
the iop increase in the dark be not dependent on functional rod and cone photoreceptors since these cell degenerate in swr / j mouse due to homozygosity for the pde6brd1 mutation .
in agreement with this finding , circadian regulation of wheel running by light be previously report in mouse lack rod and cone [ 70 ] .
interestingly , the iop of strain cba / caj , which have one of the high daytime iop do not appear to increase in the dark .
far more detailed study be need to define the characteristic of the diurnal rhythm of intraocular pressure in mouse , and to determine whether it be lacking or have a different timing in strain cba / caj .
analysis of these mouse strain may increase understanding of the molecular mechanism control diurnal rhythm of iop and that may be relevant to glaucoma .
car2 deficiency do not alter iop
bicarbonate formation be important for aqueous humor secretion from the ciliary process and carbonic anhydrase ( ca ) facilitate this secretion .
there be multiple form of ca and the caii isoform be report to be the predominant form in the ciliary process [ 71 , 72 ] .
our experiment show that a genetic deficiency of caii in mouse homozygous for a mutation in the car2 gene do not alter iop .
caiv activity be recently demonstrate in the ciliary process [ 73 ] and so our data may support a more substantial role for caiv compare to caii in aqueous humor secretion .
it also be possible that caii substantially contribute to aqueous humor secretion but that functional mouse caiv be sufficient to prevent an effect of caii deficiency on iop in car2 mutant mouse .
in support of a role for both enzyme , a great than 90 % inhibition of ca be require for significant reduction of aqueous secretion [ 71 , 72 ] .
tyrosinase deficiency result in increase iop
tyrosinase be the first enzyme of the pigment production pathway .
tyrosinase deficiency cause albinism and have various ocular consequence .
these include alteration of the number of ipsilaterally project retinal axon and substantially increase light penetration past the iris [ 74 ] .
it be not know if these abnormality affect mammalian iop .
here , we show increase iop in mouse lack tyrosinase activity compare to otherwise genetically identical pigment b6 mouse .
additionally , iop difference between the light and dark period of the day be detect in the pigment but not the albino b6 mouse .
thus , albinism can affect the diurnal pattern of iop change .
in agreement with this result , mouse with albino eye that be homozygous for tyrosinase or pink eye dilution mutation have alter diurnal rhythm compare to pigmented mouse [ 75 ] .
albinism by itself be either not sufficient to alter the diurnal rhythm of iop or alter it in different way depend upon genetic background , however , since the albino strain balb / cbyj and swr / j have increase iop during the dark .
diurnal rhythm be know to depend on visual pathway and to respond to light intensity .
expose rat to 24 hour of low light abrogate the diurnal fluctuation of iop and result in constantly elevated iop [ 36 ] .
further experiment will determine the nature of the diurnal rhythm of iop in the albino b6 mouse and if it alteration or other mechanism result in iop elevation .
conclusion
a broad range of reproducible iop difference exist between inbred mouse strain and a diurnal rhythm of iop exist in different strain .
various factor have be variably associate with risk for increase iop in human .
genetically uniform , mouse can be use to study the effect of these risk factor on iop .
in trained hand , our measurement procedure be reliable , accurate and rapid enough to allow large scale genetic study of factor determine iop .
mouse have great potential for help to characterize the molecular mechanism affect iop .
material and method
animal husbandry
all experiment be perform in compliance with the arvo statement for use of animal in ophthalmic and vision research .
all mouse be breed and maintain at the jackson laboratory .
mouse be house in cage contain white pine bedding and cover with polyester filter .
for most experiment , the mouse be feed nih31 ( 6 % fat ) chow ad libitum , and their water be acidify to ph 2.8 to 3.2 .
b6 mouse develop diet induce diabetes when maintain on a high fat diet [ 76 ] .
to ensure that we be analyze the effect of age and not diabetes , the b6 mouse in the aging experiment be feed nih31 ( 4 % fat ) chow .
we have find no difference in iop between b6 mouse house on the 4 % fat and 6 % fat version of this otherwise identical diet .
the mouse be group house and the cage be change one time per week .
if any cage appear soiled between scheduled change , the mouse be place in a clean cage .
the environment be keep at 21 °c with a 14 hour light : 10 hour dark cycle .
the colony be monitor for specific pathogen by the jackson laboratory 's routine surveillance program ( see for specific pathogen ) .
intraocular pressure
intraocular pressure be measure a describe elsewhere [ 13 , 77 ] .
the mouse be typically acclimatize to the procedure room for at least 2 week prior to measurement , but sometimes between 1 and 2 week .
although it be not possible to include all strain in each measurement period , mouse of different strain be intermix .
a demonstrate here , the iop of c57bl / 6j be very consistent over time and so these animal be intersperse with experimental mouse during all experiment to ensure that calibration have not drift and that the system be function optimally .
whenever possible , the investigator measure iop do not know the genotype of the animal .
it be not possible to analyze all age group of each strain at the same time in the aging experiment .
therefore , to control for potential iop change due to measurement time and not age , approximately 3 month old b6 mouse be assess at the same time a each age group .
all dark period measurement be make between 1 and 3 hour after the light turn off .
the room be equip with dim red light and mouse be protect from all light exposure during set up .
each mouse be briefly expose to the red light when the anesthetic agent be administer .
when adequate anesthesia be achieve ( after 3 to 4 minute ) , the mouse be place on the measurement platform and the white light of the microscope be turn on ( for approximately 1 and a half minute ) to allow ocular cannulation , iop measurement and post-measurement test [ 13 ] that guard against artifactual data .
the white light be use at very low intensity and be dim but we can not rule out the possibility that this brief exposure alter the iop .
all other mouse be protect from light exposure throughout the time an individual mouse be analyze .
blood pressure
the blood pressure of conscious mouse of each strain ( 6 to 12 female per strain ) be measure with a tail - cuff system a report [ 78 ] , except that 5 day of training be use .
the mouse be analyze in the same procedure room a be use for iop measurment .
clinical examination
for most strain , anterior chamber be examine with a slit lamp biomicroscope [ 16 ] .
at least 8 mouse of each strain show in figure 1 be evaluate .
however , the anterior chamber of c57blks / j mouse be only evaluate under a dissection microscope at the time of iop measurement .
histological analysis
eye from at least 2 mouse of the list strain be fix ( 4 % paraformaldehyde or fekete 's acid - alcohol - formalin fixative ) process , paraffin embed and section a previously report [ 15 , 79 ] , except that the paraformaldehyde be buffer with 0.1 m phosphate buffer .
all strain other than cba / cahn and c57blks / j strain be evaluate .
the eye of cba / caj and balb / cj mouse be also fix and process for plastic embedding ( historesin , leica , heidelberg , germany ) , and section a previously report [ 14 , 79 ] .
saggital section include the pupil and optic nerve be collect and analyze a they contain most ocular structure .
analysis of myoc
exon and the proximal promoter of the mouse myoc gene be amplify from mouse genomic dna use the following combination of primer :
exon 1 : 5 ' - cttgcaggagaactttccagaa - 3 ' and 5 ' - atctcgaaggagattgttatagg - 3 '
5 ' - gaccagctggagacccaaaccag - 3 ' and 5 ' - gctcagatccactgacctaaa - 3 '
exon 2 : 5 ' - tgaagccatactttaccaaccat - 3 ' and 5 ' - caaaagggagaagtctaacttc - 3 '
exon 3 : 5 ' - agtcaaggctcacagagctaa - 3 ' and 5 ' - aagagtagctgctcaccgtgtacaag - 3 '
5 ' - agacattgacttagctgtggat - 3 ' and 5 ' - cggaacttcaccttttctggc - 3 '
promoter : 5 ' - taggagaagtctcattatactgc - 3 ' and 5 ' - ttcactggaccagcataagga - 3 '
5 ' - tctgaggatgttcacaggtttat - 3 ' and 5 ' - tcttctggaaagttctcctgca - 3 '
sample undergo 30 cycle of amplification with perkin - elmer taq polymerase in a ptc thermal cycler ( mj research , ma ) ( 94 ° for 40 sec , 57 ° for 1 min , 72 ° for 2 min ) .
the pcr product we purify and sequence a describe [ 22 ] .
abbreviation
intraocular pressure ( iop ) , c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) , chromosome ( chr ) , polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) , carbonic anhydrase ( ca )
acknowledgment
we thank norma buckley , felicia farley and jennifer smith for their assistance with data entry , reference , and figure .
we also thank jane barker for the car2 mouse , marianna mertts for her help with analysis of myoc allele , and member of the john laboratory , tatyana golovkina , edward leiter and timothy o'brien for critical reading of the manuscript .
support in part by ahaf 97437 and g1999023 , nih ey11721 and hl55001 .
core service be subsidize by grant ca34196 .
major funding be provide by the howard hughes medical institute .
swmj be an assistant investigator of the howard hughes medical institute .
mig12 , a novel opitz syndrome gene product partner , be express in the embryonic ventral midline and co-operates with mid1 to bundle and stabilize microtubule
abstract
background
opitz g / bbb syndrome be a genetic disorder characterize by developmental midline abnormality , such a hypertelorism , cleft palate , and hypospadias .
the gene responsible for the x - link form of this disease , mid1 , encode a trim / rbcc protein that be anchor to the microtubule .
the association of mid1 with the cytoskeleton be regulate by dynamic phosphorylation , through the interaction with the α 4 subunit of phosphatase 2a ( pp2a ) .
mid1 act a an e3 ubiquitin ligase , regulate pp2a degradation on microtubule .
result
in spite of these finding , the biological role exert by the opitz syndrome gene product be still unclear and the presence of other potential interact moiety in the mid1 structure prompt u to search for additional cellular partner .
through a yeast two - hybrid screening approach , we identify a novel gene , mig12 , whose protein product interact with mid1 .
we confirm by immunoprecipitation that this interaction occur in vivo and that it be mediate by the mid1 coiled - coil domain .
we find that mig12 be mainly express in the neuroepithelial midline , urogenital apparatus , and digit during embryonic development .
transiently express mig12 be find diffusely in both nucleus and cytoplasm , although it be enrich in the microtubule - organize center region .
consistently with this , endogenous mig12 protein be partially detect in the polymerized tubulin fraction after microtubule stabilization .
when co-transfected with mid1 , mig12 be massively recruit to thick filamentous structure compose of tubulin .
these microtubule bundle be resistant to high dos of depolymerizing agent and be compose of acetylate tubulin , thus represent stabilize microtubule array .
conclusion
our finding suggest that mig12 co-operates with mid1 to stabilize microtubule .
mid1 - mig12 complex might be implicate in cellular process that require microtubule stabilization , such a cell division and migration .
impairment in mig12 / mid1 - mediate microtubule dynamic regulation , during the development of embryonic midline , may cause the pathological sign observe in opitz syndrome patient .
background
opitz syndrome ( o ) be a congenital disorder affect primarily midline structure ( mim 145410 and 300000 ) .
o patient usually present with facial anomaly , include hypertelorism and cleft lip and palate .
o also include laryngo - tracheo - esophageal ( lte ) , cardiac , and genitourinary abnormality .
these symptom show high variability even within the same family [ 1 - 5 ] .
o be a heterogeneous disease with an x - link ( xp22.3 ) and an autosomal locus ( 22q11.2 ) [ 6 ] .
the gene responsible for the x - link form , mid1 , have be identify [ 7 ] .
in male o patient , mutation have be find scattered throughout the entire length of the mid1 gene , suggest a loss of function mechanism at the basis of this developmental phenotype .
female carry a mutate mid1 allele usually show only hypertelorism , likely a the result of differential x - inactivation [ 7 - 11 ] .
interestingly , during embryonic development the murine and avian orthologs of the mid1 gene show an expression pattern that , although not highly restrict , correlate with the tissue affect in o .
within these tissue , the mouse and chick mid1 transcript be preferentially enrich in area of active proliferation [ 12 , 13 ] .
recently , the chick mid1 gene have be show to be involve in the sonic hedgehog pathway during the establishment of the molecular left / right asymmetry in early embryonic avian development [ 14 ] .
mid1 encode a protein belong to the tripartite motif family and be compose of a ring domain , two b - box domain , a coiled - coil region , together form the tripartite motif , follow by a fibronectin type iii ( fniii ) and an rfp - like domain [ 7 , 15 , 16 ] .
the tripartite motif family , also know a trim or rbcc , comprise multi-domain - protein involve in the definition of cellular compartment [ 17 ] .
mid1 self - interact and form high molecular weight complex that be anchor to the microtubule throughout the cell cycle [ 18 , 19 ] .
the most frequent mid1 alteration find in o patient affect the c - terminal portion of the protein .
mutant that reproduce these mutation show an altered microtubule association [ 9 , 18 , 19 ] .
the association of the wild - type protein with microtubule be dynamic and be regulate by it phosphorylation status : dephosphorylation of mid1 , upon interaction with the α 4 regulatory subunit of phosphatase 2a ( pp2a ) [ 20 ] , displace mid1 from microtubule [ 21 , 22 ] .
it have also be report that mid1 function a an e3 ubiquitin ligase , regulate the microtubular pp2a catalytic subunit degradation upon interaction with α 4 .
pp2a degradation , in turn , control the phosphorylation status of yet to be identify microtubule - associate - protein ( map ) [ 23 ] .
we have identify a novel mid1 interact protein through yeast two - hybrid screening .
this novel protein be express in the midline during development and co-operates with mid1 to stabilize the microtubule .
result
identification of mig12 a a novel mid1 partner
to date , insights on the function of mid1 in the cell have emerge from it interaction with the α 4 subunit of phosphatase 2a ( pp2a ) , however , the role of mid1 in the pathogenesis of o be still undetermined [ 21 - 24 ] .
to get clue on possible biological function of mid1 , we search for additional partner by screen a fibroblast two - hybrid library .
midm , a construct encompass the c - terminal half of mid1 , be use a a bait .
this region , which comprise the coiled - coil , the fniii repeat and the rfp - like domain of mid1 , appear to be involve in the anchorage to microtubule [ 9 , 18 , 19 ] .
we obtain 6 positive clone , three of which be of different length , belong to a unique transcript .
the large fragment have an orf of 514 bp , the shortest of 432 bp .
we use blast against the nr and est database and we find perfectly match clone cover an orf of 546 bp .
we derive the complete sequence from the deposit transcript and amplify the entire cdna .
we perform an interaction - mat assay to confirm the binding .
both the full - length and the large original clone obtain from the library specifically interact with the entire mid1 protein ( mida ) ( fig. 1a ) .
we also find positive interaction with portion of the mid1 protein : midd ( coiled - coil ) , midh ( ring - b - box - coiled - coil ) and with midm , the construct use to screen the library .
no interaction be observe with mid1 construct that lack the coiled - coil region ( midf and midc , fig. 1a ) .
the identify clone do not interact with other member of the trim family ( trim19 / pml , trim25 / rfp , trim29 / atdc ) that share structural homology with mid1 [ 17 ] ( data not show ) .
figure 1
identification of a novel mid1 partner .
( a ) interaction - mat assay that confirm mid1 - mig12 interaction in yeast .
b42 fl , mig12 full - length fuse to the b42 activation domain ; b42 or , the large original mig12 clone fuse to the b42 activation domain ; lexa mid , construct encompass different mid1 domain fuse to the lexa dna binding domain : a , full - length ; c , bb ; d , cc ; f , rfp - like ; h , r - bb - cc ; m , cc - fniii - rfp - like .
both the full - length and the original mig12 clone specifically interact with the entire mid1 protein and with some of it truncate mutant , midd , midh and midm , a show by yeast turn blue on x - gal plate and grow on plate lack leucine ( leu ) , only when galactose ( gal ) , and not glucose ( glu ) , be use a carbon source .
abbreviation : bb , b - box1 and b - box2 domain ; cc , coiled - coil domain ; fniii , fibronectin type iii repeat ; r , ring domain .
( b ) amino acid sequence of human ( h ) and mouse ( m ) mig12 and comparison with the zebrafish g12 and the human spot14 protein .
amino acid that be identical at least in the human and murine mig12 be in bold .
conserved amino acid be indicate in gray .
the human and mouse mig12 share 90 % of similarity and 88 % of identity .
the hmig12 and the zebrafish protein share 56 % of similarity and 46 % of identity , whereas the homology with the human spot - 14 protein be 49 % and 31 % , respectively .
there be a gap of 25 aa that be not present in the zebrafish and spot14 protein .
( c ) co-immunoprecipitation experiment show mid1 - mig12 interaction .
western blot ( wb ) analysis use anti-mid1 and anti-ha antibody after immunoprecipitation of hek293 cell transiently transfected with different combination of mycgfp - tag mid1 ( mgfp - mid1 ) and an ha - tag mig12 ( ha - mig12 ) ; + and - indicate the construct transfected in each lane .
the antibody use for the immunoprecipitations ( ip ) be indicate .
mid1 indicate the band correspond to the endogenous protein .
ig , immunoglobulin .
in some experiment , we detect a trace amount of mgfp - mid1 immunoreactivity in cell transform with only mgfp - mid1 and immunoprecipitated with the anti-ha antibody .
this signal be always much less than that see when both tagged construct be transfected together .
( d ) the same a in ( c ) use the mgfp - midm , mgfp - midh and mgfp - midd mutant fusion , instead of the full - length protein , in the co-transfections and an anti-myc antibody for western blot analysis .
the full - length sequence match with various anonymous human ( hypothetical protein strait11499 , nm_021242 ; flj10386 , ak001248 ) and mouse ( al671335 , ak090003 , and nm_026524 riken ) complete cdna sequence and several est in the database .
the human gene be locate in xp11.4 and be compose of two exon , one of which encompass the entire cod region .
the mouse gene be locate in the a1.1 region of the x chromosome .
the human ( genbank accession no. bk001260 ) and mouse ( genbank accession no. ay263385 ) cdna encode a 182 - and a 181 - residue - protein , respectively , display no known domain with the exception of a low score coiled - coil region at the c - terminus of the protein .
this mid1 interactor record the high homology with the zebrafish ' gastrulation specific protein g12 ' ( np_571410 ) , a protein with unknown function [ 25 ] , and with the mammalian spot - 14 ( nm_003251 ) , a protein involve in the metabolism of fatty acid [ 26 , 27 ] .
the novel transcript be dub mig12 for mid1 interact g12 - like protein , after the similarity with the danio rerio protein .
figure 1b show the alignment of the human and mouse mig12 , the zebrafish g12 , and the human spot14 protein .
to confirm that the two protein also interact in vivo , we transiently transfected a mycgfp - tag version of mid1 ( mgfp - mid1 ) and an ha - tag version of mig12 ( ha - mig12 ) in hek293 cell and immunoprecipitated use either anti-mid1 or anti-ha antibody .
immunoprecipitation of mid1 in the co-transfected sample pull down the ha - mig12 protein ( right panel ) and , vice versa , the immunoprecipitation of mig12 use the anti-ha antibody pull down the mgfp - mid1 protein ( left panel ) ( fig. 1c ) .
an unrelated polyclonal antibody and a different anti-tag monoclonal antibody ( anti-flag ) do not pull down the two protein ( data not show ) , confirm the specificity of mid1 - mig12 interaction .
moreover , mig12 transfected alone be also pull down by immunoprecipitation of the endogenous mid1 protein ( fig. 1c ) .
the interaction mating experiment suggest that the coiled - coil region of mid1 be necessary and sufficient for the binding to mig12 .
mgfp tag version of midm , midh , and midd be co-transfected with ha - mig12 in hek293 cell and immunoprecipitated with either anti-myc or anti-ha antibody .
the three construct , all encompass the coiled - coil region , be able to bind mig12 far confirm that , also in vivo , this region be sufficient for mid1 - mig12 interaction ( fig. 1d ) .
mig12 be mainly express in the develop cns midline
since mid1 be implicate in a developmental disorder , to support a physiologically relevant interaction between mig12 and mid1 we analyze the mrna expression of mig12 during embryonic development .
the mig12 clone originally obtain from the two - hybrid screening be use a a probe to perform mrna in situ hybridization on mouse embryo at several embryonic stage .
a ubiquitous expression pattern be find both on section and in whole mount experiment from embryonic day 9.5 ( e9.5 ) up to e11.5 .
at e11.5 , we detect a diffuse staining in the central nervous system ( cns ) and a more restricted signal in the develop limb by whole - mount in situ hybridization ( fig. 2a , a ) .
an even more restricted expression pattern be observe at e14.5 when high transcript level be detect in specific compartment ( fig. 2a , b ) .
the strong expression be observe in the develop central nervous system and be particularly evident in the coronal section through the hindbrain region ( fig. 2b , a – c ) .
the signal be observe in the neuroepithelium of the cerebellar primordium ( fig. 2b , a , b ) , of the pons ( fig. 2b , a , b , e ) , and of the medulla oblongata ( fig. 2b , c ) .
the ventricular hindbrain signal be mainly confine to the ventral midline ( fig. 2b , a , b , c ) .
this medial expression be maintain throughout the central canal of the spinal cord extend through the floor and roof plate ( fig. 2b , d ) .
in the telencephalon , mig12 signal be present in the ventricular zone of the telencephalic vesicle ( fig. 2b , f ) .
within the nervous system , mig12 transcript be also detect in the dorsal root and in the trigeminal ganglion ( fig. 2a , b ; 2b , d ) .
at this stage , expression of mig12 be also observe in several additional organ .
the transcript be observe in the interdigital web in both the develop hind - and forelimb at e11.5 ( fig. 2a , a ) .
at e14.5 , a the development of the limb proceed , mig12 transcript be detect in the perichondrium of the digit ( fig. 2b , g ) .
the other organ express mig12 include the left and right thyroid lobe and the parathyroid gland ( fig. 2b , h ) ; the phallic part of the urogenital sinus ( fig. 2b , i ) ; the anal canal ( rectum ) and the epithelium line the lumen of the bladder ( data not show ) .
interestingly , many of the site that show high mig12 level also express the mid1 transcript [ 12 , 13 ] and be affect in o patient [ 5 , 11 ] .
figure 2
mig12 expression analysis during embryonic development .
( a ) whole mount in situ hybridization on e11.5 mouse embryo show expression in the central nervous system and in the develop limb ( blue signal , a ) .
coronal and sagittal section of e14.5 entire mouse embryo ( white signal ) ( b ) .
( b ) detail of coronal ( a , b , c , d , h ) and sagittal ( e , f , g , i ) section of e14.5 mouse embryo .
strong mig12 expression ( red signal ) be observe in isthmal ( a ) , pontine ( a , b , e ) and medulla oblongata ( c ) neuroepithelia , and it be maintain throughout the entire region of the spinal cord central canal ( d ) .
expression be also observe in dorsal root ganglion ( d ) .
mig12 transcript be detect in the telencephalon at the level of the ventricular zone ( f ) .
signal be also present in other organ : in the perichondrium of the digit ( g ) ; in the thyroid ( th ) and parathyroid ( pth ) gland ( h ) , and in the phallic part of the urogenital sinus ( i ) .
abbreviation : cb , cerebellum ; ccn , central canal neuroepithelium ; drg , dorsal root ganglion ; is , isthmus ; isn , isthmal neuroepithelium ; m , medulla oblongata ; mn , medulla oblongata neuroepithelium ; p , pons ; pc , perichondrium ; pnn , pontine neuroepithelium ; pth , parathyroid gland ; sc , spinal cord ; t , telencephalon ; th , thyroid gland ; u , urogenital sinus ; vz , ventricular zone .
mid1 recruit mig12 on the microtubule
transient expression of either mgfp - or ha - tag mig12 reveal a diffuse distribution of the protein in cos7 as well a in other cell line ( u2os , hela , nih3t3 ) .
to exclude a tag - drive mislocalization , we also transfected a non-tagged version of mig12 : the specific anti-mig12 antibody reveal a distribution comparable to that of the tag version .
mig12 be present in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm and the relative abundance in the two compartment be variable ( fig. 3a ) .
figure 3
immunofluorescence analysis reveal co-localization of mid1 and mig12 within the cell .
( a ) immunofluorescence analysis after transient expression of mgfp - mig12 ( upper panel ) , ha - mig12 ( middle panel ) and untagged mig12 ( low panel ) in cos7 cell , reveal a diffuse distribution of the protein , in both the nucleus and the cytoplasm .
( b ) co-expression of both mid1 and mig12 lead to co-localization of the two protein in cytoplasmic bundle .
standard fluorescence microscopy show formation of bundle only in mid1 ( left panel ) and mig12 ( right panel ) co-expressing cell .
the arrow indicate a single transfected cell where mid1 show the classical distribution along normal interphase microtubule .
( c ) the co-localization be confirm by confocal microscopy analysis in which ha - mid protein be visible a a red signal and mgfp - mig12 protein a a green signal ; co-localization be indicate a a yellow signal in merge image .
( d ) co-localization be also observe use the ha - mig12 construct ( middle panel ) together with either a mid1 o truncate mutant ( gfp - mid1 1331insa ) or a mid1 mutant ( gfp - midd ) retain the coiled - coil domain , both localize in cytoplasmic body .
no co-localization be observe when ha - trim19 / pml protein be co-expressed with gfp - mig12 .
the right panel represent the merge image .
mid1 be associate with microtubule during the entire cell cycle [ 18 , 19 ] .
an example of it distribution be show in figure 3b ( arrow , upper panel ) , where mid1 co-localizes with the normal radial interphase microtubule .
interestingly , when co-expressed in the same cell , mid1 and mig12 form bundle within the cytoplasm ( fig. 3b ) .
mig12 usually also maintain a diffused distribution whose extent depend on it expression level .
a show in the low panel , the observed bundle show variable thickness and shape that depend on the expression level of the two protein .
nevertheless , these bundle be only present when the two protein be co-expressed .
in our experimental condition we do not observe the formation of bundle in cell transfected with only mid1 ( fig. 3b , arrow ) .
the co-localization of mid1 and mig12 within the bundle have be confirm by confocal microscopy analysis ( fig. 3c ) .
we investigate the distribution of mig12 in cell co-transfected with mutant mid1 protein that be not anchor to the microtubule .
mid1 c - terminal o mutant localize to cytoplasmic body [ 9 , 18 , 19 ] .
these mutant form , that retain the coiled - coil region , be able to recruit mig12 within these structure ( fig. 3d , upper panel ) .
the same be observe use a construct that drive the expression of only the coiled - coil domain of mid1 ( fig. 3d , middle panel ) .
this recruitment be not observe when other trim protein , that share the same domain composition of mid1 , be express with mig12 .
this be demonstrate by co-transfections of mig12 with trim19 / pml ( fig. 3d , low panel ) , trim5 or trim27 ( data not show ) .
these result confirm that mid1 , through it coiled - coil domain , be able to specifically recruit mig12 to different structure within the cell .
since mid1 be a microtubular protein , we ask whether the bundle observe in cell co-expressing mig12 and mid1 be structure of microtubular nature .
co-localization of tubulin with the bundle , in immunofluorescence experiment , demonstrate that these structure be microtubule array rearrange by overexpression of the two protein and that be often present a continuous or fragmented perinuclear ring ( fig. 4a ) .
figure 4
mid1 and mig12 co-sediment with microtubule .
( a ) immunofluorescence analysis in cos7 cell co-transfected with ha - mid1 ( left panel ) and mgfpmig12 ( middle panel ) protein .
coincidence of the bundle with microtubule be reveal use monoclonal antibody against β - tubulin ( right panel ) .
these image show the different thickness and distribution of the bundle .
( b ) cos7 cell be transfected with either mgfpmid and ha - mig12 ( left panel ) or ha - mig12 alone ( right panel ) .
lysates ( l ) from cell be supplement with 40 μm taxol to stabilize polymerized microtubule .
after sedimentation on sucrose cushion , supernatant ( s ) and pellet ( p ) fraction be assay for the presence of mid1 , mig12 , and tubulin use appropriate antibody .
in the co-transfection ( left panel ) both mid1 and mig12 be detect in the pellet together with the polymerized microtubule .
a expect mig12 be also present in the soluble fraction where neither mid1 nor the tubulin be find .
mig12 be find partially associate with the polymerized tubulin fraction also in the single ha - mig12 transfected cell ( right panel ) .
( c ) western blot analysis use the anti-mig12 antibody reveal a 24 kda protein in two different cell line lysates ( 1 , cos7 ; 2 , hela cell ) .
to confirm specificity , incubation with the primary antibody be also perform in the presence of either the fusion protein use to immunize rabbit ( gst - mig12 ) or an unrelated fusion protein ( gst - ur ) .
( d ) detection of endogenous mig12 in the polymerized microtubule fraction ( + taxol ) in hela cell and a control in the non-treated sample ( - taxol ) ; legend a in ( a ) .
( e ) single mig12 transfected cos7 cell show partial localization with microtubule , particularly in the mtoc region ( upper panel ) and at the mitotic spindle pole ( low panel ) .
to confirm these data , we perform microtubule sedimentation after taxol treatment in cell co-transfected with both mid1 and mig12 .
after fractionation on a sucrose cushion , the supernatant and the pellet contain the polymerized tubulin be assay by immunoblot for the presence of both protein .
mig12 and mid1 be recover in the pellet , where tubulin be also find .
mig12 , a expect , be also present in the supernatant .
this result far indicate that the bundle observe in immunofluorescence experiment be of microtubular nature ( fig. 4b , left panel ) .
a control protein that do not associate with the microtubule , spastin δ n [ 28 ] , be not present in the microtubule fraction , confirm that the presence of mig12 in the pellet be not due to contamination during the sedimentation process ( data not show ) .
moreover , the presence of mig12 in the pellet , as well a that of tubulin , be lose when the cell be not treat with the microtubule stabilization agent , taxol ( data not show ) .
thus , when overexpressed , mid1 and mig12 have the ability to rearrange interphase radial microtubule into these structure .
interestingly , singly transfected mig12 also partially sediment with the microtubular pellet , a expect to a less extent than the double transfectant ( fig. 4b , right panel ) .
since the affinity purify anti-mig12 antibody we produce allow the specific detection of the endogenous protein in immunoblot experiment in cell line lysates , a show in figure 4c , we carry out sedimentation of polymerize microtubule in hela cell to test the presence of endogenous mig12 in the microtubule pellet .
these result indicate that the protein , likely by interact with endogenous mid1 protein , be at least partially associate with microtubule ( fig. 4d ) .
a close look at some single transfected cell reveal indeed a partial co-localization of mig12 with the microtubule , also in the absence of exogenous mid1 ( fig. 4e ) .
some filament be observe over the diffuse staining and in many cell enrichment of mig12 protein in the mtoc region be evident ( fig. 4e , upper panel ) as well a partial co-localization with the mitotic spindle ( fig. 4e , low panel ) .
mid1 and mig12 induce stable microtubule bundle
to well understand the nature of these microtubule array , we ask what happen to the mid1 - mig12 bundle upon disruption of the microtubular architecture .
cell be co-transfected and expose to nocodazole , a microtubule - depolymerizing agent , for 1 hour before fixation and then analyze by immunofluorescence .
the filament observe after overexpression of the two protein be more resistant to the drug compare to control microtubule ( fig. 5a ) .
in contrast , cell overexpressing only mid1 show complete disruption of the microtubular apparatus , which be consistent with the absence of bundle ( fig. 5a , arrow ) .
partial disruption of the mid1 - mig12 bundle be observe only after long exposure to nocodazole ( 4 h , data not show ) .
figure 5
mid1 and mig12 together stabilize the microtubule .
( a ) nocodazole treatment do not disrupt the mid1 / mig12 generate bundle of tubulin , whereas it disrupt the microtubule in mid1 single transfected cell ( arrow ) .
( b ) the bundle represent stable microtubule a demonstrate by perfect coincidence with the anti-acetylated tubulin antibody signal ( blue ) .
modification of tubulin subunit by acetylation mark old microtubule and therefore indicate those that be more stable [ 29 ] .
specific antibody to acetylate tubulin decorate the mid1 - mig12 induce nocodazole - resistant bundle , thus indicate stable microtubule ( fig. 5b ) .
the ability to stabilize the microtubule be not a characteristic of cell overexpressing mig12 alone : in fact , treatment with nocodazole do not reveal any residual microtubular structure in these cell ( data not show ) .
these data suggest that mig12 co-operates with mid1 to stabilize microtubule .
the mid1 - mig12 microtubule - stabilize effect might be implicate in specific process during the development of the midline system that be affect in opitz syndrome patient .
discussion
the role of the opitz syndrome gene product , mid1 , in the pathogenesis of this human disorder be still unclear [ 14 , 24 ] .
we now present data that support a role of mid1 in the regulation of microtubule dynamic .
we report the identification of a novel gene , mig12 , that encode a mid1 interact protein .
mig12 share high sequence homology with a zebrafish gene product , the ' gastrulation protein g12 ' , which be express in a narrow window of time during d. rerio gastrulation [ 25 ] .
a mig12 paralog in mammal , spot14 , be a nuclear protein that respond to the thyroid hormone and regulate lipid synthesis [ 26 , 27 ] .
however , the mechanism of action for both g12 and spot14 be still unknown .
far , the absence of recognizable domain in it peptide sequence do not allow any a priori hypothesis on mig12 function to be draw .
the expression pattern of mig12 during embryonic development be consistent with that of mid1 [ 12 , 13 ] .
furthermore , this pattern overlap with tissue whose development be defective in o [ 5 , 9 , 11 ] .
the strong expression in the midline of the develop central nervous system might be related to the neurological sign find in a high number of patient that manifest agenesis or hypoplasia of the corpus callosum and of the cerebellar vermis , and mental retardation .
moreover , expression of mig12 in the rostral medial cns could also be involved in the determination of proper craniofacial formation .
it be well know that factor express in the cns midline be implicate in resolve a single eye field into two lateral field , an event that determine the head midline width and the face traits a review in [ 30 , 31 ] .
one of these , sonic hedgehog ( shh ) , play a crucial role in the ventral midline neural tube patterning and regulate the morphogenesis of a variety of midline and lateral organ .
it be interesting to note the recent association of the mid1 gene and the shh pathway in the early midline and laterality specification in the chicken [ 14 ] .
interference with the correct mig12 - mid1 pathway might be responsible for the craniofacial defect observe in o .
expression in the embryonic urogenital and anal apparatus be also reminiscent of defect observe in o , hypospadias and imperforate or ectopic anus .
in addition , we can parallel the inter-digit mig12 expression observe in the mouse embryo with o manifestation , a we observe syndactyly in a mid1 - mutate patient [ 11 ] .
the low frequency of mutation in mid1 and the high variability of the phenotype in o patient suggest the involvement of other gene in the o phenotype .
it be plausible that other protein involve in the mid1 pathway be implicate in the heterogeneity of o ( or in other syndrome show clinical overlap with o ) and mig12 might well be a candidate .
when mig12 be over-expressed , it barely decorate microtubule with a signal almost imperceptible due to it diffused distribution in the cytoplasm .
accordingly , endogenous mig12 be partially find associate with the polymerize tubulin fraction in cell lysates .
interestingly , when co-expressed with mid1 it induce the formation of microtubule bundle .
this effect be not observe when mid1 be express alone .
mid1 specifically recruit mig12 to the microtubule and the consequent induction of bundle could be explain by the propensity of both protein , mid1 [ 18 ] and mig12 ( cb , gm , unpublished result ) , to homo-interact .
the formation of multimers might tether a high number of microtubule interact moiety that , in turn , mediate and favor the association of parallel microtubule array .
the shape and location of these microtubule bundle be variable within the cell : perinuclear ring , sub-cortical bundle and a roundish mass in the mtoc region .
in some case , we also observe fragmentation of these thick microtubular structure ( cb , gm , unpublished result ) that might suggest the involvement of a putative microtubule severing activity [ 32 ] .
these microtubule bundle be resistant to depolymerizing agent , such a nocodazole , and be compose of acetylate tubulin and therefore represent stable microtubule .
this bundle and stabilize effect have be observe for other microtubule binding protein , in particular microtubule - associate - protein ( map ) and other protein involve in mitotic spindle organization , cytokinesis and the control of cell motility such a , prc1 , numa , clasp , and many others [ 33 - 36 ] .
it be worth note that recently two protein share homology with the c - terminal half of mid1 , mir1 and glfnd that have a coiled - coil - fniii - rfp - like structure , have be show to bundle and stabilize microtubule [ 37 , 38 ] .
so far , we have no indication on the behavior of mid1 - mig12 complex during mitosis .
mid1 decorate the mitotic spindle [ 18 ] and mig12 , when transfected alone , appear to be both associate with the spindle pole and diffuse within the cell .
we have never observe mitotic cell overexpressing both protein .
whether this be due to interference with the division process be still to be clarify .
the bundling effect observe in our over-expression system probably reflect a weak and finely tune - regulate process in physiological condition .
the shuttling of mig12 between nucleus and cytoplasm might also be dynamically regulate and , in certain condition , segregation in the nucleus might be necessary to prevent interference with the interphase microtubule network .
mid1 might recruit mig12 to microtubule only when need .
it be possible that phosphorylation of mid1 [ 21 , 22 ] and / or putative post-translational modification of mig12 might regulate their physiological association and the subsequent stabilization of the microtubule network .
the ultimate aim of the regulation of microtubule stability and dynamic involve the mid1 - mig12 pathway be still to be elucidate and may be connect to cell cycle progression or cell migration , event know to require microtubule stabilization [ 39 ] .
alteration of either process can be see a possible cause of pathological sign in o .
mig12 , as well a mid1 , appear to be preferentially express in highly proliferate embryonic field ( e.g. , the ventricular zone of the develop brain ) .
nevertheless , these be also cell that , after mitosis have be complete , be commit to migrate .
the zebrafish gastrulation protein g12 be express in a restricted lineage characterize by extensive cell migration [ 25 ] ; it be tempt to speculate that this process could be the one implicate in the pathogenesis of the opitz syndrome .
conclusion
we have report the identification of a novel opitz syndrome gene product interact protein , mig12 , that co-operates with mid1 to stabilize microtubule .
these data be consistent with the role of mid1 in microtubule dynamic .
mid1 , in fact , control map phosphorylation through the regulation of pp2a microtubular level [ 23 ] and mig12 may participate in this pathway .
during embryonic development of midline structure , impairment in mid1 - mig12 - mediate microtubule dynamic regulation might be detrimental and lead to opitz syndrome .
method
plasmid construct
the mid1 expression vector mycgfp - mid1 and ha - mid1 have already be report [ 18 ] .
the mid1 deletion mutant , midc , midd , midf , midh , and midm have be excise from ha - pcdna3 vector [ 18 ] and clone ecori / xhoi in the two - hybrid vector pjg4 - 5 and peg202 [ 40 ] .
full - length mig12 cdna be generate by pcr amplification , use specific primer design on est sequence , from nih3t3 total rna a template .
the pcr product be then clone into ecori and xhoi site in the eukaryotic expression vector pcdna3 , pcdna3 - mgfp and pcdna3 - ha .
both myc - gfp and ha tag be position at n - terminus region of mig12 cod region .
full - length mig12 be also clone in the pjg4 - 5 two - hybrid vector fuse to the b42 activation domain [ 40 ] .
yeast two - hybrid screening
the two - hybrid screening be perform use midm ( cc - fniii - rfp - like ) clone in peg202 vector that contain the lexa dna - bind domain .
the bait be transform into the yeast strain egy48 that be subsequently transform with an nih3t3 cdna library clone into pjg4 - 5 , contain the b42 activation domain .
transformants ( 5 × 106 independent clone ) be seed on plate contain either x - gal or lack leucine to select positive clone that have activate both lexa drive reporter gene ( lacz and leu2 ) .
interaction mating assay to confirm the positivity be perform use the same system and two different yeast mating type ( egy48 mat α and egy42 mat a ) a describe [ 40 ] .
cell culture and transfection
monkey kidney co - 7 cell and hek 293t cell be culture in dulbecco 's modified eagle 's medium , supplement with 10 % fetal bovine serum , at 37 °c in a 5 % co2 atmosphere .
all transfections be carry out by calcium phosphate precipitation [ 41 ] .
in a typical transfection experiment 20 μg of expression vector be use per 15 - cm dish .
for immunofluorescence experiment , use chamber - slide ( 8 well , nunc ) , 0.5 μg dna / well be transfected .
immunoprecipitation , immunoblot , and antibody
in co-immunoprecipitation experiment 4.5 × 106 hek 293t cell per 15 - cm dish be seed .
60 h after transfection cell be collect , wash and extract with ripa buffer ( 150 mm nacl , 1 % igepal , 0.5 % doc , 0.1 % sd , 50 mm tris - hcl ph 8 ) supplement with protease inhibitor ( roche ) .
extract be sonicated and centrifuge at 10000 g for 10 min at 4 °c to remove cell debris .
the supernatant be immunoprecipitated with either 6 μg of anti-ha antibody , 500 μl anti-myc ( 9e10 ) hybridoma supernatant or 8 μg anti-mid1 polyclonal antibody ( h35 ) [ 18 ] , for 3 h at 4 °c and the immuno-complexes collect with protein a - sepharose bead for 30 min .
the bead be wash six time with ripa buffer and protein elute from the bead by boil in sd loading buffer .
protein be separate on either 10 % or 12 % sd page and blot onto pvdf membrane ( amersham ) .
the membrane be rinse in methanol and block in ttbs ( 20 mm tris - hcl ph 7 , 50 mm nacl and 0.1 % tween - 20 ) , 5 % dry milk .
incubation with the primary antibody be perform use anti-c - myc monoclonal antibody ( 1 : 5 dilution ) , anti-ha monoclonal antibody ( roche ) ( 1 : 500 dilution ) and anti-mid1 polyclonal antibody ( 1 : 250 dilution ) in ttbs , 5 % dry milk .
antibody binding be detect with a secondary anti-mouse or anti-rabbit igg couple with horseradish peroxidase , follow by visualization with the enhance chemiluminescence kit ( amersham ) .
a specific anti-mig12 antiserum have be raise against a full - length mig12 protein fuse to gst and produce in bacteria .
affinity purification of the antibody be perform with the gst - mig12 covalently attach to a cnbr - activate sepharose column use standard procedure .
to perform competition experiment , 20 μg of the same protein be use to compete the binding in immunoblot analysis .
a non-specific competitor , the same amount of an unrelated gst fusion protein ( mid1 ring domain ) be use .
immunofluorescence
cos7 cell be grow on chamber - slide ( 8 well , nunc ) in dmem , 10 % fbs , and transfected a describe .
after 36 h , cell be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde / pb for 10 min at room temperature , permeabilized with 0.2 % triton x - 100 / pb for 30 min , block with normal serum for 1 h and incubate for 3 h with the primary antibody and 1 h with the appropriate secondary antibody .
the follow primary antibody be use : protein a - purify polyclonal anti-mid1 ( 1 : 200 dilution ) , monoclonal anti-β - tubulin ( 1 : 250 dilution ) ( molecular probe ) , monoclonal anti-ha ( ca25 ) antibody ( 1 : 250 dilution ) ( roche ) , monoclonal anti-acetylated tubulin ( 1 : 200 dilution ) ( sigma ) .
the follow secondary antibody be use : fluorescein isothiocyanate ( fitc ) - conjugate anti-rabbit antibody alone or both tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate ( tritc ) conjugate anti-rabbit and fitc conjugate anti-mouse - antibody ( 1 : 100 dilution ) ( dako ) .
for confocal microscopy , cy3 - conjugate anti-mouse antibody be use ( 1 : 200 dilution ) ( amersham ) .
when indicate , nocodazole in dmso be add at the final concentration of 40 μm for 1 h at 37 °c before fixation .
microtubule binding assay
cell be harvest either 48 hour post-transfection ( cos7 cell ) or when at 80 % confluence ( non-transfected hela cell ) and lysed in pem - dnna buffer ( 80 mm pipe ph 6.8 , 1 mm egta , 1 mm mgcl2 , 0.5 mm dtt , 150 mm nacl , 1 % igepal ) supplement with protease inhibitor , at 4 °c for 1 hr .
the lysate be centrifuge at 610 g for 10 min at 4 °c .
cytosol be then purify by successive centrifugation at 10,000 g for 10 min , at 21,000 g for 20 min and at 100,000 g for 1 hr at 4 °c .
each supernatant be then supplement with 2 mm gtp ( roche ) and 40 μm taxol ( molecular probe ) and incubate at 37 °c for 30 min .
correspond sample without taxol be also prepare .
each sample be layer over a 15 % sucrose cushion and centrifuge at 30,000 g for 30 min at 30 °c to sediment polymerize microtubule .
the result supernatant be save and the pellet be suspend in an equal volume of sample buffer for electrophoresis and immunoblot analysis .
rna in situ hybridization
one of the original clone obtain from the screening ( 540 bp fragment whose 5 ' correspond to nt 113 of the mig12 coding region ) be linearize with the appropriate restriction enzyme to transcribe either sense or antisense 35s - label riboprobe .
mouse embryo tissue section be prepare and rna in situ hybridization experiment perform a previously describe [ 42 ] .
autoradiograph be expose for 2 day .
slide be then dip in kodak ntb2 emulsion and expose for 14 – 21 day .
in the micrographs red represent the hybridization signal and blue show the nucleus stain with hoechst 33258 dye .
whole - mount in situ hybridization be perform use the same probe and follow the protocol describe in [ 43 ] .
author ' contribution
cb carry out the two - hybrid screening , the rna in situ hybridization analysis , the immunoprecipitation and immunofluorescence study .
bf produce the anti-mig12 specific antibody and perform the microtubule sedimentation experiment .
rf provide assistance in the cloning and preparation of the vector .
gm coordinate the study and write the paper .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
we thank salvatore arbucci ( igb - abt , naples ) and francesca de falco for assistance with the confocal microscopy and alexandre reymond and alessia errico for helpful suggestion .
we be grateful to graciana diez - roux , elena rugarli and graziella persico for a critical reading of the manuscript .
this work be support by the italian telethon foundation and by research grant no. 1 - fy00 - 700 from the march of dime birth defect foundation .
morphological characterization of the alphaa - and alphab - crystallin double knockout mouse lens
abstract
background
one approach to resolve some of the in vivo function of alpha - crystallin be to generate animal model where one or both of the alpha - crystallin gene product have be eliminate .
in the single alpha - crystallin knockout mouse , the remain alpha - crystallin may fully or partially compensate for some of the function of the miss protein , especially in the lens , where both alphaa and alphab be normally express at high level .
the purpose of this study be to characterize gross lenticular morphology in normal mouse and mouse with the target disruption of alphaa - and alphab - crystallin gene ( alphaa / bko ) .
method
lens from 129svevtac mouse and alphaa / bko mouse be examine by standard scanning electron microscopy and confocal microscopy methodology .
result
equatorial and axial ( sagittal ) dimension of lens for alphaa / bko mouse be significantly small than age - match wild type lens .
no posterior suture or fiber cell extend to the posterior capsule of the lens be find in alphaa / bko lens .
ectopical nucleic acid staining be observe in the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk and anterior subcapsular cortex of 54 wk alphaa / bko lens .
gross morphological difference be also observe in the equatorial / bow , posterior and anterior region of lens from alphaa / bko mouse a compare to wild mouse .
conclusion
these result indicate that both alphaa - and alphab - crystallin be necessary for proper fiber cell formation , and that the absence of alpha - crystallin can lead to cataract formation .
background
alpha - crystallin be comprise of two polypeptide , alphaa - crystallin ( alphaa ) and alphab - crystallin ( alphab ) , which share 55 % amino acid sequence homology [ 1 ] .
they be the most abundant protein in lens fiber cell [ 2 , 3 ] and exist a heteroaggregates of approximately 800 kda that can undergo inter-aggregate subunit exchange [ 4 ] .
the expression of these two protein in the lens epithelium , however , be not uniform throughout different region of the anterior epithelium .
alphab expression be detect in central epithelium and increase from the central to elongation zone , where epithelial cell differentiate into fiber cell .
alphaa , however , be not detect in the central epithelium .
the relative proportion of alphaa and alphab change from a molar ratio of 1 : 3 in the pericentral and germative zone to a molar ratio of 3 : 1 in the elongation zone and fiber cell [ 2 , 3 ] .
these difference in the relative proportion of alphaa and alphab within the lens suggest different function for the two subunit in the develop lens .
prior to the 1990 's , alpha - crystallin be think to be a structural protein whose major cellular function be to produce a dense solution necessary for the refraction of light in the lens .
during the early 1990 's , alpha - crystallin be show to act a a molecular chaperone , bind to partially denature protein , both in vitro [ 5 ] and probably in vivo [ 6 ] , to inhibit further denaturation and aggregation of lens protein .
alphaa and alphab be also show to have sequence homology with several other protein that be member of the small heat shock protein ( hsp ) family [ 7 ] .
moreover , expression of alpha - crystallin , particularly alphab , be show to not be restrict to the lens .
alphab be find to be express at significant level in a variety of nonlenticular tissue , while alphaa have only be detect in small amount in a few other tissue such a retina , spleen and thymus [ 8 - 12 ] .
collectively , these finding have challenge the dogma that alpha - crystallin be purely a structural protein necessary for light refraction , and have lead to the realization that alpha - crystallin may have a variety of biological function in the lens .
a much broad scope of cellular function of alpha - crystallin in lens be infer from in vitro observation .
both alphaa and alphab can bind specifically to actin , in vitro [ 13 ] and in vivo [ 14 ] .
although actin filament formation have be show to be necessary for differentiation of lens epithelial cell [ 15 ] , the significance of alpha - crystallin 's interaction with actin in differentiation be not know .
in the lens , alpha - crystallin also associate with type iii intermediate filament protein and the bead filament protein cp49 and cp115 , and correct bead filament assembly have be show depend on the presence of alpha - crystallin [ 16 ] .
bead filament mrna level be greatly increase in differentiate lens epithelium and have be suggest a a pan-specific marker for lens fiber development [ 17 ] .
alpha - crystallin have also be show to interact directly with dna [ 18 ] .
in transfected cho cell , alphab have also be show to ectopically localize to interphase nucleus , suggest a role for this protein in the nucleus [ 19 ] .
a nuclear role for alphab in the lens be support by the finding that a subset of lens epithelial cell derive from alphab knockout mouse demonstrate hyperproliferation and genomic instability [ 20 ] .
in addition , the administration of exogenous alpha - crystallin to primary bovine lens epithelial cell culture result in the formation of lentoid body , consistent with a role for these protein in lens differentiation [ 21 ] .
these finding indicate that alpha - crystallin may have a multitude of in vivo function .
one approach to resolve some of the in vivo function of alpha - crystallin be to generate animal model where one or both of the alpha - crystallin gene product have be eliminate .
brady et al. [ 22 ] demonstrate , by target disruption of the mouse alphaa gene , that this protein be essential for the maintenance of lens transparency , possibly by maintain the solubility of alphab , or associate protein , in the lens .
these lens be also report to be small in equatorial and light axial dimension than age match wild type lens .
it be not possible use the technique employ in the study to determine if the small lens be due to reduce volume or number of fiber cell .
target disruption of the mouse alphab gene result in lens similar in size to aged - match wild type lens .
moreover , no cataract formation be observe in the alphab knockout lens .
these animal have muscle cell abnormality , severe postural anomaly , selective muscle degeneration , and short life span compare to normal control [ 23 ] .
in the single alpha - crystallin knockout mouse , the remain alpha - crystallin may fully or partially compensate for some of the function of the miss protein , especially in the lens , where both alphaa and alphab be normally express at high level .
the objective of the current report be to characterize gross morphology of young ( 5 wk ) and old ( 54 wk ) mouse lens with target disruption of both the alphaa and alphab gene , in comparison to age match wild type lens , use scan electron microscopy ( sem ) and confocal microscopy , to elucidate the possible function of alpha - crystallin in the lens .
the result indicate that alpha - crystallin be necessary for proper fiber cell formation and result lens transparency .
method
lens
the wild type mouse strain use in this study be the 129svevtac mouse .
lens examine be from 5 ( 8 lens ) , 46 ( 8 lens ) and 72 ( 6 lens ) wk old mouse .
alphaa / bko be generate by cross breed alphaako - 127 [ 22 ] and alphabko - 168 mouse [ 23 ] , also in a 129sv background .
these mouse also lack the hspb2 gene product [ 23 ] .
lens examine be from 5 wk ( 6 lens ) and 54 wk ( 16 lens ) old mouse .
all animal be treat in accordance with the association for research in vision and ophthalmology statement for the use of animal in ophthalmic and vision research .
immediately after euthanizing animal , eye be enucleate .
a scalpel blade be then use to make a small incision into the anterior chamber near the equator and then both eye from individual animal be immerse in 5 ml fixative ( 2 % ( w / v ) paraformaldehyde and 2 % glutaraldehyde ( v / v ) in 0.1 m sodium cacodylate buffer , ph 7.2 ) .
eye be fix for at least 24 hr at room temperature ( rt ) prior to dissection of the lens .
at this time , equatorial and axial dimension of lens and gross lenticular appearance be record .
statistical analysis on data consist of student 's t - test , mean and standard deviation , use the statistical software package statmost ( dataxiom software inc. , los angeles , ca ) .
confocal microscopy
lens be vibratome section into 100 – 200 μm thick section along the optical ( anterior to posterior ) or equatorial ax .
thick section be fix in 2 % ( w / v ) paraformaldehyde and 2 % glutaraldehyde ( v / v ) in 0.1 m sodium cacodylate buffer ph 7.2 at rt for 24 hr then wash several time in tris buffer saline ( 0.5 m tris , 150 mm nacl , ph 7.4 ) .
to visualize lipid membrane , section be stain with 1 , 1 ' - dioctadecyl - 3 , 3 , 3 ' , 3 ' - tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate ( ' dii ' ; diic18 ; molecular probe ) a previously describe [ 24 ] .
section be then wash several time with tris buffer saline , and nucleic acid be stain by incubate section in tb contain 1 μm sytox green ( molecular probe ) for 10 min at rt follow by several wash with tb prior to confocal imaging .
lens section be view on a zeiss laser scanning confocal microscope model lsm 410 equip with an axiovert 100 inverted microscope , an argon - krypton 488 / 568 / 647 laser , a kp line selection filter , a ft 488 / 568 dichroic beam splitter , a ft 560 dichroic beam splitter , a lp 590 emission filter for view dii , a bp 515 – 540 emission filter for view sytox green , and the software package lsm 3.993 .
scanning electron microscopy
lens bisect along the optical ax be immersion fix in 2 % ( w / v ) paraformaldehyde and 2 % glutaraldehyde ( v / v ) in 0.1 m sodium cacodylate buffer ph 7.2 at rt for 24 hr .
sample be then wash several time with distilled water and postfixed in 1 % ( v / v ) aqueous osmium tetroxide at rt for 1 hr .
lens half be dehydrate in an ascend ethanol series from 50 – 100 % .
once lens half be in 100 % ethanol , they be critical point dry in carbon dioxide in a samdri - 790b ( tousimis research corp. , rockville , md ) .
critical point dry lens half be secure on aluminum stub with double side tape .
mount specimen be then sputter coat with gold and view on a hitachi s - 3500n scanning electron microscope ( tokyo , japan ) at 1 – 5 kv .
this microscope be equip with hitachi 's patent " dual - bias " which allow extremely high emission current at acceleration voltage of 5 kv and low .
result
equatorial and axial ( sagittal ) dimension of lens , and gross lenticular appearance , be record ( table 1 ) .
alphaa / bko lens at 5 wks of age be significantly small ( p < 0.05 ) , both equatorially and axially , than 5 wk old wild type lens and remain small throughout life .
fifty - four wk old alphaa / bko lens be much small than similarly age normal lens , and be similar in size to 5 wk old wild type lens .
both the 5 wk old wild type lens and the 54 wk old alphaa / bko lens be significantly small ( p < 0.01 ) than the 46 or 72 wk old wild type lens .
alphaa / bko lens at 5 wks of age exhibit vacuole at the equatorial region ( figure 1a see arrow ) and an area of slight light scatter at the posterior subcapsular region ( figure 1b see arrowhead ) .
by 54 wks of age , alphaa / bko lens exhibit dense cortical and nuclear cataract ( figure 1c ) .
no posterior suture be observe in any of the alphaa / bko lens examine .
all wild type lens be transparent upon removal from the eye ( figure 1d , 1e and 1f ) and have well define posterior suture .
figure 1
light micrographs of lens dissect from fix eye of alphaa / bko ( a - c ) and wild type ( d - f ) mouse .
all micrographs be generate use a 4 × / 0.10 objective on a zeiss lsm 410 use transmit light mode .
image in ( a & b ) be enlarged compare to image ( c - f ) ( see scale bar ) .
for all micrographs except ( b ) the objective focal point be set at the equatorial plane of the lens , while ( b ) be set at the posterior pole of the lens .
( a & b ) representative micrographs of lens from 5 wk alphaa / bko mouse , show change in the equatorial ( a ) and posterior sub capsular ( b ) region .
( c ) representative micrograph of 54 wk alphaa / bko mouse lens show dense whole lens cataract .
( d - f ) representative clear lens from 5 wk ( d ) , 46 wk ( e ) , and wk 72 ( f ) wild type mouse .
arrow ( a ) indicate vacuole in the equatorial region of a representative 5 wk alphaa / bko lens .
the arrowhead ( b ) indicate an area of minor light scatter deep to the posterior capsule in a representative 5 wk alphaa / bko lens .
table 1
dimension and gross lenticular appearance of lens .
examination of mid-axial section stain with dii and sytox green reveal unique difference in gross morphology and nucleic acid staining between alphaa / bko lens and wild type lens ( figure 2 ) .
in five week old alphaa / bko lens , sytox green stain nucleus ( green ) in the anterior epithelium , equatorial / bow , and posterior subcapsular region ( figure 2a ) .
cell nucleus localize to the equatorial / bow region be disorganize a compare to wild type .
there be enlarge extracellular space between cell in the equatorial / bow region in 5 wk old alphaa / bko lens .
fifty - four wk old alphaa / bko lens ( figure 2b ) do not stain for nucleic acid in the posterior subcapsular region , however , the entire anterior subcapsular lens region stain for nucleic acid ( refer to figure 3i for high magnification / resolution image of this area ) .
a define equatorial / bow region be not observe in these old lens , and fiber cell extend to the posterior capsule of the lens be not find .
disorganized cellular material cap the anterior region of the embryonic / fetal nucleus , and a distinctive indentation of the lens mass at the equatorial region be apparent in mid-axial section as well a whole lens .
in alphaa / bko lens the embryonic / fetal nucleus ( primary lens fiber ) have migrate posteriorly and appear to be in contact with the posterior capsule .
in 5 wk , 46 wk or 72 wk old wild type lens ( figure 2c , 2d and 2e ) , however , there be no posterior or anterior subcapsular nucleic acid staining and the embryonic - fetal nucleus be centrally located , not in contact with the posterior capsule .
figure 2
representative confocal optical section take from mid-axial vibratome section of alphaa / bko ( a & b ) and wild type ( c - e ) lens .
all optical section be generate use a 4 × / 0.10 objective on a zeiss lsm 410 .
the red color represent dii staining ( membrane ) , while the green color represent sytox green staining ( dna ) .
( a & b ) be take from 5 wk and 54 wk alphaa / bko lens , respectively .
( c - e ) be take from 5 wk , 46 wk , and 72 wk wild type lens , respectively .
the arrowhead indicate representative anterior epithelial nucleus stain with sytox green .
figure 3
representative confocal optical section from alphaa / bko ( a - j ) and wild type ( k - t ) lens .
all optical section be generate use a 63 × / 1.4 objective on a zeiss lsm 410 .
the red color represent dii staining ( membrane ) , while the green color represent sytox green staining ( dna ) .
( a - e ) be from 5 wk alphaa / bko lens .
( f - j ) be from 54 wk alphaa / bko lens .
( k - o ) be from 5 wk wild type lens .
( p - t ) be from 46 wk wild type lens .
( a , f , k , and p ) be anterior central cortex and epithelium .
( b , g , l , and q ) be equatorial bow region .
( c , h , m , and r ) be embryonic / fetal nucleus .
( d , i , n , and s ) be deep anterior cortex .
( e , j , o , and t ) be posterior subcapsular region .
( * ) indicate area devoid of cellular material ( b and g ) .
arrow indicate posterior suture ( o ) .
arrowhead indicate representative nucleus stain with sytox green ( a , b , e , f , g , i , k , l , p , and q ) .
at high magnification , examination of section stain with dii and sytox green reveal ultrastructural difference between alphaa / bko lens and wild type lens ( figure 3 ) .
anterior epithelial staining in 5 wk old alphaa / bko ( figure 3a ) and 5 wk old wild type lens be similar ( figure 3k ) with respect to nuclear staining with sytox green .
however , some difference in 54 wk old alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3f ) be observe in the central anterior epithelium compare to 5 wk ( figure 3k ) , 46 wk ( figure 3p ) , and 72 wk ( data not show ) wild type lens .
these difference include change in central epithelial nuclear staining , nuclear shape and epithelial thickness and continuity .
superficial and deep anterior cortical staining be grossly different between alphaa / bko ( figure 3a , 3d , 3f and 3i ) and wild type lens ( figure 3k , 3n , 3p and 3 ) .
in 5 and 54 wk old alphaa / bko lens , superficial and deep anterior cortical region , stain for lipid membrane , do not reveal any pattern typical of fiber cell cut in cross-section or longitudinal section .
in 5 wk alphaa / bko lens there be a high density of stain membrane per unit area throughout the cortex , with no nucleic acid staining in these region .
in 54 wk alphaa / bko lens , large , irregularly shape cell be observe , interspersed among region of high membrane staining density per unit area .
these large object be not vacuole , because examination of the interior of these structure by transmit and reflect light microscopy show that the membrane encompass cellular material ( data not show ) .
in addition , nucleic acid staining be observe ( figure 3f and 3i ) within many of these cell exhibit large cross-sectional profile .
in the wild type lens , typical cross-sectional pattern of fiber cell organize in radial column be observe ( figure 3k , 3n , 3p and 3 ) .
ultrastructural difference at the equatorial / bow region be also observe between alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3b and 3g ) and wild type lens ( figure 3l and 3q ) .
in contrast to wild type lens ( figure 3l and 3q ) , the alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3b and 3g ) contain large area devoid of cellular material , their nucleus be not limit to a well define equatorial / bow region , and order radial column of elongate fiber cell extend from the posterior capsule to the anterior epithelium be not observe .
in addition to the equatorial region , ultrastructural difference between alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3c and 3h ) and wild type lens ( figure 3m and 3r ) be observe in fiber cell of the embryonic and fetal nucleus .
in 5 wk alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3c ) , a great variation in cross sectional diameter be observe , with cell diameter range from less than 2 micron up to approximately 25 micron , compare to the 5 wk and 46 wk wild type lens , whose diameter range from less than 2 micron up to approximately 10 micron ( figure 3m and 3r ) .
at 54 wk , these cell in the alphaa / bko lens be large in cross sectional diameter than wild type , and exhibit a much great variation in the cross sectional size and cell shape .
cell adjacent to the posterior capsule of 5 wk alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3e ) exhibit nucleic acid staining , be small and non-elongated , with numerous membrane projection .
, these be , however , not observe in 54 wk alphaa / bko lens .
in 5 wk alphaa / bko lens , deep to the posterior capsule , large diameter cell , similar to those observe in the embryonic / fetal nucleus be observe ( data not show ) .
fiber cell of similar dimension and appearance to embryonic / fetal nuclear fiber be see at the posterior capsule in 54 wk alphaa / bko lens ( figure 3j ) .
in both 5 and 54 wk alphaa / bko lens , no posterior suture could be find in any axial or equatorial vibratome section examine .
posterior suture be readily find in vibratome section of wild type lens ( figure 3o , arrow ) .
fiber cell attach to the posterior capsule and extend anteriorly be observe in 5 wk ( figure 3o ) , 46 wk ( figure 3t ) and 72 wk ( data not show ) wild type lens .
sem confirm many of the observation make by confocal microscopy .
in the equatorial / bow region , a disorganized array of relatively small irregular shape cell be observe in 5 wk ( figure 4a ) and 54 wk ( figure 4d ) alphaa / bko lens , while elongate fiber cell organize into radial column , with ball and socket interdigitations , be observe in 5 wk ( figure 4g ) , 46 wk ( figure 4j ) and 72 wk ( data not show ) wild type lens .
in the anterior cortical region of 5 wk alphaa / bko lens , radial column of cell with numerous cell surface projection be observe ( figure 4b ) , but these radial column be no longer present at 54 week of age ( figure 4e ) .
in these old lens , irregularly shape , convolute cell , with no recognizable pattern of organization , be present .
in contrast , radial column of elongate fiber cell of uniform size and shape , with ball and socket interdigitations , be present in the anterior cortical region of 5 wk ( figure 4h ) , 46 wk ( figure 4k ) and 72 week ( data not show ) wild type lens .
the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk ( figure 4c ) and 54 wk ( figure 4f ) alphaa / bko lens be fill with irregularly shape cell with numerous cell surface projection .
in the fetal / embryonic nucleus , elongate fiber cell with numerous long , finger - like projection and furrow membrane be evident ( not show ) .
no elongate cell extend from the bow region to the posterior capsule of alphaa / bko lens be observe .
in contrast , radial column of elongate fiber cell of uniform size and shape contain ball and socket interdigitations be observe in the posterior subcapsular region in 5 wk ( figure 4i ) , 46 wk ( figure 4l ) and 72 wk ( data not show ) wild type lens , and fiber cell in contact with the posterior capsule could be trace back to the equatorial bow region and anterior epithelium .
figure 4
representative scanning electron micrographs of alphaa / bko ( a - f ) and wild type ( g - l ) lens .
( a - c ) representative image from 5 wk alphaa / bko lens .
( d - f ) representative image from 54 wk alphaa / bko lens .
( g - i ) representative image from 5 wk wild type lens .
( j - l ) representative image from 46 wk wild type lens .
( a , d , g , and j ) equatorial / bow region .
( b , e , h , and k ) anterior cortex .
c , ( f , i , and l ) posterior subcapsular region .
discussion
one approach to resolve some of the in vivo function of alpha - crystallin be to generate animal model where one or both of the alpha - crystallin gene product have be eliminate .
brady et al. [ 22 ] demonstrate , by target disruption of the mouse alphaa gene , that this protein be essential for the maintenance of lens transparency , possibly by maintain the solubility of alphab , or associate protein , in the lens .
these lens be also report to be small in equatorial and axial dimension than age match wild type lens , which be very similar to that which be observe with the double knockout lens .
target disruption of the mouse alphab gene , however , result in lens similar in size to aged - matched wild type lens with no cataract report [ 23 ] .
this indicate that alphaa may play a great role in maintain the transparency of the lens then alphab .
in the single alpha - crystallin knockout mouse , the remain alpha - crystallin may fully or partially compensate for some of the function of the miss protein , especially in the lens , where both alphaa and alphab be normally express at high level .
this be support by the morphological observation make in this study of no posterior suture or fiber cell extend to the posterior capsule of the lens , ectopically stain nucleic acid in the posterior subcapsular region of 5 wk and anterior subcapsular cortex of 54 wk , gross morphological difference in the equatorial / bow , posterior and anterior region of lens from alphaa / bko mouse a compare to wild mouse .
none of these morphological difference have be report in the single alphaa or alphab knockout mouse .
it must be note , however , that the alphaa / bko mouse also lack the hspb2 gene product [ 23 ] and the contribution of this protein to normal lens morphology and function should not be overlook .
future study should address the possible function of hspb2 in normal lens .
the result of the current study support the hypothesis that alpha - crystallin play an active role in the differentiation and growth of lens fiber cell .
normal differentiation of lens fiber cell consist of a progression from a simple cuboidal epithelial cell , contain a nucleus and a minimal number of organelle , to a stratified layer of elongate fiber - like cell , devoid of nucleus and organelle .
differentiation of epithelial cell occur in the equatorial / bow region of the lens , where epithelial cell begin to elongate and differentiate into fiber cell of uniform cellular shape , arrange in radial column of cell extend from the anterior epithelium to the posterior capsule .
this process do not appear to have proceed normally in lens lack alphaa and alphab .
the morphological observation present in this study demonstrate that fiber cell in lens lack alphaa and alphab fail to elongate symmetrically from the bow region and therefore do not establish the typical " onion skin " conformation in which cell extend from the anterior epithelium to the posterior capsule .
additionally , in lens from 54 wk alphaa / bko lens , there be a persistence of cell nucleus in deep cortical region , and ectopic cell nucleus be present in large number in the anterior central cortex .
at 5 wks of age cell nucleus be present , adjacent to the posterior capsule .
these morphological observation be consistent with a defect in the normal differentiation pathway of lens epithelial cell into fiber cell .
it be unlikely that these alteration in alphaa / bko mouse lens result from increase susceptibility of these lens to light - induce damage in the absence of the molecular chaperone protection afford by alphaa and alphab in normal lens .
with the normal time of eye opening at approximately 14 day after birth , the 5 wk old mouse have their eye open and lens expose to light for only about 3 week prior to morphological analysis .
moreover , these animal have be expose to only animal facility fluorescent lighting and be protect from uv light by plastic cage .
if lack of protection from light - induce damage be the major factor affect the change in these lens , then the bulk of the damage should have reside along the visual axis , particularly in the central anterior epithelium and subcapsular cortex in the 5 wk lens , but this be not the case .
in these lens , gross morphological change be apparent in the equatorial and posterior subcapsular region .
these change include posterior subcapsular nucleic acid staining , absence of posterior suture , and small irregularly shape cell , not arrange in any discernable pattern , in the equatorial / bow region .
systemic stress factor cross the blood / aqueous barrier might explain some morphological change at the equatorial region , but this would not explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region .
in the 5 wk alphaa / bko lens , nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region be consistent with either anterior epithelial cell migrate aberrantly to the posterior pole , or primary fiber cell fail to fully differentiate by 5 wks of age .
these two possibility could not be differentiate in the method employ , and be beyond the objective of the current study .
future study be be design to address which of these two process might explain nucleic acid staining in the posterior subcapsular region .
stain in this region be not observe in old alphaa / bko lens , suggest that this pattern be transient .
the fate of the nucleic acid - contain cell in the posterior capsular region of young lens be not know at this time , nor be the morphology of early stage lens .
future study with define objective to address the development and progression of morphological change see in this study be be design .
the morphological difference in alphaa / bko lens , compare to age match wild type lens , be consistent with the hypothesis that alpha - crystallin play an active role in the differentiation and growth of lens fiber cell .
in addition , it be clearly evident that alpha - crystallin be necessary for lens transparency .
the final biological event in a lens epithelial cell 's life be the transformation from an epithelial cell into a fiber cell , which occur at the equatorial / bow region of the lens .
the newly form fiber cell continue to differentiate in the cortex until a mature fiber cell devoid of organelle with suture formation at the end of the cell be form .
this entire process from epithelial cell to mature fiber cell be define a lens differentiation .
the precise spatial and temporal expression of the crystallin protein in the develop lens may not be simply a consequence of the differentiation process , but instead may play an important , if not essential , role in the differentiation process itself .
the result of the current study support this hypothesis .
the exact in vivo molecular mechanism , by which alpha - crystallin might influence lens epithelial cell differentiation , and maintenance of lens transparency , remain to be determine .
alphaa and alphab be member of the shsp family [ 7 ] .
previous study have show that the alpha - crystallin possess molecular chaperone activity , bind to partially denature protein , both in vitro [ 5 ] and probably in vivo [ 6 ] , to inhibit further denaturation .
although this property may be a major contributor to the maintenance of lens clarity , the early change in the alphaa / bko lens indicate a much broad cellular function for alpha - crystallin .
stress protein have be show to be express in non-stressed cell during development and differentiation [ 25 ] .
hsps be show to be express during the differentiation of mammalian osteoblast and promelocytic leukemia cell [ 26 ] .
in addition , hsp expression have be show to accompany growth arrest in human b lymphocyte [ 27 ] and macrophage differentiation of hl 60 cell [ 28 ] .
during myogenic differentiation , mrna for alphab increase in conjunction with the induction of mrna for myogenin , the early know event in myogenesis [ 29 ] .
the addition of exogenous alpha - crystallin to primary bovine lens epithelium be show to induce rapid change in cell shape , lead to the formation of lentoid body [ 21 ] .
these study strongly suggest that the hsp family of protein have other function in addition to protect protein and cell during stress .
alpha - crystallin may play a functional role in the cell nucleus and may have a role in regulate the cell cycle .
several heat shock protein have be find in cell nucleus in the absence of stress [ 30 ] , and alpha - crystallin have be show to interact directly with dna [ 18 ] .
alphab , express in transfected cho cell , have be show to ectopically localize to interphase nucleus , suggest a regulatory role for this protein in the nucleus [ 19 ] .
a subset of immortalize lens epithelial cell from alphabko mouse have be show to hyperproliferate [ 20 ] suggest that alphab may be important in maintain genomic stability .
in lens epithelium derive from alphaako lens , cell growth rate be report to be 50 % low compare to wild type [ 31 ] , suggest a role for alphaa in regulate the cell cycle .
all of these finding raise many question a to the possible role ( s ) of alpha - crystallin in the nucleus and in cell cycle regulation during differentiation .
in the current study , the observation of a disorganized pattern of nucleus localize to the equatorial bow region of alphaa / bko lens , and nucleic acid staining of structure throughout the anterior cortex of 54 wk alphaa / bko lens , be consistent with a role for alpha - crystallin in the nucleus .
there be extensive evidence from previous study demonstrate that alpha - crystallin play a role in the cytoskeletal organization .
both alphaa and alphab can bind specifically to actin , both in vitro [ 13 ] and in vivo [ 14 ] .
actin filament formation have be show to be necessary for the differentiation of lens epithelial cell [ 15 ] , however , the significance of alpha - crystallin interaction with actin in differentiation be not know .
in the lens , alpha - crystallin also form a complex with type iii intermediate filament protein and the lens - specific bead filament protein cp49 and cp115 , which may be critical for proper filament assembly [ 16 ] .
bead filament mrna level increase greatly in differentiate lens epithelial cell , and have be suggest a a pan-specific marker for lens fiber cell [ 17 ] .
it be therefore possible that increase synthesis of alpha - crystallin in epithelial cell early in the differentiation process may have profound effect upon the cytoskeleton , which in turn may profoundly affect cell shape and migration .
the lack of cellar organization and uniform cell shape at the equatorial region observe in alphaa / bko lens support this hypothesis .
study be currently underway to characterize cytoskeletal organization in the alphaa / bko lens .
compete interest
none declare
author ' contribution
dlb conceive and design the study , carry out sample preparation , confocal microscopy , scanning electron microscopy , statistical analysis , and draft the manuscript .
jpb assist in the production of the alpha / bko mouse .
efw assist in the production of the alphaa / bko mouse , experimental design , and initial fixation of sample .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
pre-publication history
the pre-publication history for this paper can be access here :
acknowledgement
this research be support in part by a nih grant for vision research ey02932 award to lt .
molecular cloning and characterization of the mouse acdp gene family
abstract
background
we have recently clone and characterize a novel gene family name ancient conserve domain protein ( acdp ) in human .
to facilitate the functional study of this novel gene family , we have clone and characterize acdp , the mouse homologue of the human acdp gene family .
result
the four acdp gene ( acdp1 , acdp2 , acdp3 and acdp4 ) contain 3,631 bp , 3,244 bp , 2,684 bp and 2,743 bp of cdna sequence , and encode deduce protein of 951 , 874 , 713 and 771 amino acid , respectively .
the mouse acdp gene show very strong homology ( > 90 % ) in both nucleotide and amino acid sequence to their human counterpart .
in addition , both nucleotide and amino acid sequence within the ancient conserve domain ( acd ) be highly conserve in many different taxonomic specie .
particularly , acdp protein show very strong aa homology to the bacteria corc protein ( 35 % aa identity with 55 % homology ) , which be involve in magnesium and cobalt efflux .
the acdp gene be widely express in all tissue test except for acdp1 , which be only highly express in the brain with low level of expression in kidney and testis .
immunostaining of acdp1 in hippocampus neuron reveal a predominant localization on the plasma membrane .
conclusion
the acdp gene be evolutionarily conserve in diverse specie and ubiquitously express throughout development and adult tissue suggest that acdp may be an essential gene .
acdp show strong homology to bacteria corc protein and predominantly localize on the plasma membrane .
these result suggest that acdp be probably a family of protein involve in ion transport in mammalian cell
background
we have recently clone and characterize a novel gene family name ancient conserve domain protein ( acdp ) which encode four protein member in human [ 1 ] .
we find that this gene family be evolutionarily conserved in diverse specie range from bacteria , yeast , c. elegans , and d. melanogaster to mammal .
the sequence conservation and the presence of multiple member within a specie may imply functional importance associate with the gene .
to facilitate the functional analysis of the acdp gene family , we clone and characterize acdp , the mouse homologue of the human acdp gene family .
result
molecular cloning of the acdp gene family
to clone the mouse acdp gene , the human acdp cdna and predicted protein sequence be use to search the mouse est database with the blastn and tblastn program .
mouse est marker correspond to each acdp member be then identify .
for example , est h3086h12 - 5 correspond to acdp1 , w98010 for acdp2 , 603299135f1 for acdp3 and bg083791 for acdp4 .
a modify oligo - dt with a m13 tail be use for the rt reaction .
a forward primer from each est marker and the m13 primer ( olig - dt tail ) be use to amplify the 3 ' utr sequence for each correspond acdp gene from the rt product .
to obtain 5 ' - end cod sequence for the acdp gene , we conduct a series nest pcr with combination of mouse and human primer .
the 5 ' utr sequence be identify by directly sequence bac dna contain the correspond acdp gene .
the bac clone be identify by screen a citb mouse bac dna library ( research genetics ) .
the 5 ' utr sequence obtain from above be far confirm by rt - pcr .
the acdp1 gene contain 3,631 bp of nucleotide sequence and encode a predict protein with 951 amino acid ( aa ) .
the other three acdp gene ( acdp2 , 3 and 4 ) contain 3,244 bp , 2,684 bp and 2,743 bp of cdna sequence , and encode deduce protein of 874 amino acid , 713 amino acid and 771 amino acid , respectively .
tissue distribution
northern blot analysis of the acdp gene family be carry out use membrane purchase from origene .
a total of 12 mouse tissue be include in the study ( fig. 1 ) .
due to sequence homology between each acdp member within the conserve domain , probe for northern bolt be pcr fragment from the last exon and the 3 ' untranslated region sequence .
the mouse acdp message show almost the same tissue distribution a the human acdp gene .
acdp1 message be highly express in the brain , while kidney and testis also show low level of expression .
acdp2 show high expression in the brain , kidney and liver .
however , the acdp2 transcript be not present in the skeleton muscle and skin , and it show very low level of expression in the rest of tissue .
acdp3 and acdp4 show different level of expression in all tissue test ; the high expression for acdp3 be observe in the brain , kidney , liver and heart , and the high expression for acdp4 be observe in the kidney , small intestine and testis .
the expression level for acdp3 and 4 in skeleton muscle be barely detectable ; however , β - actin show normal expression suggest that the result be not a consequence of bad rna quality ( data not show ) .
the ubiquitous expression pattern may be take a another indication of the functional importance of acdp protein in fundamental biological process in addition to the sequence conservation in evolutionarily divergent specie .
figure 1
northern blot analysis of the acdp gene family .
s. muscle represent skeletal muscle , sm .
int. represent small intestine .
multiple choice northern blot filter be purchase from origene .
chromosomal location
radiation hybrid mapping indicate that the acdp1 gene map to chromosome 19 between marker d19mit119 ( 34.3 cr proximal ) and d19mit112 ( 13.6 cr distal ) .
the acdp2 gene map slightly more distal to the acdp1 on chromosome 19 between d19mit9 ( 2.4 cr proximal ) and d19mit38 ( 15.1 cr distal ) .
the acdp3 and acdp4 gene map to chromosome 1 within one bac clone ( rp23 - 294i17 ) , proximal to marker d1mit171 ( 17.4 cr ) .
these region be syntenic to the human counterpart .
sequence homology and molecular characteristic
the mouse acdp gene show very strong homology of both nucleotide and aa sequence to the human acdp gene ( table 1 ) .
the high homology be observe between the human acdp2 and the mouse acdp2 gene ( 91 % of nucleotide identity , 97 % of aa identity and 99.4 % of aa homology ) .
in addition , the 5 ' utr nucleotide sequence ( 20 bp of nucleotide before start codon ) also show high homology to the human homologs , for example , the acdp2 5 ' utr sequence show 95 % identity to it human homolog .
however , the homology in the 3 ' utr sequence ( 20 bp of nucleotide after stop codon ) be much low ( 40 – 55 % ) for all acdp gene except acdp4 ( 90 % identity to it human homolog ) .
the ancient conserve domain ( acd ) have 55.3 % of aa identity and 83.3 % of homology between all mouse and human acdp protein ( fig. 2 ) .
the acd domain be evolutionarily conserve in divergent specie range from bacteria , yeast , c. elegans , d. melanogaster , mouse to human ( fig. 3 ) .
particularly , a show in fig. 3 , acdp protein show very strong aa homology to bacteria corc protein ( 35 % aa identity with 55 % homology ) , which be involve in magnesium and cobalt efflux [ 7 ] .
high aa homology be also observe between the acdp protein and the yeast amip3 protein ( 35 % aa identity with 56 % homology ) .
the amip3 be likely to be a homologous to the bacteria corc protein .
the amip3 mutant confer resistance to copper toxicity ( personal communication with dr. v.c. culotte , john hopkins bloomberg , school of public health ) .
the evolutionary relationship among those protein be illustrate by a phylogenetic tree construct base on the aa homology of protein ( fig. 4 ) .
table 1
nucleotide and amino acid homology ( % ) between human acdp and mouse acdp member .
figure 2
amino acid sequence homology alignment for all of the acdp and acdp gene within the acd domain .
the sequence data for the acdp gene have be deposit in genbank under accession number af202994 ( acdp1 ) , af216961 ( acdp2 ) , af216964 ( acdp3 ) and af216963 ( acdp4 ) .
identical amino acid or amino acid with very strong homology among all protein be shade black .
identical amino acid or amino acid with very strong homology in most of the protein be shade grey .
dot line represent gap for the alignment .
figure 3
amino acid sequence alignment show the conservation of acd domain in various specie .
amip3 be a protein from saccharomyces cerevisiae ( np_014581 ) .
cang be a protein from candida glabrata ( aaf33142 ) .
neuc ( eaa31204 ) be a hypothetical protein from neurospora crassa .
drom be a gene product from d. melanogaster .
the accession number for this gene be cg40084 in bdgp ( berkeley drosophila genome project ) .
anog represent a protein from the anopheles gambiae str. ( eaa01004 ) .
caee ( aak77203 ) be a hypothetical protein from the caenohabditis elegans .
corc represent bacteria magnesium and cobalt efflux protein from the shewanella oneidensis .
xyfd be a hypothetical protein from the xylella fastidiosa dixon ( zp_00038107 ) .
figure 4
phylogenetic tree show relationship among protein contain the acd domain from figure 2 and 3 .
the phylogenetic tree be construct accord to the calculation of the best match for the selected sequence .
abbreviation for each protein be the same a present in figure 3 .
we find that all mouse acdp member contain four distinct transmembrane domain ( fig. 5 ) , two cbs domain and a duf21 domain that be find in bacteria corc and yeast amip3 protein .
cbs domain be small intracellular module that be mostly find in 2 or four copy within a protein .
pair of cbs domain dimerise to form a stable globular domain [ 8 ] .
duf21 ( cd : pfam01959.9 ) be a newly define domain with unknown function .
this domain be a transmembrane region and find to be locate in the n - terminus of the protein adjacent to two intracellular cbs domain .
a cnmp - bind domain ( cyclic nucleotide - monophosphate - bind domain ) be find in all acdp member .
figure 5
four transmembrane domain within acdp4 protein .
transmembrane domain be predict by the tmhmm program .
the plot show the posterior probability of inside / outside / tm helix .
at the top of the plot ( between 1 and 1.2 ) the n - best prediction be show .
the plot be obtain by calculate the total probability that a residue sit in helix , inside , or outside sum over all possible path through the model .
in addition , acdp1 contain an alanine - rich region ( 2 – 10 : aaaaaaaaa ) , a leucine - rich region ( 204 – 257 : llrvrprlygpggdllppawlralgallllalsalf sglrlsllsldpvelrvl ) , a proline - rich region ( 78 – 130 : pgppvpaapvpapsla pgengtgdwaprlvfieeppgaggaapsavptrppgp ) , and two amidation site ( 917 – 920 : mgkk ; 926 – 929 : sgrk ) .
acdp2 have a glycine - rich region ( 201 – 222 : gaggsgsasgtvggkggagvag ) .
acdp3 possess a large alanine - rich region ( 2 – 261 ) and a large leucine - rich region ( 201 – 299 ) .
acdp4 contain a leucine zipper pattern ( 185 – 206 : lvmvllvlsgifsglnlglmal ) and an amidation site ( 7 – 10 : ggrr ) .
antibody production , western result and subcellular localization
peptide from acdp1 n - ( tsfllrvyfqpgppataapvpspt ) and c - ( tqqltlspaavptr ) terminus , conserved peptide from acd domain of acdp1 ( hnivdilfvkdlafvdpddctplltvtrf ) be commercially synthesize ( sigma genosys ) .
these antigenic site be predict by software from sigma genosys and polyclonal antibody for each peptide be produce by immunize rabbit .
to test the specificity of the antibody , we conduct western - blot analysis of mouse brain tissue extract .
a show in fig. 6a , the antibody produce by c - terminal peptide specifically detect acdp1 ( lane 3 ) .
the antibody generate by n - terminal peptide recognize acdp4 in addition to acdp1 , although the reactivity to latter be significantly high ( fig. 6a , lane 2 ) .
a expect , the antibody produce by the conserve sequence peptide detect all acdp protein ( fig. 6a , lane 1 ) .
to far determine the specificity of the antibody against the acdp1 c - terminus , we analyze extract of hek293 , 3t3 and pc12 cell .
the result be show in fig. 6b .
apparently , this antibody detect a specific band of acdp1 in all cell lysates .
of note , show in fig. 6b be signal of 10 μg extract of hek293 cell lysates , 100 μg extract of 3t3 and pc12 cell lysates .
thus , the expression level of acdp1 in these cell type vary a lot , with the high expression in hek293 cell .
nevertheless , these immunoblot result support our analysis of brain tissue extract that the antibody against acdp1 c - terminus specifically recognize acdp - 1 .
the specificity of the acdp1 c - terminus antibody suggest the possibility of use it to localize acdp - 1 within cell .
since northern blot reveal almost exclusive expression of acdp1 in the brain , we examine it subcellular localization in hippocampus neuron isolate from mouse embryo .
the neuron be culture on glass coverslips coat with a confluent monolayer of mouse cortical astrocyte in dish .
immunostaining be use the acdp1 c - terminus specific antibody .
confocal imaging reveal that acdp1 be predominantly localize on the plasma membrane .
a series of section of a cell at the thickness of 0.5 micrometer clearly show membrane location of acdp1 - immunoreactivity ( fig. 7 ) , which be consistent with the observation of transmembrane domain within the acdp protein .
figure 6
fig. 6a : immunoblot analysis of acdp protein in brain tissue extract .
immunoblotting be carry out use a western blotting detection system ( ecl ) ( pierce ) .
lane 1 , probe with antibody generate by conserved peptide .
from top to bottom , each band correspond to acdp1 ( 115 kd ) , acdp2 ( 100 kd ) , acdp4 ( 90 kd ) and acdp3 ( 80 kd ) .
lane 2 and 3 , probe with the acdp1 antibody generate by n - terminal and c - terminal peptide , respectively .
fig. 6b : immunoblot analysis of acdp1 in hek293 , 3t3 and pc12 cell .
the blot be probe with the antibody against the c - terminus of acdp - 1 .
lane 1 , 10 μg of hek293 cell lysates .
lane 2 and 3 , 100 μg of 3t3 and pc12 cell lysates .
figure 7
subcellular localization of acdp1 in hippocampus neuron .
a series of confocal image from a culture neuron stain with an anti-acdp1 antibody .
the step of each imaging section be 0.5 μm , from the surface of the neuron ( 0 μm ) to the middle plan ( 4.5 μm ) .
discussion
although the exact function of the acdp gene family be not yet elucidate , several line of evidence suggest that acdp gene may play an important role in biological process .
first , these gene be evolutionarily conserve in many phylogenetically divergent specie ; second , multiple gene be present in a specie ; third , these gene be ubiquitously express throughout development and adult tissue ( unpublished data ) .
the cloning and characterization of the mouse acdp gene family be a very important step towards the elucidation of the function of this multigene family .
sequence homology analysis reveal that acdp protein share very strong aa homology to the bacteria corc protein and yeast amip3 protein .
cora , b , c and d belong to a protein family involve in both influx and efflux of magnesium and cobalt .
it have be show that cora mutant confer resistance to cobalt toxicity [ 9 ] .
amip3 appear to be a homologous to corc protein which be involve in efflux of magnesium and cobalt in bacteria .
amip3 mutant confer resistant to copper toxicity .
acdp protein also possess the domain that be find in bacteria corc and yeast amip3 protein , such a the cbs domain , duf21 domain and transmembrane domain .
in addition , a cnmp - bind domain be find in all acdp protein , which be usually present in ion channel and cnmp - dependent kinase [ 10 - 13 ] .
use antibody produce by acdp1 c - terminal peptide , we have show that acdp1 be predominantly localize on the plasma membrane in hippocampus neuron .
in our previous study , we find human acdp protein be predominantly localize in the nucleus in hela cell [ 1 ] .
the discrepancy for acdp localization in neuronal cell could be cause by non-specificity for previous antibody which be produce by the recombinant acd domain , or different cell use .
in current study , the acdp1 c - terminus antibody only recognize acdp1 in brain tissue extract as well a in hek293 , 3t3 and pc12 cell lysates , suggest the specificity of the antibody .
our observation suggest that acdp might be involve in ion transport in mammalian cell .
however , more detailed functional study be need to demonstrate the real function of these protein .
conclusion
our previous work have describe human acdp gene [ 1 ] .
the new information of the current work include : 1 ) . it be the first time to report the existence of multiple acdp gene in other mammal in addition to human , while acdp appear to be a single copy gene in low organism such a in c. elegans , yeast and bacteria .
we have also suggest the evolutionary relationship of acdp gene in different specie ( phylogenetic tree ) ; 2 ) . molecular cloning and characterization of murine acdp gene family be essential for study of this novel gene family in animal model , e.g. for generation of knockout or transgenic model ; 3 ) . we have demonstrate both dna and amino acid conservation between mouse and human for each acdp gene and the whole acdp gene family , which provide important information for the possibility of functional redundancy or overlap between acdp member ; 4 ) . we have generate antibody specific for acdp1 and all acdp protein .
the acdp1 c - terminus antibody appear to specifically recognize acdp1 .
use this antibody , we have demonstrate that acdp1 be predominantly localize on the plasma membrane in hippocampus neuron .
these result represent an important step towards the characterization of function for the acdp gene family .
method
cdna cloning
cdna cloning of the acdp gene family be perform base on human homologue sequence a previously report [ 2 ] .
briefly , the human acdp cdna and predict aa sequence be use to search the mouse est database for est marker correspond to each acdp member .
a forward primer within the human acdp 5 ' cdna coding region ( after start codon ) and a mouse reverse primer from the mouse est marker be use to amplify the homologue sequence from mouse cdna at very low anneal temperature ( 45 – 50 °c ) .
a nested pcr use an inside reverse primer from the mouse est sequence and the same human forward primer be then carry out to amplify the specific mouse gene from the first round pcr product at high anneal temperature ( 62 °c ) .
the expected pcr product be directly excise from agarose gel and sequence by an abi377 automatic sequencer .
the sequence be far confirm use a forward primer from newly identify sequence and a reverse primer from known sequence .
once most of the cod sequence be identify , partial sequence of exon 1 and the 5 ' utr sequence be obtain by bac dna sequencing .
northern blot analysis
multiple choice northern blot filter contain 12 different mouse tissue be purchase from origene .
the filter be probe for each acdp gene with a pcr fragment ( around 350 bp ) from last exon and the 3 ' untranslated region label with α - 32p dctp use the random primer extension system ( life technology ) .
hybridization be carry out overnight .
the filter be wash twice with wash buffer i ( 2 × ssc , 0.1 % sd ) at 42 °c for 15 - min , and then wash twice with washing buffer ii ( 0.25 × ssc , 0.1 % sd ) at 65 °c for 15 - min .
washed filter be expose to x-ray film for overnight or longer [ 3 , 4 ] .
antibody production and western blot analysis
peptide link to klh ( keyhole limpet hemacyanin ) from acdp1 n - and c - terminal and the conserve domain ( acd ) be use for generation of antibody specifically for acdp1 and all acdp member a report , respectively [ 5 ] .
western blot be carry out use ecl ( pierce ) a describe previously [ 1 ] .
the membrane be wash extensively after incubation with primary and secondary antibody and be then develop with x-ray film with optimal exposure time .
chromosome localization
the t31 mouse radiation hybrid panel from research genetics be use to map the chromosome location of each acdp member .
primer from 3 ' utr of each acdp member be use to amplify the 100 radiation hybrid clone represent the mouse genome .
the data be submit to the jackson laboratory mouse radiation hybrid database for analysis .
sequence analysis
sequence assembly be perform with program sequencher ( gene code corp ) .
protein and dna homology search be carry out with tblastn , tblastx , blastp and blastn program .
multiple sequence alignment be perform with genedoc and pairwise sequence alignment .
multiple program include bcm search launcher , profilescan , sequence motif search , expasy and 3dpssm be use for search sequence feature of known protein .
phylogenetic tree be construct by clustalw program ( version 1.81 ) use upgma ( unweighted pair group method use arithmetic average ) algorithm [ 14 ] .
neuronal cell preparation and immunostanining
hippocampal neuron culture be prepare a previously report [ 6 ] .
in brief , the hippocampus be dissect out from mouse embryo at 16 day in utero .
the tissue be then incubate for 20 min at 37 °c in mem ( minimum essential medium ) modify for suspension culture ( life technology ) plus 0.25 % trypsin ( life technology ) .
the dissociated hippocampal neuron be plat on glass coverslips coat with a confluent monolayer of mouse cortical astrocyte obtain a describe below .
the neuron be maintain at 37 °c in a humidified atmosphere with 5 % co2 .
cortical astrocyte dissociate from newborn mouse cortex be grow in culture flask at 37 °c in a humidified atmosphere with 5 % co2 until confluent .
the cell be expose to 10 - 5 m cytosine arabinoside ( sigma ) and culture for additional 12 – 24 hr at 37 °c .
after remove of the medium with cellular debris , the cell be use for coat coverslips .
for immunostaining , neuronal cell on the coverslips be first fix in pb contain 4 % paraformaldehyde ( pfa ) for 12 hr at 4 °c and then incubate in a solution contain 4 % pfa and 0.4 % triton x - 100 at 4 °c for 1 hr .
after wash with pb three time , the cell be incubate with a block solution contain 1 : 30 normal goat serum , and subsequently incubate with a rabbit polyclonal anti-acdp antibody ( 1 : 3000 ) overnight at 4 °c .
after extensive washing with 1 % goat serum pb solution , the cell be incubate with an alex 488 conjugated secondary antibody ( 1 : 100 in 1 % goat serum pb solution , molecular probe ) for 3 hr at room temperature .
following final wash with 1 % goat serum pb solution , the neuronal cell on the coverslips be cover - slip with a glycerol - base anti-photobleach medium .
the cell be view under a confocal microscope ( carl zeiss ) .
image be capture with a ccd camera and acquire by the scion image software ( scion corporation , frederick , md ) .
gene bank accession number
the cdna sequence for the acdp gene family have already be deposit in gene bank with accession number af202994 ( acdp1 ) , af216961 ( acdp2 ) , af216964 ( acdp3 ) and af216963 ( acdp4 ) .
author ' contribution
this study be design by cyw and jxs .
the study be perform a follow : cyw , py , jds and ha contribute to the molecular cloning part of the manuscript .
cyw and sp be responsible for the acdp antibody production .
jgg and jlg do immunostaining for acdp1 localization in neuronal cell .
cyw , dg and zd carry out the western analysis .
acknowledgement
this work be partly support by a cigp grant to c.y.w .
diabetes insipidus in mouse with a mutation in aquaporin - 2
abstract
congenital nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ( ndi ) be a disease characterize by failure of the kidney to concentrate urine in response to vasopressin .
human kindred with nephrogenic diabetes insipidus have be find to harbor mutation in the vasopressin receptor 2 ( avpr2 ) gene or the vasopressin - sensitive water channel aquaporin - 2 ( aqp2 ) gene .
development of a treatment be render difficult due to the lack of a viable animal model .
through forward genetic screening of ethylnitrosourea - mutagenized mouse , we report the identification and characterization of a mouse model of ndi , with an f204v mutation in the aqp2 gene .
unlike previously attempt murine model of ndi , our mouse survive to adulthood and more exactly recapitulate the human disorder .
previous in vitro experiment use renal cell line suggest recessive aqp2 mutation result in improper trafficking of the mutant water pore .
use these animal , we have directly prove this hypothesis of improper aqp2 translocation a the molecular defect in nephrogenic diabetes insipidus in the intact organism .
additionally , use a renal cell line we show that the mutate protein , aqp2 - f204v , be retain in the endoplasmic reticulum and that this abnormal localization can be rescue by wild - type protein .
this novel mouse model allow for further mechanistic study as well a testing of pharmacological and gene therapy for ndi .
synopsis
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ( ndi ) be a disease mark by excessive urination and thirst .
normally , the hypothalamus sense situation where water be limited and signal to the kidney to increase water reabsorption from urine .
the signaling molecule secrete by the hypothalamus be arginine vasopressin ( avp ) , which bind to a specific protein on the surface of kidney cell , avp receptor ( avpr2 ) .
avp bind to it receptor on kidney cell begin a series of biochemical event that ultimately result in the insertion of a protein , aquaporin 2 ( aqp2 ) , into the out surface of the kidney cell .
a it name suggest , aqp2 facilitate the reuptake of water from the urinary space into the cell , thus concentrate the urine and conserve water .
congenital ndi be cause by mutation in either the water channel , aqp2 , or in the receptor , avpr2 .
while these mutation have be study extensively in the lab , work in live animal have be very limited .
this report describe the first viable mouse model of ndi .
previous model have be attempt by target mutation , i.e. , gene know to be involve in the disease have be alter in the mouse , a so - call reverse genetic approach .
reverse genetic approach have so far fail to produce a viable mouse model of ndi .
here the author take a forward genetic approach in which gene be mutate at random and animal be screen for disease - like property .
as well a prove hypothesis that come from lab study , this model open the door to the testing of gene therapy or other therapy for treatment of ndi .
introduction
nephrogenic diabetes insipidus ( ndi ) be a disease characterize by excessive urination and thirst , despite normal production of the antidiuretic hormone arginine vasopressin ( avp ) [ 1 ] .
the inherit form be either x - link a a consequence of mutation of the avpr2 gene [ 2 ] , or autosomal due to mutation of the aqp2 gene [ 3 ] .
aquaporin - 2 ( aqp2 ) be a pore - form protein belong to a family of water channel [ 4 ] , and it be express in collect - duct principal cell in the kidney [ 5 ] .
generally these protein permit the passage of water through the plasma membrane ( pm ) of cell , several of which carry out this role specifically in the process of water reabsorption from urine in the kidney .
it have be establish that aquaporins , although functional a a monomer , tetramerize before their insertion into the plasma membrane [ 4 , 6 ] .
furthermore these protein can also be differentially target to distinct region of the pm ; for example , aqp2 be rout to the apical membrane of cell surround the collect duct , whereas other aquaporins ( aqp3 or 4 ) be insert into the basolateral face .
unlike all other family member , aqp2 be not constitutively insert into the plasma membrane .
under basal condition , the protein reside in subapical intracellular vesicle ; however , under condition require water retention aqp2 translocate to the apical membrane , permit water reabsorption [ 7 , 8 ] .
for this process to occur , avp bind it receptor , avpr2 , on the basolateral face of the collect duct cell , lead to a rise in intracellular camp , ultimately result in phosphorylation of aqp2 at serine 256 by camp - dependent protein kinase [ 9 ] and it redistribution to the plasma membrane .
the importance of aqp2 redistribution have be highlight by functional characterization of aqp2 mutation result in severe ndi in human [ 3 , 10 ] .
recessive aqp2 mutation be generally think to produce an abnormally localize and , in most instance , misfolded water pore that respond abnormally to an increase in camp [ 6 , 11 ] .
furthermore , dominant mutation have be describe and find to misroute both the mutant and the wild - type protein to the basolateral membrane [ 6 , 12 ] .
several mouse model of diabetes insipidus have be generate [ 13 – 17 ] .
in an attempt to recapitulate human ndi , mouse have be generate with mutation in aqp2 and avpr2 [ 15 , 18 ] .
yang and colleague create a mouse with a t126m knock - in mutation in the aqp2 gene .
unexpectedly , homozygous mutant mouse die within 6 d after birth .
interestingly , avpr2 - deficient male pup also die within the first week after birth .
together these model suggest that the mouse may be a highly sensitive organism with regard to water homeostasis , and be unable to survive with polyuria .
in a forward genetic screen , a mouse with an aqp2 mutation be identify .
the purpose of this study be to characterize this murine model of recessive nephrogenic di .
we now report a novel f204v mutation in the aqp2 gene .
this allele of aqp2 be find to cause the first mouse model of ndi to survive past the first week of life .
molecular analysis conclude that mutant aqp2 adopt a different subcellular localization in renal collect - duct cell , and be resistant to translocation induce by desmopressin , an agonist of avp .
in vitro study use the madin - darby canine kidney ( mdck ) cell line demonstrate an endoplasmic reticulum pattern for the mutant protein , and apparent resistance to translocation .
these data conclusively prove that autosomal recessive ndi be a consequence of improper aqp2 routing in the intact mammal .
result
in a forward genetic screen that use ethylnitrosourea ( enu ) to induce mutation in a founder animal whose offspring be then screen for abnormal whole body metabolism [ 19 , 20 ] , we find a family of mouse that urinate and drink excessively .
serum and urine analysis show that plasma glucose level be normal and there be no glucose in the urine ( unpublished data ) .
hence , this be an example of diabetes insipidus .
the disorder in these mouse segregate in a monogenic , autosomal recessive manner , make aqp2 a candidate gene .
sequencing of aqp2 coding region of affect mouse identify a thymine to guanine ( t to g ) transversion ( figure 1a ) , which be predict to lead to a valine for phenylalanine substitution at amino acid 204 of the protein ( f204v ) .
aqp2 be a six - transmembrane water channel , and f204 lie near the extracellular face of the sixth membrane span domain , a region rich in hydrophobic amino acid .
this and the other membrane - span domain be conserve among vertebrate specie .
the phenylalanine at position 204 be particularly well conserve ( figure 1b ) , not only among vertebrate aqp2 protein , but also among others member of this family .
aqp2f204v / f204v mouse have dramatically increase urine production , in some case produce an amount of urine in 24 h that exceed their body weight , compare to their heterozygous or wild - type littermates .
such loss of water would rapidly lead to dehydration be it not compensate by increase water intake .
indeed , mutant mouse also dramatically increase their water intake ( figure 1c ) compare to their heterozygous or wild - type littermates .
this phenotype — increase urinary output and water intake — show complete concordance with homozygosity of the f204v mutation in the 58 animal test .
diabetes insipidus can be define a an inability to concentrate urine where appropriate .
compare to wild - type or heterozygous littermates , aqp2f204v / f204v mouse produce very dilute urine ( figure 1d ) .
basal urine concentration in mutant mouse be about 161 mosm , compare to about 1,293 mosm in wild - type mouse ( p < 0.001 ) .
normally , urine concentration be under the control of the hypothalamus , which , in response to hypovolemia or hypernatremia [ 21 ] , secrete avp .
the synthetic avp analog , 1 - deamino - 8 - d - arginine vasopressin ( ddavp ; also call desmopressin ) , be a potent agonist of avpr2 .
when administer to wild - type mouse , ddavp lead to a dramatic increase in urine concentration , from 1,293 to 5,885 mosm ( 4.6-fold ; figure 1d ) .
with similar treatment , mutant mouse concentrate their urine to a less but still significant extent , from 161 to 470 mosm ( 2.9-fold ) , indicate that these animal be not only unable to concentrate their urine properly but be also defective in their response to ddavp .
the small response to ddavp indicate some residual activity of the mutant aqp2 channel , which must be sufficient to allow survival of the individual , in contrast to the t126m knock - in mouse [ 18 ] .
multiple heterozygous mating yield 101 animal , which appear at a ratio of 26 : 49 : 26 , near the expect mendelian wild type , heterozygote , and mutant frequency , respectively , indicate that there be no reduce viability associate with this mutation .
other than the increase urine production and water intake , there be no overt phenotype in mutant mouse , save distended kidney , which appear variably in adult animal ( figure 2a ) .
although not specifically measure , mutant mouse seem to have a normal lifespan .
the one animal that be follow live to 18 mo , typical for animal in our colony .
aqp2f204v / f204v mouse suffer from severe hydronephrosis ( figure 2a and 2b ) , presumably a a consequence of an inability to cope with the extreme polyuria .
we find distended kidney in all aqp2f204v / f204v mouse ; however , the degree of inflation be variable in affect mouse and worsen with age .
severe hydronephrosis have previously be observe in double aqp1 / aqp3 knock - out mouse [ 17 ] , and appear at 6 wk .
even at 4 wk , aqp2f204v / f204v mouse have hydronephrosis .
histologic section from aqp2f204v / f204v mouse demonstrate marked dilatation of the renal pelvis yet normal morphology of the ureter ( figure 2c and 2d ) .
in particular , the muscularis propria be neither hypertrophied nor thinned .
there be the normal festoon appearance of the urothelium , and this transitional epithelium be of normal thickness .
there be thinning of the kidney a measure from renal capsule to renal pelvis .
however , the morphologic feature of the glomerulus and proximal / distal tubule be unremarkable ( figure 2d ) .
a show previously [ 18 , 22 ] , immunoblotting reveal three different form of aqp2 , due to different degree and form of glycosylation ( figure 3a ) .
previous report have demonstrate that nonglycosylated protein appear a a 29 kda band , while complex glycosylated protein run a a smear between 35 and 45 kda .
a short - lived intermediate form of 31 kda represent core , high - mannose glycosylation of aqp2 be apparent from pulse - chase labeling experiment [ 22 ] .
compare to that from the kidney of wild - type animal , aqp2 from mutant animal be reduce in both the high molecular weight , diffuse form and the low molecular weight form , but enrich in the intermediate molecular weight form ( figure 3a ) .
heterozygous animal show intermediate amount of all three form .
the nature of these glycosylated form be reveal by digestion with endoglycosidase h , which specifically cleave mannose - rich carbohydrate from the protein backbone .
treatment of endogenous aqp2 from kidney of wild - type , heterozygous , and mutant animal specifically affect the intermediate molecular weight form ( figure 3b ) .
the presence of some mature glycosylated protein ( 35 – 45 kda ) in aqp2f204v / f204v mouse presumably permit their survival compare to aqp2t126m / t126m mouse , and be consistent with a diminished response to ddavp .
in human , recessive allele of aqp2 be postulate to cause ndi because they do not properly translocate to the apical cell surface in response to avp .
this postulate come solely from in vitro study in which mutant aqp2 cdna correspond to human disease mutation be transfected into kidney cell line .
in general , such recessive allele , when visualize immunocytochemically , fail to localize to avp - responsive vesicle .
rather , they get trap in the endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) .
our mouse model of ndi afford the first opportunity to test this hypothesis in a mature animal .
a show in figure 4a ( top row of photomicrograph ) , aqp2 ( stain red ) normally localize to the subapical region of collect duct cell in kidney of wild - type mouse .
upon stimulation with ddavp , aqp2 translocate to or near the cell surface ( figure 4a , second row ) .
in kidney take from mutant animal , however , aqp2 be distribute randomly throughout the cell in the basal state ( figure 4a , third row ) , while aqp3 ( green ) appropriately localize to the basolateral surface [ 23 ] .
furthermore , upon ddavp stimulation , aqp2 - f204v fail to translocate to the cell surface ( figure 4a , bottom row ) .
to confirm these finding , the staining be repeat in kidney take from two further mouse for each class , wild - type or mutant , with or without ddavp treatment , with identical result .
to investigate the mechanism of defective translocation of aqp2 - f204v , we turn to transfection of mdck cell .
stable cell line express mouse wild - type aqp2 and aqp2 - f204v be establish .
immunoblots of protein extract from stable cell line show that mdck cell recapitulate the glycosylation defect see in mutant mouse ( unpublished data ) .
the wild - type protein be again present in three different form .
cell express aqp2 - f204v lack the 35 – 45 kda form and be enrich in the core - glycosylated 31 kda form .
in transfected , unstimulated mdck cell , wild - type aqp2 ( stain green ) appear in a punctate pattern distribute throughout the subapical region ( figure 4b , left column photomicrograph ) , consistent with vesicular compartmentalization .
aqp2 - f204v , on the other hand , appear in a punctate but perinuclear pattern ( figure 4b , third column ) .
upon stimulation with forskolin , a camp - dependent protein kinase activator , wild - type aqp2 translocate to the apical surface of polarize mdck cell ( figure 4b , second column ) .
along the z - axis , the perinuclear distribution of aqp2 - f204v be clearly see , and this distribution be not alter by forskolin ( figure 4b , bottom row , two right column ) .
the perinuclear distribution of aqp2 - f204v be consistent with an er compartmentalization .
to test the idea that aqp2 - f204v localize to the er , we co-stained cell transfected with aqp2f204v ( cdna ) for aqp2 and an er marker , calnexin ( figure 4c ) .
colocalization of calnexin with aqp2 be investigate directly , and it be find that 80 % of all aqp2 - f204v protein colocalized with calnexin .
the remain 20 % appear at the periphery of the er , represent aqp2 - f204v that have potentially progress beyond the er .
this “ er escape ” be consistent with the small proportion of mature , complex glycosylated , aqp2 - f204v in mutant kidney ( see figure 3a ) .
animal heterozygous for the aqp2f204v mutation be not affect in their urine production or urine osmolality ( see figure 1c and 1d ) .
it have also be show that a recessive ndi allele , aqp2 - r187c , do not interact with wild - type protein in oocyte [ 24 ] , nor do it homo-oligomerize in mdck cell [ 22 ] .
therefore , kidney from heterozygous animal be examine for evidence of two population of aqp2 protein .
surprisingly , immunohistochemical staining of kidney collect duct from aqp2f204v / + mouse reveal a pattern remarkably similar to wild type ( figure 5a ) .
aqp2 translocate completely to the apical cell surface upon ddavp stimulation .
this wild - type staining pattern may simply reflect the fact that decrease the amount of mutant protein by half make it undetectable by immunocytochemistry .
alternatively , the presence of wild - type protein may alter the localization of the mutant protein .
indeed , hendriks et al. propose a “ piggy - back ” mechanism to explain the transport of nonglycosylated subunit of aqp2 to the cell surface by glycosylated subunit [ 22 ] .
it have also be show that wild - type aqp2 protein can rescue a translocation - defective mutant protein , aqp2 - p262l , when the two be coexpressed in mdck cell [ 25 ] .
in the collect duct from aqp2f204v / + mouse , the wild type may rescue the mutant protein a suggest by the subcellular distribution of aqp2 protein .
to test this idea , we first look for an interaction between mutant and wild - type protein in transfected mdck cell ( figure 5b ) .
mdck cell stably express wild - type aqp2 be transiently transfected with gfp expression construct encode gfp - tag wild - type aqp2 , aqp2 - f204v , or gfp alone .
antibody against gfp coimmunoprecipitated wild - type aqp2 when aqp2 - gfp or aqp2 - f204v - gfp be transiently transfected , but not when gfp by itself be transiently transfected into mdck cell stably express wild - type aqp2 ( figure 5b , upper blot ) .
western blot of total membrane show that wild - type aqp2 be equivalently express in all three case ( figure 5b , low blot ) .
if wild - type and mutant protein be indeed interact in the cell , be this interaction sufficient to rescue the localization of mutant protein ?
to answer this question , we use mdck cell stably transfected with wild - type aqp2 express vector or with empty vector .
on top of these , we transiently transfected aqp2 - gfp or aqp2 - f204v - gfp expression construct .
aqp2 - gfp localize to the apical surface upon forskolin stimulation whether it be transiently transfected into vector - only cell ( figure 5c , upper left image ) or into wild - type aqp2 cell ( figure 5c , upper right ) .
aqp2 - f204v - gfp , when express by transient transfection into vector only cell , show a diffuse cytoplasmic distribution pattern ( figure 5c , low left ) .
when express in wild - type aqp2 cell , however , aqp2 - f204v - gfp localize to the apical surface to vary degree ( figure 5c , low right image [ i – iii ] ) .
the low right image of figure 5c show three cell from a single transfection .
the first be a nontransfected cell that show the localization of the stably express wild - type aqp2 , which be apical upon forskolin stimulation .
the next two show expression of both the stable wild - type aqp2 and the transient aqp2 - f204v - gfp .
in cell ( ii ) , localization of wild - type aqp2 be indistinguishable from aqp2 - f204v - gfp ; both be apical upon forskolin stimulation .
although the effect be subtle in cell ( iii ) , aqp2 - f204v - gfp be partly localize to the apical surface .
generally , the localization of aqp2 - f204v - gfp be clearly more apical when wild - type aqp2 be also express .
to confirm these result biochemically , we transfected the same cell line ( wild - type aqp2 or vector ) with f204v - gfp , biotinylated surface protein after forskolin stimulation , and precipitate the biotinylated protein ( figure 5d ) .
aqp2 - f204v - gfp be express approximately equally in both cell line ( figure 5d , total cell ) , but be biotinylated only when wild - type aqp2 be also express ( figure 5d , surface biotinylated ) .
since only cell surface protein be accessible to biotin , these result indicate that aqp2 - f204v be transport to the cell surface when wild - type aqp2 be present , but not on it own .
discussion
aqp2f204 / f204v mouse be viable and grow and reproduce normally .
they be , however , severely defective in their ability to concentrate urine , lead to increase urine output and water intake , thus make them the first mouse model of ndi to survive to maturity .
in human , ndi be cause by mutation in avpr2 or aqp2 .
knockout of the x - link avpr2 gene in mouse [ 15 ] give an ndi - like phenotype in male , hemizygous neonate , but the phenotype could not be assess in adult a the mouse die within 1 wk of birth .
the adult heterozygous female show a mild tendency toward increase urinary output and water intake and decrease urine osmolality .
knockout of the mouse aqp2 gene have not be report .
a knock - in of a human disease - cause mutation ( t126m ) , however , have be make [ 18 ] .
these mouse have a severe urine - concentrate defect result in dehydration and death within 1 wk of birth .
curiously , aqp2 - t126m do localize properly in at least a subset of cell .
the grossly abnormal collect duct morphology make it impossible to pinpoint the molecular defect in these knock - in mouse .
the t126m knock - in clearly show that aqp2 be an essential gene [ 18 ] .
the fact that our mouse survive show either that aqp2 - f204v possess some residual water transport ability or that there be avp - independent pathway for water reabsorption .
residual activity of aqp2 - f204v be likely , a mutant animal show some small response to ddavp , although ddavp - stimulate urine osmolality remain quite low .
immunostaining of kidney show that aqp2 - f204v do not efficiently transport water , because it fail to localize to the apical cell surface after ddavp treatment .
some residual activity of aqp2 would imply that some small , undetectable portion of the mutant protein be get to the cell surface .
the surface biotinylation experiment ( figure 5d ) suggest that no mutant protein get to the surface , but this do not necessarily reflect the situation in vivo .
while this small fraction of protein may not be detectable by immunofluorescence , western blotting show that some mutant protein do progress beyond the er ( 35 – 45 kda specie in figure 3a ) .
compare to wild - type , mutant protein be enrich in the high - mannose , core - glycosylated form ( 31 kda ) and deficient in nonglycosylated ( 29 kda ) and complex glycosylated ( 35 – 45 kda ) form .
the presence of a reduce but detectable amount of protein in the 35 – 45 kda range indicate that mutant protein be transport out of the er , but with greatly reduce efficiency .
colocalization of aqp2 - f204v with the er protein calnexin in transfected mdck cell show that , while most of the mutant protein be trap in the er , some do progress beyond the er .
diminish response to ddavp , diminish abundance of mature glycosylated protein in mutant animal , and the transport of a fraction of mutant protein beyond the er in mdck cell be all consistent with the notion that aqp2 - f204v misfolding be limited and that it may retain some residual water transport activity .
evidently this residual activity be sufficient for the viability and growth of mutant animal .
reduce efficiency in exit the er may explain why aqp2 - f204v be enrich in the 31 kda high - mannose glycosylated form .
the high - mannose core oligosaccharide be add in the er and be later modify and elaborate in the golgi apparatus [ 26 ] .
the increase in the high - mannose glycosylated form of aqp2 - f204v may simply reflect it prolonged presence in the er and exposure to oligosaccharyl transferase .
while improper localization of aqp2 explain the phenotype of homozygous mutant mouse , the complete lack of a phenotype in heterozygous mouse be more difficult to explain .
physiologically , heterozygous mouse have no symptom ( see figure 1c ) , and they be indistinguishable from wild type on immunostaining of kidney ( figure 5a ) .
the presence of 50 % of the normal amount of wild - type protein may explain the lack of symptom , but it can not explain the lack of any er - retain mutant protein .
rather , the phenotype of the aqp2f204v / + animal suggest that the mutant protein be be rescue by the wild - type protein .
indeed , de mattia et al. ( 26 ) have demonstrate that one recessive allele of aqp2 , p262l , do not properly translocate when express by itself in mdck cell , but that in the presence of wild - type protein , it localize normally .
the same mechanism seem to apply in vivo with aqp2f204v / + mouse .
in support of this , aqp2 - f204v can interact with wild - type aqp2 ( figure 5b ) , and when coexpressed with wild - type protein , aqp2 - f204v can reach the cell surface ( figure 5c bottom right panel and 5d ) .
although it have be demonstrate that a recessive allele ( encode aqp2 - r187c ) of ndi fail to interact with wild - type aqp2 [ 6 ] , here we show that aqp2 - f204v do interact with the wild - type protein , presumably a part of heterotetramers , and represent a rescuable allele , both in vitro and in vivo .
immunostaining the kidney of homozygous aqp2f204v / f204v mouse show that the mutant - express collect duct cell can not mediate water reabsorption , because it fail to insert into the apical plasma membrane in response to ddavp .
this be this first in vivo proof of a long - stand hypothesis that come from in vitro study with recessive aqp2 mutation .
transfection into mdck cell of any of several aqp2 mutation correspond to recessive human allele show abnormal subcellular localization [ 25 ] , [ 27 ] and failure to appropriately translocate to the plasma membrane .
thus , misfolding , retention in the er , and failure to translocate in response to ddavp be propose a the mechanism for autosomal recessive ndi .
here we not only prove this hypothesis but also establish a useful model for human ndi .
this mouse model of ndi base on an aqp2 allele that can be rescue provide the opportunity to test therapy , include gene therapy , that may promote proper subcellular localization .
material and method
generation of enu mouse and housing .
enu mutagenized c57bl / 6 mouse be generate a describe [ 19 ] .
mouse be maintain by backcross affect animal to c57bl / 6 and house in the genomics institute of the novartis research foundation specific pathogen free animal facility ( la jolla , california , united state ) .
all procedure be approve by the genomics institute of the novartis research foundation institutional animal care and use committee .
construct .
the complete coding sequence of mouse aqp2 from an image clone be digest from the pcmv⋅sport6 plasmid with ecori and noti and ligate into pcdna3.1 ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
the f204v mutation be introduce by site - directed mutagenesis ( stratagene , la jolla , california , united state ) , use the sense oligonucleotide 5 ′ - gatgatcactgggtcgtctggatcggacccc - 3 ′ , and antisense oligonucleotide 5 ′ - ggggtccgatccagacgacccagtgatcatc - 3 ′ .
to generate gfp fusion of aqp2 , the pcmv⋅sport6 aqp2 construct be use in a pcr reaction with the primer sp6 and 5 ′ - gactggatcccggccttgctgccgcgcggcag - 3 ′ to remove the stop codon of aqp2 .
the product be digest with kpni and bamhi and ligate into pegfp - n2 ( bd bioscience , san diego , california , united state ) .
the f204v mutation be introduce use the same mutagenic oligonucleotides .
cell culture and generation of stable cell line .
mdck cell ( ccl - 34 ; atcc , manassas , virginia , united state ) be culture in dmem ( sigma - aldrich , st. louis , missouri , united state ) supplement with 10 % fbs ( sigma - aldrich ) , 100 u / ml of penicillin , and 100 μg / ml of streptomycin at 37 °c in 5 % co2 .
to generate stable mdck cell line , cell be transfected use lipofectamine 2000 ( invitrogen ) and the pcdna3.1 expression construct ( contain wild - type aqp2 , aqp2 - f204v , or no insert ) and select with 900 μg / ml g418 ( sigma - aldrich ) .
individual colony be expand 14 d later .
for the duration of these experiment , the antibiotic be continually add to the medium .
transient gfp transfections be carry out in subconfluent stable cell line also use lipofectamine 2000 .
sequencing of aqp2 and genotyping of mouse .
all exon of aqp2 be amplify from mouse genomic dna and sequence .
for genotyping , exon 4 be amplify use the primer 5 ′ - tcagaacttgcccactagcc - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - tgtagaggagggaaccgatg - 3 ′ .
urine measurement .
total urine output be measure by separately house adult mouse in nalgene metabolic cage ( minimitter , bend , oregon , united state ) for 2 – 3 d and collect urine every 24 h period .
urine osmolalities be determine use an osmometer ( osmette 5004 ; precision system , natick , massachusetts , united state ) .
urine concentrate experiment be carry out by intraperitoneal injection of ddavp ( 0.4 μg / kg ) .
mouse be inject twice with ddavp , once at time 0 and again at 30 min .
urine be collect at the start of the experiment and 30 min after the second injection .
kidney membrane preparation .
whole mouse kidney be homogenize in 10 mm tris ( ph 7.4 ) , 350 mm sucrose , and 5 mm edta contain protease inhibitor ( sigma - aldrich , # p - 8340 ) in a potter - elvehjem homogenizer .
the homogenate be centrifuge at 2,000 g for 10 min and the supernatant be subject to ultracentrifugation at 100,000 g for 1 h at 4 °c .
pelleted membrane be resuspend in the same buffer , and protein concentration be determine by bradford assay .
immunoblotting .
kidney membrane fraction ( 60 μg ) be resolve on a 12 % sd - polyacrylamide gel and transfer to a nitrocellulose membrane .
membrane be block in 5 % nonfat milk in tris - buffer saline with 0.05 % tween 20 ( tbst ) , follow by an overnight incubation ( at 4 °c ) with aqp2 polyclonal antibody ( santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , california , united state ; # sc - 9882 ) .
membrane be wash in tbst then incubate with hrp - conjugate donkey anti-goat antibody .
membrane be wash far in tbst and band be visualize use ecl reagent ( amersham bioscience , little chalfont , united kingdom ) .
endoglycosidase digestion .
kidney membrane ( 60 μg ) be incubate in 50 mm sodium phosphate ( ph 5.5 ) , 0.1 % sd , and 50 mm β - mercaptoethanol , heat to 100 °c for 5 min , then cool .
endoglycosidase h ( 0.01 unit ; sigma - aldrich ) be add and incubate at 37 °c for 2 h .
the reaction be stop by boil the sample in laemmli buffer .
total reactant be immunoblotted a describe above .
coimmunoprecipitation and biotinylation in mdck cell .
mdck cell stably express wild - type aqp2 ( grow on 10 - cm plate ) be transfected with pegfp - wild - type aqp2 , pegfp - aqp2 - f204v , or vector alone .
the cell be homogenize in 10 mm tris ( ph 7.4 ) , 1 mm edta , and 250 mm sucrose 40 h later .
the clarify supernatant be centrifuge at 200,000 g for 30 min .
pelleted membrane be resuspend in the same buffer but contain 4 % sodium deoxycholate and incubate at 37 °c for 1 h .
from the dissolve membrane , a 30 μl sample be remove and use a the total membrane fraction .
the remain membrane be dilute with 600 μl of the homogenization buffer , and incubate with 1 μl of gfp antiserum ( invitrogen , # 46 – 0092 ) and protein a / g sepharose .
follow overnight incubation , the precipitate protein be wash in ripa buffer and finally boil in 50 μl of laemmli buffer .
half of the total membrane and the ip fraction be process for immunoblotting .
cell surface biotinylation be perform in a similar manner .
however , pegfp - aqp2 - f204v , be transfected into mdck cell stably express wild - type aqp2 and cell make stable with vector alone .
twenty - four hour post-transfection , cell be stimulate with forskolin , trypsinized , resuspend in 1 ml of pb ( 2.5 × 106 cell / ml ) , and incubate with 0.5 mg of nh - peo4 - biotin ( pierce biotechnology ) for 30 min at room temperature .
cell be wash once in 10 mm tris ( ph 8 ) and three time in pb , after which membrane be purify and solubilized a describe above .
solubilized membrane be incubate with 20 μl of immobilize streptavidin ( pierce biotechnology ) for 2 h at 4 °c .
finally the precipitate protein be wash in ripa buffer and boil in 50 μl of laemmli buffer .
total cell and the biotinylated precipitate be immunoblotting use an antibody to aqp2 .
kidney immunohistochemistry .
whole mouse kidney be fix in 10 % phosphate - buffer formalin for 24 h .
kidney be embed in paraffin , and 5 - μm section be prepare .
follow antigen retrieval use 10 mm sodium citrate ( ph 8 ) for 10 min at 98 °c , section be sequentially probe , first for aqp3 and then for aqp2 .
section be incubate in 5 % donkey serum and then in goat anti-aqp3 antibody ( 1 : 100 ; santa cruz biotechnology ; # sc - 9885 ) .
slide be wash with pb and incubate with alexafluor 488 - conjugate donkey anti-goat antibody ( molecular probe , eugene , oregon , united state ) .
the slide be subsequently block in 5 % chicken serum , incubate with a rabbit anti-aqp2 antibody ( 1 : 250 ; usb , cleveland , ohio , united state ; # a3000 – 06 ) , which be detect with a alexafluor 594 - conjugate chicken anti-rabbit antibody ( 1 : 500 ; molecular probe ) .
the section be stain with dapi and mount in vectashield ( vector lab , burlingame , california , united state ) .
immunocytochemistry on mdck cell .
mdck stable cell line express vector alone , wild - type aqp2 , or aqp2 - f204v ( and in some case transiently express a gfp construct ) be grow on fibronectin - coat coverslips until tight junction form .
cell be treat with or without 150 μm forskolin for 90 min , and fix in methanol at − 20 °c .
subsequently , cell be wash and permeabilized in 0.2 % triton x - 100 for 5 min , and sequentially probe for aqp2 and organelle marker for either the pm or the er .
aqp2 be detect use goat anti-aqp2 ( 1 : 100 ; santa cruz biotechnology ; # sc - 9882 ) and a 1 : 200 dilution of alexafluor 488 - conjugate donkey anti-goat secondary antibody .
the pm and er be probe use mouse anti-na+ / k+ - atpase ( upstate , waltham , massachusetts , united state ) or rabbit anti-calnexin ( stressgen biotechnology , victoria , british columbia , canada ) antibody and the secondary antibody , cy3 - conjugate goat anti-mouse ( 1 : 200 ; jackson immunoresearch , west grove , pennsylvania , united state ) or alexafluor 594 - conjugate chicken anti-rabbit ( 1 : 200 ) respectively .
cell be wash in pb , counterstained with dapi , and mount in vectashield .
in experiment in which gfp fusion be use , aqp2 be probe use the antibody combination use for kidney immunohistochemistry in order to detect the aqp2 at 594 nm , to distinguish between the gfp fusion protein .
confocal microscopy .
optical z - section image be collect on a biorad ( hercules , california , united state ) rainbow radiance 2100 laser scanning confocal microscope .
image stack be flatten , or section along the z - axis , then far process use biorad laser sharp 2000 software and image j software ( v. 1.32 ; national institute of health ) .
colocalization be perform use the overlay coefficient of image j software .
support information
accession number
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ ) accession number of aqp2 be nm_009699 .
the image ( http://image.llnl.gov ) accession number of aqp2 be 4222942 .
acknowledgement
we thank debby stradley for all genotyping , lacey kischassey for breeding and care of mouse , karina ayala and sandy bohan for phenotyping the study mouse , miah gilmore for perform endoglycosidase h experiment , james watson for section tissue , and dr. william kiossis for collect confocal image .
abbreviation
aqp [ number ] - aquaporin - [ number ]
avpr2 - avp type 2 receptor
avp - arginine vasopressin
ddavp - 1 - deamino - 8 - d - arginine vasopressin
er - endoplasmic reticulum
mdck - madin - darby canine kidney
ndi - nephrogenic diabetes insipidus
pm - plasma membrane
figure
figure 1
analysis of aqp2 sequence and phenotype in mutant mouse
( a ) chromatographic trace of aqp2 f204v mutation .
the box show the mutate codon , ttc ( phe ) to gtc ( val ) at position 204 .
wt , wild type ; mut , mutant .
( b ) amino acid conservation of mouse aqp2 ( residue 194 – 214 ) .
the box residue indicate phenylalanine at position 204 .
haqp2 , human aqp2 ; maqp1 , mouse aqp1 ; maqp2 , mouse aqp2 ; raqp2 , rat aqp2 ; xaqp2 , xenopus aqp2 .
( c ) urine production ( ml ) and water consumption ( ml ) of 58 f2 mouse over a 24 - h period ( both sex , age 10 – 22 wk ) .
mutant mouse ( black square ) exhibit overt polyuria and polydipsia compare to littermate wild - type ( white triangle ) and heterozygous ( grey circle ) mouse .
( d ) urine osmolality and concentrate ability in aqp2 mutant and their littermates ( 10 – 22 wk , both sex ) , before ( white bar ) and after ( black bar ) ddavp treatment .
wild type ( wt ; n = 12 ) ; heterozygote ( het ; n = 20 ) ; mutant ( mut ; n = 9 ) .
data represent average ± standard error of the mean , **p < 0.01 ; ***p < 0.001 .
figure 2
anatomy and histology of mouse kidney
( a ) gross anatomy of an affect mouse ( 8 - mo - old male ) .
this show the enlargement and cystic dilatation of the renal pelvis .
there be thinning of the overlie renal parenchyma impart a translucent appearance to portion of the kidney and collecting system .
the bladder be also dilate .
( b ) left kidney from mutant mouse ( right ) show in ( a ) compare to a kidney from an age - sex match unaffected littermate ( left ) .
( c ) hematoxylin and eosin stain section of ureter from a mutant mouse , show normal histology despite bloat of the kidney .
( d ) hematoxylin and eosin stain histologic section of a kidney from a 4 - wk - old female mutant mouse .
the mutant kidney show marked dilatation of the renal pelvis with blunting of the papilla .
there be preservation of the cortex and medulla .
figure 3
immunoblot analysis of aqp2 from mouse kidney
( a ) western blot analysis of total kidney membrane from littermate mouse .
an intermediate form of aqp2 at 31 kda be identify in kidney membrane from a mutant mouse ( mut ) and partially in a heterozygous mouse ( het ) .
( b ) total kidney membrane be subject to endoglycosidase h treatment ( endo h ) prior to western blotting .
high - mannose ( h.m. ) glycosylated protein that have not exit the er be sensitive to endoglycosidase h digestion .
figure 4
aqp2 subcellular localization and translocation in mouse kidney collecting duct and mdck cell line
( a ) immunohistochemistry on collect duct in kidney section from an aqp2 - f204v mutant ( mut ) mouse and an age - sex match wild - type ( wt ) littermate .
mouse be inject intraperitoneally with pb ( nt ) or ddavp before sacrificing and fixation of the kidney .
kidney section be immunostained for aqp2 ( red ) and the basolateral marker aqp3 ( green ) .
the image be merge and an area of the cytoplasm be magnify ( zoom ) .
note that mutant aqp2 be not properly localize to the subapical compartment , nor do it respond to ddavp .
( b ) mdck cell line , stably transfected with construct encode mouse wt or aqp2 - f204v , be treat with and without 150 μm forskolin for 90 min , after which cell be fix , permeabilized , and subject to immunocytochemistry .
aqp2 be show in green , and the basolateral marker na+ / k+ - atpase be show in red , alongside the nuclear stain dapi .
the z - profile image be reconstruct from multiple z - section , along the dotted line .
mutant aqp2 fail to localize to the cell surface upon forskolin stimulation .
rather , the perinuclear staining be consistent with an er localization of mutant aqp2 .
( c ) the mdck cell line express aqp2 - f204v be grow on fibronectin - coat coverslips until tight junction form , at which point the cell be treat with 150 μm forskolin for 90 min .
cell be fix , permeabilized , and sequentially immunoblotted for aqp2 ( green ) and calnexin ( red ) , an er marker .
the merge image show that aqp2 - f204v colocalizes with the endoplasmic reticulum marker .
scale bar refer to 10 μm .
figure 5
aqp2 - f204v rescue in heterozygous mouse collecting duct and in cotransfected mdck cell
( a ) in heterozygous animal , aqp2 localize and respond to ddavp normally .
immunohistochemistry be carry out on kidney section from an aqp2f204v / + mouse , after injection with ddavp .
kidney section be sequentially immunostained for aqp2 ( red ) and the basolateral marker aqp3 ( green ) .
( b ) mutant and wild - type aqp2 physically interact .
mdck cell stably express wild - type aqp2 be transiently transfected with gfp tag wild - type aqp2 , aqp2 - f204v , or gfp alone .
solubilized membrane be immunoprecipitated with a gfp antibody .
total membrane and immunoprecipitates ( gfp - ip ) be western blot use an antibody against aqp2 ( arrow ) or aqp2 - gfp fusion ( arrowhead ) .
( c ) wild - type aqp2 rescue the localization defect of mutant aqp2 .
gfp fusion of either wild - type aqp2 ( wt - gfp , top photomicrograph ) or f204v aqp2 ( f204v - gfp , bottom photomicrograph ) be express in polarize mdck stable cell line express vector alone ( vector , left photomicrograph ) or aqp2 - wt ( right photomicrograph ) .
cell be stimulate with forskolin , process for immunocytochemistry , and use to generate z - sectional image .
( d ) mutant aqp2 be present at the cell surface in cell coexpressing wild - type aqp2 ( aqp2 - wt ) .
gfp fuse to aqp2 - f204v be express in mdck cell express wild - type aqp2 or vector alone .
cell be stimulate with forskolin , and cell surface biotinylated protein be precipitate then analyze for the presence of wild - type aqp2 ( arrow ) and aqp2 - f204v ( arrowhead ) by western blot .
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
djl and ng conceive and design the experiment .
djl perform the experiment .
djl , fwh , and ng analyze the data .
djl and lmt contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
djl and ng write the paper .
citation : lloyd dj , hall fw , tarantino lm , gekakis n ( 2005 ) diabetes insipidus in mouse with a mutation in aquaporin - 2 .
plo genet 1 ( 2 ) : e20 .
odorant receptor express sequence tag demonstrate olfactory expression of over 400 gene , extensive alternate splicing and unequal expression level
previous computational analysis have identify approximately 1,500 mouse olfactory receptor , but experimental evidence confirm olfactory function be available for very few receptor .
a mouse olfactory epithelium cdna library be screen to obtain olfactory receptor express sequence tag , provide evidence of olfactory function for many additional olfactory receptor , as well a identify gene structure and putative promoter region .
abstract
background
the olfactory receptor gene family be one of the large in the mammalian genome .
previous computational analysis have identify approximately 1,500 mouse olfactory receptor , but experimental evidence confirm olfactory function be available for very few olfactory receptor .
we therefore screen a mouse olfactory epithelium cdna library to obtain olfactory receptor express sequence tag , provide evidence of olfactory function for many additional olfactory receptor , as well a identify gene structure and putative promoter region .
result
we identify more than 1,200 odorant receptor cdna represent more than 400 gene .
use real - time pcr to confirm expression level difference suggest by our screen , we find that transcript level in the olfactory epithelium can differ between olfactory receptor by up to 300-fold .
difference for one gene pair be apparently due to both unequal number of express cell and unequal transcript level per express cell .
at least two - third of olfactory receptor exhibit multiple transcriptional variant , with alternative isoforms of both 5 ' and 3 ' untranslated region .
some transcript ( 5 % ) utilize splice site within the cod region , contrary to the stereotype olfactory receptor gene structure .
most atypical transcript encode nonfunctional olfactory receptor , but can occasionally increase receptor diversity .
conclusion
our cdna collection confirm olfactory function of over one - third of the intact mouse olfactory receptor .
most of these gene be previously annotate a olfactory receptor base solely on sequence similarity .
our finding that different olfactory receptor have different expression level be intriguing give the one - neuron , one - gene expression regime of olfactory receptor .
we provide 5 ' untranslated region sequence and candidate promoter region for more than 300 olfactory receptor , valuable resource for computational regulatory motif search and for design olfactory receptor microarrays and other experimental probe .
background
the interaction of olfactory ( or odorant ) receptor with their odorant ligand be the first step in a signal transduction pathway that result in the perception of smell .
the olfactory receptor gene family be one of the large in the mammalian genome , comprise about 1,500 member in the mouse genome [ 1 , 2 ] .
olfactory receptor be originally identify in an elegant experiment base on the hypothesis that they would be seven - transmembrane - domain protein encode by a large , diverse gene family whose expression be restrict to the olfactory epithelium [ 3 ] .
subsequent study have show that some of these receptor do indeed respond to odorants and can confer that responsivity when express in heterologous cell type ( for example [ 4 ] ) .
recent computational investigation have provide the almost complete human [ 5 , 6 ] and mouse [ 1 , 2 ] olfactory receptor - gene catalog .
however , the assignment of most of these gene a olfactory receptor be base solely on similarity to one of a relatively small number of experimentally confirm mouse olfactory receptor or , worse , on similarity to a gene that in turn be define a an olfactory receptor solely by similarity .
while similarity - base genome annotation be a good initial method to identify gene and predict their function , in some case it can be misleading , a gene of similar sequence can carry out different function and be express in different tissue ( for example , the sugar transporter gene family [ 7 ] ) .
a small subset of olfactory receptor appear to be express in non-olfactory tissue , principally the testis [ 8 ] , but also taste tissue [ 9 ] , prostate [ 10 ] , erythroid cell [ 11 ] , notochord [ 12 ] and perhaps other tissue .
expression in the testis have lead some investigator to suggest that a subset of olfactory receptor may function a spermatid chemoreceptor [ 8 ] .
recent study of one human testis - express olfactory receptor indicate that it do indeed function in sperm chemotaxis [ 13 ] .
due to the paucity of experimental evidence of the olfactory function of most gene in the family and suggestion of extra-olfactory role , we embark on an olfactory receptor express sequence tag ( est ) project to confirm olfactory epithelial expression of hundred of mouse odorant receptor gene .
within the olfactory epithelium , individual olfactory receptor gene show an intriguing expression pattern .
each olfactory receptor be express in a subset of cell in one of four zone of the epithelium [ 14 , 15 ] .
furthermore , each olfactory neuron express only one allele [ 16 ] of a single olfactory receptor gene [ 17 , 18 ] , and the remaining approximately 1,499 gene be transcriptionally inactive .
while the mechanism ensure singular expression be unknown , many hypothesis have be propose [ 14 , 16 , 19 ] .
in one model , somatic dna recombination would bring one olfactory receptor gene into a transcriptionally active genomic configuration , a observe for the yeast mating type locus [ 20 ] and the mammalian immunoglobulin gene [ 21 ] .
alternatively , a second model invoke a combinatorial code of transcription factor binding site unique to each gene .
this be unlikely , however , a even olfactory receptor transgene with identical upstream region be express in different neuron [ 18 ] .
in a third model , there would be a limit quantity of transcription factor - the cell might contain a single transcriptional ' machine ' that be capable of accommodate the promoter of only one olfactory receptor gene , similar to the expression site body use by african trypanosomes to ensure singular expression of only one set of variant surface glycoprotein gene [ 22 ] .
finally , in a fourth model , transcriptional activity at one stochastically choose olfactory receptor allele might send negative feedback to repress activity of all other olfactory receptor and / or positive feedback to enhance it own expression .
in the latter three model , some or all olfactory receptor gene might share transcription factor binding motif , and in the first model , olfactory receptor gene might share a common recombination signal .
in order to perform computational and experimental search for such signal , it be important to have a good idea of the transcriptional start site of a large number of olfactory receptor gene .
our olfactory receptor est collection provide 5 ' untranslated region ( utr ) sequence for many gene and , therefore , a large dataset of candidate promoter region .
olfactory receptor gene have an intronless cod region , simplify both computational and experimental olfactory receptor identification .
for a small number of olfactory receptor , gene structure have be determine .
additional 5 ' untranslated exon lie upstream of the cod region and can be alternatively splice [ 19 , 23 - 26 ] .
the 3 ' untranslated region be typically intronless .
exception to this stereotyped structure have be describe for some human olfactory receptor , but be think to be rare [ 25 - 27 ] .
cdna identification and race data have be use to determine gene structure for about 30 gene , see , for example , [ 19 , 23 ] .
however , computational prediction of the location of 5 ' upstream exon and the extent of the 3 ' utr from genomic sequence have be extremely difficult .
a combination of splice site prediction and similarity to other olfactory receptor have allow some investigator to predict 5 ' exon location for around 15 gene [ 25 , 28 ] .
experimental validation show that some , but not all , prediction be accurate [ 24 , 25 ] .
the total number of olfactory receptor for which gene structure be know be vastly increase by our study .
in this report , we describe the isolation and analysis of over 1,200 cdna represent 419 odorant receptor gene .
we screen a mouse olfactory epithelium library with degenerate olfactory receptor probe and obtain 5 ' end sequence ( est ) from purify cdna .
these clone confirm olfactory expression of over 400 olfactory receptor , provide their gene structure , demonstrate that not all olfactory receptor be express at the same level and show that most olfactory receptor gene have multiple transcriptional isoforms .
result
at least 419 mouse olfactory receptor gene be express in the olfactory epithelium
we have isolate 1,264 olfactory receptor cdna clone , which together confirm the olfactory epithelial expression of 419 annotate olfactory receptor gene .
we use low - stringency hybridization with degenerate olfactory receptor dna probe to screen around 4,100,000 plaque - form unit ( pfu ) of an adult mouse olfactory epithelium cdna library and around 640,000 pfu of an embryonic olfactory epithelium library .
we obtain sequence from 1,715 hybridization - positive cdna follow secondary screen to isolate single clone .
of these clone , 1,264 yield olfactory receptor - contain sequence .
the 26 % false - positive rate be a consequence of use low - stringency hybridization to obtain maximal sensitivity .
continue the screen would have result in cdna from additional olfactory receptor , but we reach a point of limit return : our final batch of 45 olfactory receptor - positive sequence represent 33 different olfactory receptor , of which only four have not be encounter previously in our screen .
sequence analysis show that the library be of high quality .
firstly , directional cloning be successful : only eight out of 1,430 cdna sequence with any protein homology match that protein on the reverse strand .
secondly , genomic contamination be rare : when the 83 olfactory receptor - contain sequence that have a 5 ' utr of 400 bp or long be align to genomic sequence , 80 splice across at least one intron , leave a maximum of three clone ( 3.6 % ) that potentially represent genomic contamination of the library .
thirdly , most clone be of a reasonable length : although we do not determine whether clone be full - length , 881 of 1,264 ( 70 % ) olfactory receptor cdna contain the gene 's start codon and at least some 5 ' utr sequence .
in order to match cdna to their genomic counterpart , first we update our catalog of mouse olfactory receptor gene [ 1 ] base on celera 's most recent genome assembly ( release 13 ) [ 29 ] .
previous report of the mouse olfactory receptor repertoire [ 1 , 2 ] be base on the release 12 assembly .
release 13 consist of few , long scaffold sequence contain few , small gap than release 12 .
use the blast - base method detail previously [ 1 ] , we identify 1,490 olfactory receptor sequence in the new assembly , include 1,107 intact olfactory receptor gene ( compare to 866 intact olfactory receptor in the old assembly ) reflect the reduce sequence error rate and increase coverage of the new assembly ( table 1 ) .
we create a local database of genomic sequence include all olfactory receptor locus and 0.5 mb flanking sequence ( if available ) and compare each cdna sequence to this ' olfactory subgenome ' database use sim4 [ 30 ] .
cdna be assign to individual gene base on their best match to an olfactory receptor coding region or it upstream region ( see material and method ) .
of the 1,264 olfactory receptor cdna , 1,176 match a total of 419 olfactory receptor gene ; the remain cdna either match an olfactory receptor below our 96 % nucleotide identity threshold or have ambiguous match encompass more than one olfactory receptor gene region ( see below ) .
a class i olfactory receptor degenerate primer broaden phylogenetic distribution of confirm olfactory receptor gene
previous analysis of the mammalian olfactory receptor family define two major phylogenetic clade , refer to a class i and ii olfactory receptor , and suggest that class i olfactory receptor be more similar to fish olfactory receptor than be class ii [ 5 ] .
figure 1 illustrate the phylogenetic diversity of our cdna collection , show that we have confirm expression of at least one olfactory receptor gene in each major clade of the class ii olfactory receptor gene , or 391 out of 983 ( 40 % ) of all intact class ii olfactory receptor gene where full - length genomic sequence data be available ( blue branch ) .
the screen thus appear relatively unbiased in it coverage of class ii olfactory receptor .
however , our random screen provide cdna for only two out of 124 intact , full - length class i olfactory receptor .
in an attempt to broaden the phylogenetic coverage of our hybridization screen , we use additional degenerate probe on the adult library and screen an embryonic library ( table 2 ) .
these experiment do not increase the diversity of clone identify ( not show ) .
this severe class i underrepresentation could be due to experimental bias - a consequence of use degenerate primer to create our hybridization probe .
alternatively , class i gene might be express at extremely low level in the olfactory epithelium .
in order to determine whether class i olfactory receptor be express in the olfactory epithelium , we design a reverse - strand degenerate primer to recognize a motif in transmembrane domain 7 ( pp { v / m / a / t } { f / l / i / m } np ) enrich among class i olfactory receptor sequence .
most of the motif be share among all olfactory receptor , but the first proline residue ( at the primer 's 3 ' end ) be find in 121 out of 124 ( 98 % ) intact class i gene compare to only 37 out of 983 ( 4 % ) intact class ii gene .
when combine with another olfactory receptor degenerate primer , p26 [ 17 ] , this primer preferentially amplify class i olfactory receptor from mouse genomic dna : of 33 sequenced , cloned pcr product , 17 represent seven different class i olfactory receptor , six represent three different class ii olfactory receptor , and ten represent five different non-olfactory receptor contaminant .
degenerate pcr , cloning , and sequencing from reverse - transcribe olfactory epithelium rna show that at least seven class i olfactory receptor be express , as well a one additional class ii gene ( color red in figure 1 ) .
however , no product could be obtain from the adult or the fetal olfactory epithelium cdna library use the class i primer , suggest that the library contain very low level of class i olfactory receptor .
we also confirm expression of nine additional olfactory receptor ( three class i and six class ii , color red in figure 1 ) from subclades that be poorly represent in our cdna screen use gene - specific primer pair to amplify cdna library or reverse - transcribe rna template .
for two of the class i gene we have show to be express , we determine relative transcript level use quantitative rt - pcr ( see below ) .
expression level be similar to those observe for gene that be represent in our cdna collection , suggest that class i olfactory receptor be not under - represent in the olfactory epithelium , and that the dearth of class i cdna in our screen be likely to be due to bias in the library and / or hybridization probe .
some olfactory receptor gene be express at high level than others
our cdna screen suggest that some olfactory receptor gene be express at high level than others .
if all olfactory receptor gene be express at equal level , and our screen and library be unbiased in their coverage of the class ii olfactory receptor , the number of cdna detect per class ii olfactory receptor should follow a poisson distribution , calculate base on the assumption that all 983 intact class ii olfactory receptor have an equal chance of be represent in the screen , but that class i olfactory receptor and pseudogenes can not be find ( figure 2 ) .
we calculate a low probability ( approximately one in 28 ) that we would observe any gene with at least eight match cdna in the set of 1,176 cdna we assign to single olfactory receptor sequence .
however , for 17 olfactory receptor , we find ten or more matching cdna , suggest that they might be express at high level than other olfactory receptor gene ( figure 2 ) .
the two gene for which we find most cdna ( ay318726 / mor28 and ay318727 / mor10 ) be genomically adjacent and in the well - study olfactory receptor cluster next to the t - cell receptor α / δ locus [ 18 , 31 ] .
quantitative rt - pcr of six olfactory receptor confirm that expression level do indeed vary considerably between gene .
we use quantitative ( real - time ) pcr to measure olfactory epithelium transcript level of six olfactory receptor gene and the ribosomal s16 gene in three mouse of the same inbred strain ( figure 3 ) .
these gene include two olfactory receptor with more than 20 matching cdna , two with one or two matching cdna and two class i olfactory receptor with no matching cdna .
in these assay , we measure transcript level per genomic copy of the gene by compare how well a gene - specific primer pair amplify reverse - transcribe rna , relative to a standard curve of amplification of mouse genomic dna .
we find that expression level can vary by almost 300-fold between gene ( for example , gene a and d , figure 3 ) .
however , cdna number be not a good indicator of expression level , a discrepancy that be likely to be due to bias in the screen ( we use degenerate primer to make the probe , which will favor some gene over others ) and in the library ( oligo - dt priming will favor gene with short 3 ' utrs ) .
for example , we observe large expression difference in all three mouse between two gene for which similar number of cdna be find ( gene a and b , figure 3 ) , and conversely , similar expression level between two gene with a ten-fold difference in number of cdna find ( gene b and c , figure 3 ) .
expression level be mostly consistent between different mouse : we find similar expression - level difference between olfactory receptor gene in all three mouse examine ( that is , the rank order of the six gene be similar among the three mouse ) , although there be variation in expression level of some gene between mouse ( for example , gene e , figure 3 ) .
in situ hybridization ( figure 4 ) show that increase number of express cell account for some , but not all , of the difference in transcript level between two of the gene test by real - time pcr ( gene a and d in figure 3 ) .
we hybridize alternate coronal serial section span an entire olfactory epithelium of a young mouse ( p6 ) with probe for gene a and gene d .
southern blot and blast analysis show that both probe be likely to hybridize to their intend target gene and no others ( not show ) .
gene a be express in zone 4 of the epithelium accord to the nomenclature of sullivan et al. [ 32 ] ( figure 4a ) .
the expression pattern of gene d do not correspond to any of the four ' classical ' olfactory epithelial zone [ 14 , 15 , 32 ] : positive cell be find in region of endoturbinates ii and iii and ectoturbinate 3 , resemble the expression pattern see previously for the or37 subfamily and orz6 olfactory receptor [ 33 , 34 ] ( figure 4b ) .
count the total number of positive cell in alternate section across the entire epithelium , we find that gene a be express in 2,905 cell , about 12 time more cell than gene d , which be express in a total of 249 cell .
this 12-fold difference in number of express cell do not account for the almost 300-fold difference in rna level observe by real - time pcr , imply that the transcript level per express cell for gene a be about 25 time high than transcript level in each express cell for gene d .
we note that hybridization intensity per positive neuron appear strong for gene a than gene d after comparable exposure time , in accordance with the idea that transcript level be high per cell .
thus , we suggest that expression in more cell and in high level per cell together account for the almost 300-fold high olfactory epithelial rna level of gene a relative to gene d ( figure 3 ) .
most olfactory receptor gene have several transcriptional isoforms
our cdna collection reveal that at least two third of the olfactory receptor sample show alternative splicing of their 5 ' untranslated exon .
use a custom script to process sim4 alignment of cdna and genomic sequence , we find two to eight different splice form for 85 ( 45 % ) of the 191 gene for which we have have some opportunity to observe alternate splicing ( that is , a minimum of two cdna , at least one of which be splice ) , and 55 ( 67 % ) of the 82 gene for which we have four or more cdna ( and thus a high chance of observe any alternate splicing ) ( figure 5 ) .
these alternative splice event be almost all restrict to the 5 ' utr and include exon skipping and alternate splice - donor and - acceptor use .
at least half of the olfactory receptor represent in our cdna collection utilize more than one polyadenylation site , result in alternative 3 ' utr isoforms .
we have crudely estimate 3 ' utr size for 1,169 cdna clone by combine approximate insert size information with 5 ' sequence data .
more than one 3 ' utr isoform be predict for 43 of the 77 ( 56 % ) gene for which there be at least four cdna with 3 ' utr size information .
we confirm the alternative polyadenylation isoforms of four out of five select gene by sequence the 3 ' end of 14 cdna clone .
these 14 sequence also reveal one cdna where the poly ( a ) tail be add 27 bp before the stop codon , and another where an intron be splice out of the 3 ' utr , contrary to the conventional stereotype of olfactory receptor gene structure .
a subset of olfactory receptor show unusual splicing
we identify 62 cdna ( 5 % of all olfactory receptor clone ) from 38 intact olfactory receptor and one olfactory receptor pseudogene where a splice site within the protein - cod region be use .
for two gene ( top two cdna , figure 6 ) , the predict protein appear to be an intact olfactory receptor with three or ten amino acid , include the initiate methionine , contribute by an upstream exon .
a similar gene structure be describe previously for a human olfactory receptor [ 25 ] .
one of these two mouse gene have no start codon in it otherwise intact main cod exon .
the unusual splicing thus rescue what would otherwise be a dysfunctional gene .
in most case ( 60 out of 62 cdna ) , the unusual transcript appear to be an aberrant splice form - the transcript would probably not encode a functional protein because the splice introduce a frameshift or remove conserve functional residue ( figure 6 ) .
for two clone ( bottom two cdna , figure 6 ) , exon order in the cdna clone be inconsistent with the corresponding genomic sequence .
it be difficult to imagine what kind of clone artefact result in these severely scramble cdna : we suggest that they derive from real but rare transcript .
however , their low frequency in our cdna collection suggest that splicing contrary to genomic organization do not contribute significantly to the olfactory receptor transcript repertoire .
for 21 of the 26 gene for which unusually splice cdna be find , we also observe an alternative ( ' normal ' ) isoform that do not use splice site within the cod region .
( for the remain 13 of the 3 ' gene show odd splicing , we have identify only one cdna so have not determine whether normal isoforms be present . )
we be intrigue both by previous report of splicing of human olfactory receptor near the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) cluster , where several gene splice over long distance to a common upstream exon [ 26 , 27 ] and by the idea that olfactory receptor transcriptional control could be achieve by dna recombination mechanism , perhaps with the result that transcript would contain some sequence from another locus .
we therefore verify that the entire sequence of each olfactory receptor est match the correspond gene 's genomic ' territory ' ( define for this purpose a from 1 kb after the precede gene to 1 kb after the gene 's stop codon ) .
we find no cdna where intron encompass other olfactory receptor gene , a report for olfactory receptor in the human mhc region [ 26 , 27 ] .
six cdna do extend far than a single gene 's ' territory ' and appear not to be artifact of the sequencing or analysis process .
in each of these case , the clone use splice site within the 3 ' utr and thus extend far than the arbitrary 1 kb downstream of the stop codon .
five of these six cdna also use splice - donor site within the cod region and encode disrupt olfactory receptor ( figure 6 ) .
in the sixth cdna , a 2.6 - kb intron be splice out of the 3 ' utr , leave the cod region intact .
if olfactory receptor transcriptional control be achieve by dna recombination , the beginning of each transcript might derive from a donate promoter region , with the rest of the transcript come from the native orf - contain locus .
in order to examine the recombination hypothesis , we analyze 115 cdna clone for which sim4 fail to align 20 bp or more to the correspond genomic locus .
in most case , the missing sequence be explain by gap in the genomic sequence or by match that fell below our percent identity - base cutoff for report match .
for three cdna ( from three different olfactory receptor ) , we find that the missing piece of sequence match elsewhere in the genome .
comparison with the public mouse genome assembly confirm the distant match .
with such a small number of cdna exhibit a possible sign of dna recombination ( a sign that could also be interpret a chimeric cdna clone ) , we conclude that such rearrangement be unlikely to occur .
however , the possibility remain that dna recombination be responsible for olfactory receptor transcriptional regulation , with the donate region contribute only promoter sequence but no part of the transcript .
both unclustered olfactory receptor and olfactory receptor pseudogenes can be express
we be interested in whether olfactory receptor need to be part of a cluster in the genome in order to be transcribe , or if the clustered genomic organization of olfactory receptor be simply a consequence of the fact that local duplication be the major mechanism for expand the gene family [ 1 ] .
' singleton ' olfactory receptor ( define a full - length olfactory receptor without another olfactory receptor within 0.5 mb ) be more often pseudogenes than be olfactory receptor in cluster ( 8 out of 16 versus 271 out of 1,358 ; χ2 = 8.8 , p < 0.005 ) .
of the eight intact singleton olfactory receptor , two have match cdna in our collection , a similar proportion a find for olfactory receptor in cluster , show that cluster be not an absolute requirement for olfactory receptor expression .
however , it be possible these two express singleton gene be part of ' extend ' olfactory receptor cluster - their near olfactory receptor neighbor be 1.7 mb and 2.6 mb away , respectively .
we also find that some olfactory receptor pseudogenes be express , albeit with a low probability than intact olfactory receptor .
consider the 1,392 olfactory receptor gene sequence for which reliable full - length data be available , 15 out of 285 ( 5 % ) apparent pseudogenes be represent in our cdna collection , compare to 393 out of 1,107 ( 36 % ) intact olfactory receptor .
however , three of these 15 ' expressed pseudogenes ' be intact gene in the public mouse genome sequence .
the defect in celera 's version of these gene may be due to sequence error or true polymorphism .
publicly available mouse sequence confirm that 11 of the 12 remain expressed pseudogenes be indeed pseudogenes .
no public sequence match the 12th ' expressed pseudogene ' with 99 % identity or more .
discussion
we have identify and sequence 1,264 odorant receptor cdna from 419 olfactory receptor gene , confirm their expression in the olfactory epithelium .
we have thus validate the similarity - base prediction of over one - third of the intact olfactory receptor gene annotate in the mouse genome [ 1 , 2 ] , thereby vastly increase the proportion of the family for which experimental evidence of olfactory function be available .
we have not find cdna for all olfactory receptor gene or an even phylogenetic distribution of cdna , probably because the library and / or our screen be biased toward certain olfactory receptor subfamily .
use rt - pcr with both degenerate and specific primer , we have confirm olfactory expression of a number of additional olfactory receptor , bring the total number of olfactory receptor gene verify in this study to 436 , and ensure that almost all phylogenetic clade have at least one representative with evidence of olfactory function .
result of our cdna library screen suggest that some olfactory receptor be express at significantly high level than others .
we use quantitative pcr to show that expression level be indeed highly variable , with one olfactory receptor express at almost 300 time the level of another .
high expression level could be due to increase transcript number per cell and / or a great number of olfactory neuron ' choose ' those gene .
for one pair of gene we test , expression level difference appear to be due to both factor .
it would be interesting to collect data for additional gene to determine how the number of express cell and transcript level per cell vary across the olfactory receptor family .
data from a number of previous study also show that different olfactory receptor gene , or even copy of the same olfactory receptor transgene in different genomic location be express in different number of cell [ 14 , 18 , 35 ] , but do not address the issue of transcript level per cell .
the fact that some gene be choose more frequently , and when choose may be express at high level per cell , be intriguing give each olfactory neuron 's single - allele expression regime .
the observation of unequal expression lead to a number of question .
it be know that each olfactory receptor be express in one of four zone of the olfactory epithelium [ 14 , 15 ] ; do some zone choose from a small olfactory receptor sub-repertoire and thus express each olfactory receptor in a large number of cell ?
we note that several apparently highly express olfactory receptor ( gene a , this study , and mor10 and mor28 [ 36 ] ) be express in zone 4 of the olfactory epithelium .
do activity - dependent neuronal competition [ 37 ] contribute to increase representation of the olfactory receptor that respond to common environmental odorants ?
do the favored olfactory receptor have strong promoter sequence ?
be some olfactory receptor mrna more stable than others , lead to high transcript level per express cell ?
be the favored olfactory receptor in more open chromatin conformation or more accessible genomic location ?
transcription of apparent ' singleton ' olfactory receptor gene ( 0.5 mb or more from the near other olfactory receptor gene ) suggest that there be no absolute requirement for genomic clustering for an olfactory receptor to be transcribe , consistent with observation that small olfactory receptor transgene can be express correctly when integrate outside native olfactory receptor cluster [ 35 ] .
however , the high pseudogene count among singleton olfactory receptor gene ( 50 % , versus 20 % for cluster olfactory receptor gene ) suggest that not all genomic location be favorable for olfactory receptor gene survival , perhaps due to transcriptional constraint .
it be also possible that evolutionary factor may be responsible for reduced pseudogene content of clustered olfactory receptor - gene conversion between neighbor olfactory receptor could rescue inactivate mutation in clustered gene , but not singleton .
before these question about olfactory receptor gene choice can be answer , it will be important to measure expression level of a large number of gene , perhaps use an olfactory receptor gene microarray .
our study provide at least partial data about the upstream transcript structure of over 300 olfactory receptor gene .
these data provide tentative location of a large set of promoter region , allow computational search for share sequence motif that might be involve in the intriguing transcriptional regulation of olfactory receptor .
however , give that not all cdna be full - length clone , some of these candidate will not be true promoter region .
the 5 ' utr sequence we obtain will also aid in the design of experimental probe , for example , for in situ hybridization or to immobilize on an olfactory receptor microarray .
one of the challenge of such an array will be to design unique probe with which to represent each gene .
often , the cod region of olfactory receptor be highly similar between recently duplicate gene .
many pair of similar olfactory receptor show more sequence divergence in the utrs than the protein - cod region ( j.y. , unpublished observation ) .
the utrs would therefore make a good choice of sequence from which to design unique oligonucleotides to distinguish closely related olfactory receptor gene .
location of these region in genomic sequence be difficult to predict - our study provide 5 ' utr sequence of 343 gene and the approximate 3 ' utr length for 399 olfactory receptor gene .
probe design must also account for the multiple transcriptional isoforms observe for many olfactory receptor - depend on the question be ask , probe could be design in share sequence to determine the total level of all isoforms , or in unique exon to measure the level of each isoform separately .
we find that the majority of the olfactory receptor , like most non-olfactory receptor gene [ 38 , 39 ] , be transcribe a multiple isoforms , involve alternative splicing of 5 ' untranslated exon and alternate polyadenylation - site usage .
the act of splice itself may be important for efficient mrna export from the nucleus [ 40 ] or to couple olfactory receptor coding region with genomically distant promoter .
the exact nature of the splice transcript might be unimportant , such that several isoforms might be produce simply because multiple functional splice site be available .
alternatively , the multiplicity of transcriptional isoforms might have functional significance , a utrs may contain signal control mrna stability , localization or degradation [ 41 , 42 ] .
our study show that about 5 % of olfactory receptor transcript do not fit the current notion of olfactory receptor gene structure .
occasionally , an intron be splice out of the 3 ' untranslated region .
a number of cdna use splice site within the olfactory receptor 's orf , mean that their protein product be different from that predict on the basis of genomic sequence alone .
in two such case , the transcript would encode a functional olfactory receptor , with the initiate methionine and first few amino acid encode by an upstream exon , a have be observe previously for a subtelomeric human olfactory receptor gene [ 25 ] .
such within - orf splicing might increase protein - cod diversity , although , give the small number of gene involve , splicing be unlikely to significantly affect the functional receptor repertoire .
most of the atypical splice form we observe appear to encode non-functional transcript , contain frameshifts or lack a start codon or other functional residue conserve throughout the olfactory receptor family .
these nonfunctional transcript be probably aberrant by - product of the splicing system [ 43 ] that have not yet be degrade by rna surveillance system [ 40 , 41 ] .
the neuron express these aberrant transcript might also make normal transcript for the same gene and thus produce a functional olfactory receptor .
alternatively , the unusual transcriptional regulation of olfactory receptor might ensure that only one splice isoform be express per cell ( unlikely , but possible if an rna - base feedback mechanism operate ) , thus condemn cell express these aberrant isoforms to be dysfunctional .
we also observe transcript from a small number of olfactory receptor pseudogenes , a previously describe for three human olfactory receptor pseudogenes [ 26 , 44 ] .
although many few pseudogenes than intact gene be represent in our cdna collection , some neuron in the olfactory epithelium evidently express disrupted olfactory receptor and thus might be unable to respond to odorants or to correctly innervate the olfactory bulb .
wang , axel and coworkers have show that an artificial transgenic olfactory receptor gene contain two nonsense mutation can support development of an olfactory neuron , but that pseudogene - express neuron fail to converge on a glomerulus in the olfactory bulb [ 45 ] .
by analogy with an olfactory receptor deletion mutant [ 45 ] , it be likely that most pseudogene - express neuron die or switch to express a different olfactory receptor gene , leave a small number of pseudogene - express neuron in adult mouse , but at greatly reduce level compare to neuron express intact olfactory receptor .
conclusion
our study have provide an olfactory receptor cdna resource represent over one - third of the olfactory receptor gene family .
we have thus establish over 400 annotated olfactory receptor gene a have olfactory function .
the sequence we generate demonstrate that the majority of the olfactory receptor gene family have multiple transcriptional isoforms .
most olfactory receptor transcript encode functional receptor protein , with rare exception .
we show that individual olfactory receptor gene can have vastly different expression level , an intriguing finding in light of the unusual one - neuron one - gene transcriptional regime of the olfactory epithelium .
our result and the sequence we provide will facilitate future global study of the mechanism and dynamic of olfactory receptor gene expression .
material and method
identification of olfactory receptor cdna
an adult mouse cdna library make from the olfactory epithelium of a single animal be provide by leslie vosshall ( rockefeller university , new york , ny , usa ) , and an embryonic library ( make from the olfactory epithelium of several e16.5 - e18.5 embryo ) be provide by tyler cutforth ( columbia university , new york , ny , usa ) .
both library be oligo - dt prim and directionally clone into the lambdazap - xr vector ( stratagene , la jolla , ca , usa ) .
the adult library have a complexity of 6.5 × 106 primary clone , and the embryonic library have a complexity of 1.65 × 106 .
library be amplify to give titer of 5 × 109 pfu / ml ( adult ) or 2 × 1010 pfu / ml ( embryonic ) .
hybridization probe be make by degenerate pcr of mouse genomic dna , in a fashion similar to those describe previously [ 1 ] , with primer pair and anneal temperature give in table 2 .
low - stringency hybridization condition be a describe [ 1 ] .
clonally - pure plaque be obtain through secondary screen use the same probe a the correspond primary screen .
pcr with vector primer ( m13f / r ) be perform to prepare sequencing template .
cdna size estimate be obtain by agarose gel electrophoresis , and insert be sequence from the 5 ' end use the m13r primer and big - dye terminator chemistry accord to abi 's protocol ( applied biosystems , foster city , ca , usa ) .
in order to obtain 3 ' sequence , select phage clone be convert to plasmid stock follow a scale - down version of stratagene 's in vivo excision protocol .
plasmid dna give good 3 ' - end sequence than pcr product , which often suffer from polymerase stutter through the poly ( a ) tract .
cdna sequence and associate information be available through dbest ( genbank accession cb172832 - cb174569 ) and our olfactory receptor database [ 46 ] .
the updated olfactory receptor gene catalog be available through genbank ( accession ay317244 - ay318733 ) .
throughout the manuscript , gene be refer to by their genbank accession number .
sequence analysis
cdna sequence be base - call and quality - trim use phred ( trim_cutoff = 0.05 ) [ 47 ] , and vector sequence be remove use cross_match [ 48 ] .
any sequence of less than 50 bp after trimming be discard .
3 ' utr length be estimate by combine approximate insert size determine by pcr with 5 ' sequence data where possible ( if the 5 ' sequence do not extend into the cod region we could not estimate 3 ' utr size ) .
we count cdna from a give gene a show alternative polyadenylation site usage if 3 ' utr length estimate vary by at least 400 bp - small variation could be real , but may not be distinguishable from error in our size estimate .
to assign cdna to their correspond olfactory receptor gene , we first define a genomic ' territory ' for each gene , with the follow attribute : strand , start position ( 100 kb upstream of the start codon or 1 kb after the previous gene upstream on the same strand , whichever be close ) and end position ( 1 kb downstream of the stop codon ) .
trimmed sequence be compare with genomic sequence use sim4 [ 30 ] ( setting p = 1 to remove polya tail and n = 1 to perform an intensive search for small exon ) .
the sim4 algorithm use splice - site consensus sequence to refine alignment .
only match of 96 % or great nucleotide identity be consider .
repeatmasked sequence [ 49 ] be also compare to genomic sequence ; cdna : genomic sequence pairing not find in both masked and unmasked alignment be reject .
coordinate from the unmasked alignment be use for further analysis .
any cdna sequence match entirely within a territory be assign to that gene .
if a cdna match more than one gene territory , the best match be choose ( that is , the one with high ' score ' , where score be the total of all exon ' length multiply by their respective percent identity ) .
we find 27 cdna that span a large genomic range than one gene territory and flag them for more careful analysis .
of these , six cdna show unusual splicing within the 3 ' utr , but the remain ' territory violator ' be find to be artifact of the analysis process which fell into three type .
these include : cdna where the insert appear to be clone in the reverse orientation ( six cdna ) ; sequence from recently duplicate gene pair , where sim4 assign cod region and upstream exon to different member of the pair , although exon could equally well have be align closer to one another ( six cdna ) ; and artifact due to use of sim4 's n = 1 parameter ( nine cdna ) .
this parameter instruct the program to make extra effort to match small upstream exon , allow a great total length of est sequence to be match .
however , occasionally the n = 1 parameter cause the program to assign very small sequence ( 1 - 4 bp ) to distant upstream exon , when they probably match nearer to the correspond coding sequence .
the expected distribution show in figure 2 be calculate use the equation p ( x ) = e - μμx / x ! , where p ( x ) be the poisson probability of observe x cdna per gene , and μ be the mean number of cdna observe per gene ( μ = 1 , 176 / 983 : 1,176 cdna match olfactory receptor gene in our dataset and 983 intact class ii olfactory receptor ) .
in our analysis of expressed pseudogenes , we ignore two olfactory receptor pseudogenes find very near the end of genomic sequence and thus likely to be error - prone .
a protein sequence alignment of intact mouse olfactory receptor be generate use clustalw [ 50 ] , edit by hand , and use to produce the phylogenetic tree show in figure 1 use paup 's neighbor - join algorithm ( v4.0b6 version 4 , sinauer associate , sunderland , ma ) .
the tree be color use a custom script .
information content ( the measure of sequence conservation show in figure 6 ) be calculate for each position in the alignment use alpro [ 51 ] .
to determine the number of transcriptional isoforms for each gene , we examine the sim4 output for every match cdna in decreasing order of number of exon .
the first cdna be count a one splice form , and for each subsequent cdna , we determine whether exon structure be mutually exclusive to isoforms already count .
we be conservative in our definition of mutually exclusive , and thus our count represent the minimum number of isoforms represent in the cdna collection .
rt - pcr
the olfactory epithelium be dissect from three adult female c57bl / 6 mouse , include tissue attach to the skull and septum .
rna be isolate use the qiagen rneasy midi kit ( qiagen , valencia , ca , usa ) , include a dnase treatment step .
first - strand cdna be produce from 2.5 μg of rna in a volume of 50 μl use random hexamers and invitrogen 's superscript ii reverse transcriptase ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca , usa ) , accord to the manufacturer 's recommendation .
one - twenty - fifth of the result cdna be use a template in subsequent pcr reaction .
pcr amplification biased towards class i olfactory receptor be perform use degenerate primer p26 [ 17 ] and classi_r1 ( 5 ' - ggrttiadiryiggngg - 3 ' ) with an annealing temperature of 44 °c .
the product be clone ( ta cloning kit , invitrogen ) , and individual clone be sequence .
specific pcr primer use to confirm expression of individual olfactory receptor gene be give in additional data file 1 .
each pcr product be sequence to confirm that the expect gene and no others have be amplify .
control reaction on a template make by omit reverse transcriptase give no product , indicate that the rna preparation be uncontaminated by genomic dna .
relative transcript level be estimate use real - time pcr accord to applied biosystems ' protocol , with magnesium concentration , primer pair and fluorescent probe give in additional data file 2 .
the increase in fluorescence during thermocycling be measure on an abi prism 7900ht .
standard curve be construct for each primer pair use triplicate sample of mouse genomic dna of nine know concentration ( range 0.01 - 100 ng , or about 3 - 30,000 copy of the haploid genome ) .
relative expression level of each gene be determine by compare the mean ct ( cycle where fluorescence reach an arbitrary threshold value ) obtain with six replicate sample of reverse - transcribed rna to the standard curve for the correspond primer .
relative rna level of a housekeeping gene , ribosomal s16 , be measure a previously describe [ 52 ] .
control reaction on template prepare by omit reverse transcriptase amplify at a relative level of 0.03 ± 0.01 ng or less in each case .
expression measurement of the seven gene be normalize for each mouse so that s16 level be equal to 1 ( arbitrary unit ) .
in situ hybridization
coronal section be cut from the olfactory epithelium of an adult mouse ( figure 4 ) and a young ( p6 ) c57bl / 6 mouse .
rna in situ hybridization be carry out a describe previously [ 15 , 53 ] with digoxigenin - label antisense riboprobes specific for the 3 ' utrs of gene ay318555 ( 0.5 kb ) and ay317365 ( 0.5 kb ) .
riboprobe sequence be generate by pcr use primer pair 5 ' - tcttccaaacctggacccccc - 3 ' and 5 ' - atctctccagcaccttacttg - 3 ' for ay318555 and primer pair 5 ' - taagatgtaagtgataatttagattacagg - 3 ' and 5 ' - tttctgcctcagctatgacag - 3 ' for ay317365 .
hybridization be carry out in 50 % formamide at 65 °c , and slide be wash at high stringency ( 65 °c , 0.2 × ssc ) .
the probe each hybridize to only one band on a southern blot , indicate that each probe only detect one olfactory receptor gene .
blast analysis show that the ay318555 probe be unique in celera 's mouse genome assembly ( release 13 ) , and that the ay317365 probe be similar to only one other genomic region .
this potential cross-hybridizing region be over 10 mb from the near olfactory receptor coding region and be thus highly unlikely to be include in any olfactory receptor transcript .
low - power image be compose of three overlap micrographs ( 40 × ) assemble in adobe photoshop 7.0 .
additional data file
a list of the primer use to confirm the expression of olfactory receptor gene by rt - pcr and pcr from cdna library template can be find in additional data file 1 .
the experimental condition use for real - time pcr can be find in additional data file 2 .
supplementary material
additional data file 1
a list of the primer use to confirm the expression of olfactory receptor gene by rt - pcr and pcr from cdna library template
click here for additional data file
additional data file 2
the experimental condition use for real - time pcr
click here for additional data file
acknowledgement
we thank leslie vosshall and tyler cutforth for provide cdna library , staff of the core facility at the fred hutchinson cancer research center and the university of washington 's former department of molecular biotechnology for sequencing assistance , linda buck and michael schlador for comment on the manuscript and colin pritchard for s16 primer .
the data in this paper be analyze in part through use of the celera discovery system ™ and celera genomics ' associated database .
this work be support by nih grant r01 dc04209 .
figure and table
figure 1
olfactory receptor gene whose expression in the mouse olfactory epithelium be confirm in this study .
gene whose expression have be confirm by our cdna screen be color blue on a phylogenetic tree of 1,107 intact mouse olfactory receptor .
gene whose expression be confirm by pcr method be color red ( gene list in additional data file 1 be confirm by specific pcr of the cdna library or reverse - transcribed rna , and gene confirm use the class i degenerate primer for rt - pcr be ay317681 , ay317698 , ay317700 , ay317767 , ay317773 , ay317774 , ay317797 and ay317923 ) .
other olfactory receptor be color gray , and a chemokine outgroup be color black .
class i olfactory receptor be bracket , and the remain olfactory receptor be class ii .
figure 2
the cdna screen suggest different expression level for different olfactory receptor .
distribution of number of cdna observe ( dot ) and expect ( triangle , line ) per olfactory receptor gene among 1,176 olfactory receptor cdna identify , base on a poisson distribution .
figure 3
differential expression level among six olfactory receptor gene determine by quantitative pcr .
( a ) expression level of olfactory receptor gene can vary by almost 300-fold ( for example , gene a and d ) .
relative expression level of six select olfactory receptor gene ( a , ay318555 ; b , ay318107 ; c , ay318644 ; d , ay317365 ; e , ay317773 ; and f , ay317797 ) be determine in olfactory epithelium rna sample from three mouse .
expression level for each gene be first determine relative to a standard curve make use mouse genomic dna template , and then value for each mouse be normalize so that a housekeeping gene , ribosomal s16 , have a value of 1 ( arbitrary unit ) ( not show ) .
error bar show one standard deviation ( six replicate reaction ) .
gene e and f ( ay317773 and ay317797 ) be class i olfactory receptor .
number of cdna observe in our screen be show under each gene name .
( b ) expression level of each gene be similar , with some variation , among the three mouse sample .
graph show pairwise comparison between the three mouse sample , with relative expression level ( arbitrary unit ) in one mouse plot along the x - axis and in a second on the y - axis .
figure 4
olfactory receptor show different expression level .
different expression level of one pair of olfactory receptor be due to different number of express cell and different transcript level per cell .
rna in situ hybridization with digoxigenin - label probe for ( a ) gene a ( ay318555 ) and ( b ) gene d ( ay317365 ) on coronal section of the olfactory turbinate of an adult mouse , show at low magnification and inset ( boxed ) at high magnification .
endoturbinates ii and iii and ectoturbinate 3 be label in ( b ) .
figure 5
many olfactory receptor gene show alternate splicing .
distribution of the number of transcriptional isoforms observe for the 82 olfactory receptor for which we have identify at least four cdna .
figure 6
sixty - two olfactory receptor cdna use splice site within the cod region .
the bar at the top represent an alignment of all olfactory receptor protein , with transmembrane ( tm ) region shade gray and intracellular ( ic ) and extracellular ( ec ) loop in white .
above the bar , the jagged line plot information content [ 51 ] for each alignment position , with high value represent residue conserve across more olfactory receptor .
cdna with atypical splicing be plot below , align appropriately to the consensus representation .
genbank accession for each cdna be show on the right , and where more than one clone represent the same isoform , both name be give , but a composite sequence be draw .
multiple isoforms from the same gene be group by gray background shading .
thick black line represent cdna sequence , and thin line represent intronic sequence ( with diagonal slash mark if not draw to scale ) .
the uppermost two cdna encode potentially functional olfactory receptor .
a single cdna draw a white box ( cb173065 ) be clone into the vector in the reverse orientation .
intron that result in a frameshift relative to the olfactory receptor consensus be draw a single dashed line .
the first in - frame methionine in the cdna be mark with an ' m ' , and the first stop codon 5 ' to this methionine ( if any ) be mark with * .
most sequence be incomplete at the 3 ' end , a represent by paired dot line , although two sequence ( cb174400 and cb174364 ) , mark with ' ( a ) n ' , contain the cdna 's poly ( a ) tail .
the ' x ' on sequence cb173500 mark an exon that do not align with genomic sequence near the rest of the gene or anywhere else in celera 's mouse genome sequence , and ' tm4 ' on sequence cb172879 note an exon that match to the reverse - complement of the fourth transmembrane domain of the next downstream olfactory receptor gene .
for the two lowermost cdna , exon order in the cdna clone be inconsistent with the correspond genomic sequence , a represent by the curve intron line .
table 1
number of olfactory receptor in old ( release 12 ) and new ( release 13 ) celera mouse genome assembly
table 2
summary of cdna screen for each library and probe .
probe name comprise the name of the two primer and the annealing temperature use during pcr to generate the probe , separate by underscore
embryonic stem cell and mouse express different gfp variant for multiple non-invasive reporter usage within a single animal
abstract
background
non-invasive autofluorescent reporter have revolutionize lineage labeling in an array of different organism .
in recent year green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) from the bioluminescent jellyfish aequoria victoria have gain popularity in mouse transgenic and gene target regime [ 1 ] .
it offer several advantage over conventional gene - base reporter , such a lacz and alkaline phosphatase , in that it visualization do not require a chromogenic substrate and can be realize in vivo .
we have previously demonstrate the utility and developmental neutrality of enhance green fluorescent protein ( egfp ) in embryonic stem ( e ) cell and mouse [ 2 ] .
result
in this study we have use embryonic stem ( e ) cell - mediate transgenesis to test the enhance cyan fluorescent protein ( ecfp ) and enhance yellow fluorescent protein ( eyfp ) , two mutant and spectrally distinct color variant of wild type ( wt ) gfp .
we have also test dsred1 , the novel red fluorescent protein reporter recently clone from the discostoma coral by virtue of it homology to gfp .
to this end , we have establish line of e cell together with viable and fertile mouse have widespread expression of either the ecfp or eyfp gfp - variant reporter .
however , we be unable to generate equivalent dsred1 line , suggest that dsred1 be not developmentally neutral or that transgene expression can not be sustain constitutively .
balanced ( diploid < - > diploid ) and polarized ( tetraploid < - > diploid ) chimera comprise combination of the ecfp and eyfp e cell and / or embryo , demonstrate that population of cell express each individual reporter can be distinguish within a single animal .
conclusion
gfp variant reporter be unique in allow non-invasive multi-spectral visualization in live sample .
the ecfp and eyfp - express transgenic e cell and mouse that we have generate provide source of cell and tissue for combinatorial , double - tagged recombination experiment , chimera or transplantation .
background
the ease of manipulate it genome have help establish the mouse a the premier model organism for mammalian genetic study .
both directed and random mutagenesis approach , include the technology of transgenesis and gene targeting in e cell , have become commonplace .
genetically manipulate mouse , often incorporate gene - base reporter , be frequently be use to model and understand mammalian development and disease process .
fluorescent protein reporter currently represent a superior alternative to other gene - base reporter such a the bacterial lacz or human placental alkaline phosphatase in that their visualization be non-invasive , and a such do not require chromogenic substrate .
fluorescence can be monitor in real - time in vivo and in situ , and have the add advantage in that it can be quantify .
the prototype fluorescent protein reporter be green fluorescent protein ( gfp , review in [ 3 ] ) , which be derive from the bioluminescent jellyfish aequorea victoria [ 1 ] .
green fluorescent variant of wild type gfp ( wtgfp ) with improve thermostability and fluorescence emission , include enhance green fluorescent protein ( egfp , [ 4 ] ) , and mmgfp [ 5 ] , have gain popularity for use in mouse .
recently however , several additional mutant of wtgfp , with alter excitation and emission spectral profile ( i.e. fluoresce in color other than green ) , as well a improved thermostability and fluorescence , have be describe [ 4 , 6 ] .
dual color imaging of several gfp variant protein be a very attractive prospect and have become a standard procedure in cell biology [ 7 , 8 ] .
it have also recently be demonstrate in a subset of cell within the central nervous system ( cns ) of mouse use both transgenic and viral infection - based approach [ 9 , 10 ] .
we therefore wish to investigate the feasibility of non-invasive multiple reporter imaging in mouse , and a a first step we want to ascertain whether we could establish viable and fertile mouse with widespread expression of gfp variant reporter .
result and discussion
we test several of the available wtgfp variant for developmental neutrality and stability of widespread expression .
an e cell - mediate transgenic approach be use to evaluate the enhance cyan fluorescent protein ( ecfp ) and enhance yellow fluorescent protein ( eyfp ) wtgfp spectral variant [ 4 , 11 ] .
ecfp harbor six amino substitution ( y66w , f64l , s65t , n146i , m153t , v163a ) a compare to gfp , whereas eyfp harbor four ( s65g , v68l , s72a and t203y ) .
in addition to increase the quantum yield and solubility of the protein these mutation shift the spectral profile of the translation product [ 4 , 11 ] .
a breakthrough in the availability of spectrally distinct autofluorescent protein come with the cloning of six anthozoan fluorescent protein all have 20 – 30 % identity to wtgfp [ 12 ] .
of these , dsred1 ( refer to a drfp585 by matz et al. , [ 12 ] ) , a 28 kda protein isolate from the indopacific sea anemone discosoma sp , posseses the long excitation ( 558 nm ) and emission ( 583 nm ) wavelength maximum know for a wild - type autofluorescent protein .
the sequence of dsred1 have recently be modify and optimize for high level of expression in mammalian cell by the introduction of 144 silent base pair change correspond to human codon usage preference .
we therefore also test this novel red fluorescent protein ( rfp ) in e cell and mouse .
plasmid be construct for drive widespread expression of each of the gene - base fluorescent protein ( fp ) reporter and be test in e cell - mediated transgenics a describe previously [ 2 ] .
transgenic e cell exhibit robust expression of ecfp or eyfp be obtain at the same frequency a we have previously obtain for egfp .
cell express one or other of the two gfp variant reporter be clearly distinguishable within a mix population ( fig. 1a , 1b , 1c , 1d ) .
interestingly however we be unable to recover clone express dsred1 at the same frequency a for the gfp variant reporter after electroporation and selection under identical condition .
indeed the dsred1 express clone that we be able to recover do not retain their characteristic e cell morphology , usually appear small and more spherical ( fig. 1e and 1f ) , or occasionally spindle shape ( data not show ) .
unlike the fluorescence produce by the gfp variant which be evenly distribute throughout the cell , the dsred signal be never homogenous .
red fluorescence be often aggregate in what appear to be perinuclear region of the cytoplasm .
similar observation have be make by furuta and colleague when they use recombinant sindbis virus for the labeling of dendrite and axon within the cns of adult mouse [ 10 ] .
in order to generate a dsred variant that may be amenable to use in e cell and mouse , we recently introduce various sequence that direct nuclear localization to the dsred cod region .
however , again we be unable to generate e cell or mouse exhibit robust widespread reporter activity ( a. - k.h. and v.e. papaioannou , unpublished observation ) .
figure 1
non-invasive multiple reporter visualization in e cell .
( a - d ) a mixture of ck6 / ecfp ( ecfp+ ) and yc5 / eyfp ( eyfp+ ) e cell at low density .
( a ) image take under bright field with no epifluorescence .
( b ) dark field image take through an eyfp filter .
( c ) dark field image take through an ecfp filter .
( d ) dark field double exposure image acquire by consecutively use ecfp and eyfp filter .
ecfp+ cell can clearly be discern from eyfp+ cell .
( e - f ) culture of mix population of e cell comprise ecfp+ , eyfp+ and rfp+ cell .
scale bar represent 100 μm .
two ecfp+ and two eyfp+ clone exhibit robust fluorescence be use to generate chimera through e cell < - > morula stage embryo aggregation [ 13 ] .
all four e cell line transmit through the germline , lead to the establishment of , ck4 / ecfp and ck6 / ecfp , two strain of mouse have cyan fluorescent protein expression and , yc5 / eyfp and 2a4 / eyfp , two strain have widespread yellow fluorescent protein expression .
in these mouse the respective fp expression be constituitive , start at preimplantation stage and continue through postimplantation embryogenesis to adulthood ( fig. 2 ) .
one line express each color be choose for further analysis and breeding to homozygosity .
the availability of homozygous animal demonstrate that both reporter gene expression and the site of transgene integration be developmentally neutral .
figure 2
dual non-invasive reporter visualization in embryo and adult mouse .
transgenic animal be hemizygous for either the ck6 / ecfp or yc5 / eyfp transgene .
( a - d ) blastocyst stage ( e3.5 ) embryo , that be either fluorescent or non-fluorescent .
fluorescent embryo be either blue / cyan or yellow / green , thereby be hemizygous for either the ck6 / ecfp or yc5 / eyfp transgene respectively .
non-fluorescent embryo ( mark with an asterix on panel a ) be of the wild type outbred icr strain .
( a ) image take under bright field with no epifluorescence .
( b ) dark field image take through an eyfp filter .
( c ) dark field image take through an ecfp filter .
( d ) dark field double exposure image acquire by consecutively use ecfp and eyfp filter .
( e - h ) two transgenic ( tg / + ) e13.5 embryo dissect free of their extraembryonic membrane , one be blue / cyan fluorescent ( ck6 / ecfp transgenic , left ) and the other be yellow / green fluorescent ( 7yc5 / eyfp transgenic , right ) .
( e ) image take under bright field with no epifluorescence .
( f ) dark field image take through an eyfp filter .
( g ) , dark field image take through an ecfp filter .
( h ) double exposure acquire by consecutively use ecfp and eyfp filter .
( i - k ) two three week old transgenic mouse each exclusively express either the ecfp or eyfp reporter .
all image show be double exposure take by consecutively use ecfp and then the eyfp filter under epifluorescence .
( i ) ck6 / ecfp ( tg / + ) transgenic mouse bottom , yc5 / eyfp ( tg / + ) transgenic mouse bottom .
( j ) ck6 / ecfp ( tg / + ) transgenic mouse left , yc5 / eyfp ( tg / + ) transgenic mouse right .
( k ) high maginification view of the tail of the mouse in i and j .
zygotic expression of the fp transgene be clearly evident by the blastocyst stage ( fig. 2a , 2b , 2c , 2d ) and remain widespread thereafter ( fig. 2 ) .
figure 2 demonstrate that ecfp+ embryo can easily be distinguish from eyfp+ embryo and from non-transgenic non-fluorescent embryo from preimplantation stage ( fig. 2a , 2b , 2c , 2d ) to postimplantation stage ( fig. 2e , 2f , 2g , 2h ) .
additionally adult mouse can also be discriminate on the basis of the color of their fluorescence ( fig. 2i , 2j , 2k ) .
even though our rfp transgenic e cell line fail to maintain strong uniform expression with in vitro passage , we select three line exhibit the most robust expression for make chimera , in order to ascertain whether we could achieve , or possibly recover , rfp expression in animal .
cell be flow sort prior to aggregation so a to enrich for rfp expression .
even though they have lose their characteristic e cell morphology all three rfp+ e cell line go gemline a detect by coat color and pcr for the dsred1 transgene ( data not show ) .
however expression of the rfp reporter could not be detect in any organ of adult mouse nor in embryo ( data not show ) .
this suggest that the dsred1 rfp reporter be unable to recapitulate the expression profile of the promoter / enhancer combination employ .
therefore it appear that gfp variant reporter be more versatile with respect to their application in mouse .
we produce double fp - tag chimera in order to assess whether the ecfp and eyfp reporter could be co-visualized within the same animal .
the first series of chimera be generate through the aggregation of tetraploid embryo with fp+ e cell ( or embryo ) of the complementary color .
the procedure be schematize in fig. 3a .
it be evident that the expression of the two fps can easily be discern in these double transgenic embryo where the diploid , embryo - proper compartment be ecfp+ and the tetraploid extraembryonic compartment be eyfp+ ( fig. 3b , 3c , 3d , 3e , 3f ) .
secondly we investigate reporter co-visualization in balanced adult chimera comprise of both ecfp+ and eyfp+ compartment .
these be generate through the aggregation of diploid embryo with diploid embryo ( or e cell ) of the complementary color .
the aggregated component of the chimera from which each organ originate be schematize in the top right of each panel in fig. 4 .
these chimeric adult organ demonstrate that the ecfp+ and eyfp+ cell comprise these chimera can easily be discern ( fig. 4 ) .
it can therefore be envisage that two different fp color could be use in the construction of chimera so a to tag both mutant and wild type lineage .
figure 3
dual non-invasive reporter visualization in chimeric embryo generate by tetraploid < - > diploid aggregation .
in all panel the tetraploid compartment be yellow / green fluorescent ( eyfp+ ) and the diploid be blue / cyan fluorescent ( ecfp+ ) .
( a ) schematic representation of the tetraploid procedure .
electrofusion of e1.5 embryo to render the blastomere tetraploid , in vitro culture , and subsequent aggregation scheme use double - tagged compartment .
sandwich aggregation be make use either ecfp+ ( diploid ) morula or e cell .
( b - d ) anterior view of an e7.5 double - tagged polarize chimera dissect free of it deciduum and therefore miss primary giant cell and parietal endoderm .
here the epiblast ( low half of embryo ) and it derivative be ecfp+ whereas the extraembryonic ectoderm , the visceral endoderm and trophoblast be eyfp+ ( upper half or embryo ) .
( b ) dark field image take through an eyfp filter .
( c ) dark field image take through an ecfp filter .
( d ) dark field double exposure image acquire by consecutively use ecfp and eyfp filter .
( e ) dark field double filter exposure of an e9 chimera dissect free of all extraembryonic membrane except for a small piece of yolk sac ( low left ) .
the embryo itself be ecfp+ whereas the yolk sac both ecfp+ and eyfp+ in the mesoderm and endoderm respectively .
a small number of eyfp+ cell be also observe in the ventral midline of the embryo ( arrowhead ) .
this observation have be note previously in tetraploid chimera , and be presume to represent a small population of visceral endoderm cell that fail to be displace by the definitive endoderm at early stage .
( f ) dark field double filter exposure of an e10 chimera .
the embryo be exclusively ecfp+ whereas it placenta ( to the left of the embryo ) be predominantly eyfp+ .
the labyrinthine trophoblast layer of the placenta comprise both ecfp+ and eyfp+ cell .
figure 4
dual non-invasive reporter visualization in the organ of adult chimera .
all image depict dark field double exposure acquire by consecutively use ecfp and eyfp filter under dark field epifluorescence .
detail of aggregate be schematize at the top right of each panel .
( a - c ) heart and pancreas from double - tagged double - compartment adult chimera .
( a ) view of the surface of an adult heart .
( b ) close - up surface view of ventricle of a chimeric heart generate by aggregation of two diploid morula , one hemizygous for the ck6 / ecfp ( ecfp+ ) transgene and the other hemizygous for the yc5 / eyfp ( eyfp+ ) transgene .
the region of yellow / green and cyan fluorescence be clearly mutually exclusive .
the striation in the field of fluorescence represent the proliferative zone present within the ventricle .
( c ) chimeric pancreas generate by aggregation of a morula hemizygous for the yc5 / eyfp transgene with ck6 / ecfp e cell .
the restricted field of fluorescence represent the proliferative zone present within the pancreas .
( d ) liver from a double - tagged triple - compartment adult chimera .
a non-fluorescent morula be aggregate with two clump of e cell , one carry the ck6 / ecfp transgene ( ecfp+ ) and the other carry the yc5 / eyfp transgene ( eyfp+ ) .
an ecfp+ vessel have clonally proliferate and infiltrate the liver lobe ( top ) .
note that unlike in heart and pancreas there appear to be more interspersed blue / cyan v green / yellow fluorescence present in the liver , possibly reflect great cell intermingling during the genesis of this organ .
conclusion
from these observation we conclude that the blue - shift ecfp , and the red - shift eyfp variant of wtgfp be both amenable to use in mouse .
also since we have establish line of viable and fertile mouse have widespread fp expression we have demonstrate that ecfp and eyfp represent developmentally neutral reporter .
since we be unable to obtain e cell , embryo or mouse with widespread expression of a rfp ( dsred1 ) we conclude that this reporter be not developmentally neutral or that it expression can not be sustain at level high enough for detection , and a such be not as versatile a other gene - base fluorescent reporter .
ecfp and eyfp can be distinguish on the basis of their unique non-overlapping spectral profile , and chimera comprise of ecfp and eyfp tag compartment demonstrate that the two reporter can be simultaneously non-invasively visualize within the same embryo or adult organ .
therefore it should be possible to use flow cytometry to isolate cell express either or both of the reporter from embryo or adult organ [ 14 ] .
these two reporter can also be use to create pair of donor and acceptor for in vivo fluorescence energy transfer ( fret ) [ 15 ] .
since the emission profile of ecfp and eyfp be the least overlapping of all the usable gfp variant , these ecfp and eyfp currently represent the best combination for co-visualization and for use in multi-spectral double - tagged transgenic , chimeric and / or in vivo fret experiment ( review in [ 16 ] ) .
these experiment have demonstrate the feasibility of monitor multiple fp reporter non-invasively within a single animal , and have show the developmental neutrality of the fp reporter employ .
this should pave the way for novel strategy design to incorporate the use of compound transgenics or tissue recombination or chimeric analysis where several compartment be to be tag .
this technology should provide new possibility in manipulate the mouse genome , and non-invasively study the consequence .
material and method
vector construction
cdna encode ecfp , eyfp and dsred be amplify from plasmid pecfp , peyfp and pdsred1 - n1 ( clontech , inc. ) by pcr use hifi taq polymerase ( invitrogen ) .
for ecfp and eyfp primer use be gfp - l ( 5 ' - ttg aat tcg cca cca tgg tga gc ) and gfp - r ( 5 ' - ttg aat tct tac ttg tac agc tcg tcc ) , for dsred primer be red - l ( 5 ' - ttg aat tcg cca cca tgg tgc gct c ) and red - r ( 5 ' - ttg aat tct tac gct aca gct aca gga aca ggt g ) .
all 5 ' primer contain a kozak consensus translation initiation site upstream of the atg for increase translation efficiency in eukaryotic cell [ 17 ] .
to construct vector drive ubiquitous transgene expression in e cell and mouse , the pcr amplify cdna be digest with ecori and insert into the ecori site of pcaggs [ 18 ] to generate pcx - ecfp , pcx - eyfp and pcx - dsred .
pcaggs contain the chicken beta - actin promoter and first intron couple to the cmv immediate early enhancer , and rabbit beta - globin polyadenylation signal .
this promoter / enhancer combination have previously be show to drive strong and widespread transgene expression in e cell , embryo and adult mouse [ 18 , 19 ] .
tissue culture
r1 e cell [ 20 ] be maintain under standard culture condition in the presence of lif , a describe previously [ 21 ] .
20 μg of sali linearize pcx - ecfp , pcx - eyfp or pcx - dsred1 be co-electroporated into 2 × 107 cell with 5 – 10 μg of circular ppgkpuro [ 22 ] .
this provide transient drug resistance which could be use a a selection for obtain individual colony .
selection be apply 24 hour after electroporation and maintain for 5 day , thereafter cell be propagate in in the absence of selection .
fluorescent colony be pick into 96 - well plate , expand and archive a describe previously ( [ 2 ] .
clone be screen for strong , stable , and homogenous transgene expression during culture in the absence of drug selection .
chimera production and germline transmission
e cell line exhibit robust transgene expression in vitro be assess in vivo for the spatiotemporal extent of transgene expression and their developmental potential in chimera produce by aggregation with wild type tetraploid icr embryo so a to produce completely es cell - derived embryo , a describe previously [ 20 , 23 ] .
a detailed protocol can be find on the world wide web at .
clone give fluorescent e12.5 embryo have no readily identifiable malformation be use to generate germline transmit chimera by aggregation with diploid wild type icr embryo a describe previously [ 21 , 23 ] .
after germline transmission transgene be breed to homozygosity .
transgene be maintain on both mixedbred icr and inbred 129 / svj genetic background [ 24 ] .
imaging
photograph of live sample , freshly dissect in pb ( [ 24 ] be take on a leica mzfliii stereo dissecting microscope equip with epifluorescence optic .
filter set use be : excitation 436 / 20 nm , dichroic mirror 455 nm , barrier 480 / 40 nm for ecfp , excitation 500 / 20 nm , dichroic mirror 515 nm , barrier 535 / 30 nm for eyfp and excitation 540 / 25 nm , dichroic mirror 565 nm , barrier 605 / 55 for dsred .
adult mouse be anaesthetize with avertin .
they be then place on the stage of a stereo dissect microscope ( leica mzfliii ) from which the objective have be remove , such that they be illuminate use the epifluorescence optic ( lamp and excitation filter ) .
photograph be take use a nikon fe10 35 mm slr camera fit with individual emission filter .
image be process use photoshop software ( adobe system ) .
footnote
the cyan and yellow fluorescent protein - express mouse describe here have be acquire by , and be available from , the jackson laboratory induced mutant resource .
they be refer to therein a 003373 stock tgn ( actbecfp ) 1nagy ( ck6 / ecfp ) and 003772 stock tgn ( actbeyfp ) 1nagy ( yc5 / eyfp ) .
acknowledgement
we thank j.-i. miyazaki for the pcaggs plasmid .
a. - k.h. be particularly indebted to v. e. papaioannou for helpful discussion and constructive comment on the manuscript .
this work be support by grant from the national cancer institute of canada .
identification and target disruption of the mouse gene encode esg1 ( ph34 / ecat2 / dppa5 )
abstract
background
embryonic stem cell - specific gene ( esg ) 1 , which encode a kh - domain contain protein , be specifically express in early embryo , germ cell , and embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
previous study identify genomic clone contain the mouse esg1 gene and five pseudogenes .
however , their chromosomal localization or physiological function have not be determine .
result
a blast search of mouse genomic database fail to locate the esg1 gene .
we identify several bacterial artificial clone contain the mouse esg1 gene and an additional esg1 - like sequence with a similar gene structure from chromosome 9 .
the esg1 - like sequence contain a multiple critical mutation , indicate that it be a duplicate pseudogene .
the 5 ' flanking region of the esg1 gene , but not that of the pseudogene , exhibit strong enhancer and promoter activity in undifferentiated e cell by luciferase reporter assay .
to study the physiological function of the esg1 gene , we replace this sequence in e cell with a β - geo cassette by homologous recombination .
despite specific expression in early embryo and germ cell , esg1 - / - mouse develop normally and be fertile .
we also generate esg1 - / - e cell both by a second independent homologous recombination and directly from blastocyst derive from heterozygous intercrosses .
northern blot and western blot analysis confirm the absence of esg1 in these cell .
these e cell demonstrate normal morphology , proliferation , and differentiation .
conclusion
the mouse esg1 gene , together with a duplicate pseudogene , be locate on chromosome 9 .
despite it specific expression in pluripotent cell and germ cell , esg1 be dispensable for self - renewal of e cell and establishment of germcells .
background
embryonic stem ( e ) cell be first derive from the blastocyst of mouse in 1981 [ 1 , 2 ] and human in 1998 [ 3 ] .
e cell have two important property : theability to maintain pluripotency , which be the ability to differentiate into a wide variety of cell , and rapid proliferation .
these characteristic make mouse e cell an essential component of gene targeting technology .
these quality also make human e cell attractive source for cell transplantation therapy to treat various disease , include spinal cord injury and juvenile diabetes .
the molecular mechanism underlie the pluripotency and rapid proliferation of e cell be currently a major focus of the field of stem cell biology [ 4 - 6 ] .
to identify molecule essential in e cell for these property , several group have utilize transcriptome analysis to identify gene specifically express in e cell and early embryo .
these analysis , include dna microarray analysis [ 7 ] and express sequence tag analysis [ 8 - 12 ] , identify several common transcript , include esg1 that be also designate dppa5 or ecat2 .
esg1 be originally identify a a transcript ph34 that be down - regulate by retinoic acid in embryonic carcinoma cell [ 13 ] .
the expression of this gene be confine in mouse to early embryo and germ cell [ 14 ] .
it be also express in pluripotent cell , include e cell , embryonic germ cell , and multipotent germline stem cell [ 15 ] .
esg1 encode a polypeptide of 118 amino acid that contain a single kh domain , which be an rna - bind domain [ 16 ] .
it remain unclear , however , if esg1 function a an rna - bind protein or the role it play in e cell and mouse .
previous genomic library screening by identify genomic clone contain the mouse esg1 gene and seven pseudogenes [ 17 ] .
two of these pseudogenes exhibit a similar exon - intron structure a the esg1 gene , indicate their generation by gene duplication .
the five remain pseudogenes do not contain any intron , indicate that these be generate by retrotransposition of esg1 transcript .
the chromosomal localization of the mouse esg1 gene and pseudogenes , however , have not be report .
in this study , we determine the structure of the mouse gene encode this protein and related pseudogenes .
we also perform gene targeting to determine the physiological function of esg1 .
result and discussion
chromosomal localization and structure of mouse esg1 gene and psedogenes
to determine the chromosomal localization of the mouse esg1 gene and pseudogenes , we perform a blast analysis of the mouse genomic database with the esg1 cdna sequence a a query .
we identify several putative pseudogenes without intron on chromosome 1 , 5 , 11 , 12 , 14 , 16 , 17 , and x ( figure 1 ) .
in addition , two intron-less pseudogenes be identify in dna fragment for which the chromosomal localization remain unmapped .
while these pseudodgenes have significant homology to esg1 cdna , they could not produce functional protein , because of critical mutation .
this result suggest that there be a large number of intron-less pseudogenes than previously anticipate .
existence of multiple retropseudogenes be a hallmark of pluripotent cell - specific gene [ 18 ] .
figure 1
esg1pseudogenes identify by a blast search of mouse genomic database .
substitution mutation be indicate by black line .
intron - like gap sequence be indicate with triangle .
chromosomal localization be show on the right .
on chromosome 9 , we identify a dna fragment similar to the esg1 gene that include two putative intron .
these putative first and second exon , however , contain ( 4 ) multiple mutation of the esg1 cdna sequence .
the putative third exon be identical to that of the previously report esg1 gene .
also on chromosome 9 , we identify another dna fragment that be similar , but not identical , to the third exon of the esg1 gene .
these finding suggest that these esg1 - like sequence on chromosome 9 have not be correctly assemble .
to obtain dna fragment contain the esg1 gene , we screen the bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) dna pool by pcr use primer pair that would only amplify the real gene , not the pseudogenes .
we obtain two independent , but overlap bac clone .
southern blot analysis and sequencing demonstrate that these clone contain a sequence exhibit complete identity with esg1 cdna that be interrupt by two putative intron ( figure 2a ) .
the two intron sequence begin with gt and terminate with ag , fulfil the gt - ag rule of exon - intron junction [ 19 ] .
the 5 ' flanking region of this dna fragment exhibit strong promoter / enhancer activity by luciferase reporter assay in undifferentiated e cell , but not in somatic cell ( figure 3 ) .
the same fragment show much weak activity after induction of differentiation by retinoic acid .
we conclude that this sequence be the esg1 gene .
figure 2
bac clone contain the esg1 gene and a duplication pseudogene ( p ) .
a ) localization of the gene and p on chromosome 9 .
b ) sequence comparison of the gene and p reveal that these be homologous from eight base pair upstream of the first exon to 675 bp downstream of the third exon .
substitution mutation be indicate by black line .
the insertion be indicate by an open triangle .
figure 3
promoter / enhancer activity of the esg1 gene and pseudogene .
dna fragment of ~ 6 kbp isolate from the 5 ' flanking region of the gene and p be transfer into luciferase reporter plasmid .
we introduce the reporter gene into undifferentiated e cell ( open column ) , retinoic acid - treat e cell ( grey column ) , and nih3t3 cell ( close column ) .
data represent the average and standard deviation of three independent experiment .
we also find that the two bac clone contain another esg1 - like sequence ( figure 2a ) .
the two sequence , separate by a 68 kbp intergenic sequence , be orient in opposite direction .
the esg1 - like sequence exhibit great than 95 % identity to the exon and intron of the esg1 gene .
this sequence , however , contain critical nucleotide substitution in all of the exon and one nucleotide insertion in exon 2 ( figure 2b ) .
although 675 base pair of the 3 ' flanking region be conserve between the esg1 gene and the pseudogene , only five base pair of the 5 ' flanking region be identical .
this 5 ' flanking region ( ~ 6 kbp ) do not possess any promoter / enhancer activity in luciferase reporter assay ( figure 3 ) .
it be thus unlikely that this sequence be transcribe or translate into a functional protein .
this sequence likely represent a duplication pseudogene .
bierbaum previously report the existence of two pseudogenes with similar exon - intron organization a the esg1 gene [ 17 ] .
we could not determine which of these two pseudogenes correspond to the one we identify or the location of the remain pseudogene .
target disruption of the mouse esg1 gene
to study the function of esg1 , we delete the gene by homologous recombination in mouse e cell .
we replace the three exon with either a fusion of the neomycin - resistance and β - galactosidase gene ( β - geo ) or the hygromycin resistant gene ( hygr ) use two targeting vector ( figure 4a ) introduce into rf8 e cell by electroporation .
we obtain eight e cell clone with correct homologous recombination of the β - geo targeting vector , which be confirm by southern blot analysis ( figure 4b ) .
we obtain only one clone with correct homologous recombination of the hygr targeting vector .
figure 4
target disruption of the mouse esg1 gene .
a ) targeting strategy .
homologous region be indicate by thick line .
recognition site of psti ( p ) and spei ( s ) , which be use for southern blot analysis , be show .
the gene encode diphtheria toxin a ( dta ) be insert at the 3 ' end of the targeting vector to facilitate negative selection .
b ) southern blot analysis confirm homologous recombination .
wt , wild - type e cell ; β , β - geo + / - e cell ; h , hygr + / - e cell ; - / - , esg1 - null e cell .
number indicate clone number .
c ) northern blot ( upper ) and western blot ( low ) analysis of wild - type e cell ( wt ) , esg1 - null e cell ( - / - , three clone ) and heterozygous e cell ( + / - ) .
northern blot be perform a previously describe [ 20 ] .
to confirm the loading of equal amount of rna , ethidium bromide staining of ribosomal rna be also show ( middle ) .
to obtain homozygous mutant e cell , we introduce the β - geo vector into hygr heterozygous e cell .
of 105 g418 - resistant colony test , 49 be homozygous for esg1 deletion .
northern blot and western blot analysis confirm the absence of esg1 in these cell ( figure 4c ) .
in 29 clone , the β - geo vector have replace the hygr vector , such that the cell remain heterozygous .
in the remain 27 clone , the β - geo vector be integrate at non-homologous site .
esg1 - / - e cell exhibit normal morphology ( figure 5a ) .
these cell also proliferate at a speed comparable to that of the control ( heterozygous and wild - type ) cell ( figure 5b ) .
esg1 - / - cell differentiate normally after the removal of leukemia inhibitory factor ( figure 5b ) or retinoic acid treatment ( not show ) .
when transplant into hind flank of nude mouse , these cell produce teratoma , tumor contain component of all three germ layer ( figure 5c ) .
these result indicate that esg1 be dispensable for the self - renewal property and pluripotency of e cell .
figure 5
analysis of esg1 - null e cell .
a ) the morphology of esg1 - null e cell colony grow on sto feeder cell .
b ) growth curve of wild - type ( wt ) , esg1 - null ( - / - ) and heterozygous ( + / - ) e cell .
each clone ( 1 × 104 cell / well ) be plat in 24 - well plate .
cell number be determine with a coulter counter at 2 , 4 , and 6 day .
data of + / - and - / - cell be show a average and standard deviation of three independent clone .
c ) a section of teratoma derive from esg1 - null e cell ( hematoxylin & eosin staining ) .
we examine the gene expression profile of esg1 - / - e cell use oligonucleotide - base dna microarrays represent ~ 20,000 gene .
in comparison to control e cell , esg1 be identify a the gene reduce to the great extent in esg1 - / - e cell ( figure 6a ) .
the expression of e cell marker gene , such a nanog and oct3 / 4 , be normal in esg1 - / - e cell .
we confirm normal oct3 / 4 expression at protein level by western blot ( figure 6b ) .
the overall gene expression profile be similar between control e cell and esg1 - / - e cell .
several gene exhibit a great than two-fold reduction in esg1 - / - cell , include krt1 - 8 , pem , ctgf , ptgs2 , igf2 and inhba .
these gene might be regulate directly or indirectly by esg1 .
since esg1 contain a kh - type rna - bind domain , it may stabilize mrna of these gene .
far study be require to clarify this possibility .
figure 6
gene expression analysis of esg1 - null e cell .
a ) dna microarray analysis .
total rna from wild - type e cell and esg1 - null e cell be label with cy3 and cy5 , respectively .
sample be hybridize to agilent mouse developmental microarrays .
the average of two independent clone be show .
b ) western blot analysis .
cell lysates from esg1 + / - and esg1 - / - cell be examine for expression of esg1 , oct3 / 4 and cdk4 with immunoblotting .
to generate esg1 - knockout mouse , we inject β - geo - esg1 + / - e cell clone into the blastocyst of c57bl6 mouse .
we obtain germline transmission from three clone .
we obtain esg1 - / - mouse at the mendelian ratio ( 36 wild - type , 69 esg1 + / - , and 45 esg1 - / - ) from intercrosses of esg1 + / - mouse .
these animal exhibit normal development , gross appearance , and fertility ( not show ) .
histological examination of testis and ovary could not identify any abnormality ( not show ) .
these data demonstrate that esg1 be dispensable for both mouse development and germ cell formation .
we also generate e cell from blastocyst obtain by intercrosses of esg1 + / - male and esg1 - / - female .
of the eight e cell line establish , two clone be esg1 - / - .
these esg1 - null e cell demonstrate normal morphology , proliferation , and differentiation ( not show ) , confirm that esg1 be dispensable in e cell .
conclusion
to analyze the physiological role of esg1 , we identify the mouse gene on chromosome 9 and delete it by homologous recombination in e cell .
despite specific expression in early embryo , germ cell , and pluripotent cell , our data demonstrate that esg1 be dispensable for mouse development , germ cell formation , and e cell self - renewal .
method
identification and analysis of bac clone contain the mouse esg1 gene
to identify bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) clone contain mouse esg1 gene , we perform pcr - base screening of mouse bac library dna pool ( research genetics ) use the ph34 - u38 ( 5 ' - gaagtctggttccttggcagg - 3 ' ) and ph34 - l394 ( 5 ' - actcgatacactggcctagc - 3 ' ) primer .
follow restriction enzyme digestion , we perform southern blot analysis of bac clone a describe [ 20 ] use the ph34 - u258 ( 5 ' - ctcgagtgtacagtcaagtggttgctggga - 3 ' ) , ph34 - u65 ( 5 ' - gtgaccctcgtgacccgtaa - 3 ' ) , ph34 - intron1l ( 5 ' - ctgcgtgagagaaacaccaaacaggc - 3 ' ) , ph34 - l545 ( 5 ' - tgtgaatgggaaggttaccactct - 3 ' ) and ph34 - scl1 ( 5 ' - gccctcttctggtttgtctcgaaat - 3 ' ) probe .
hybridization with these probe reveal band contain either the esg1 gene or pseudogenes .
to sequence the region contain the mouse esg1 gene and the 3 ' flanking region , we subcloned a ~ 15 kbp xhoi - sali fragment into the pzero - 2 vector ( invitrogen ) .
hindiii - or ecori - digest fragment of this vector be then clone into pbluescript k ( - ) for sequencing .
to sequence the esg1 pseudogene and the 3 ' flanking region , an 8 kbp noti / xhoi fragment be clone into pbluescript k ( - ) .
bamhi - or psti - fragment of this vector be also clone into pbluescript k ( - ) .
to identify the sequence contain the 5 ' flanking region of the esg1 gene and the related pseudogenes , we use a topo walker kit ( invitrogen ) with the ph34 - t2l ( 5 ' - actagtcgcagcagggatccaggaatatct - 3 ' ) and ph34 - l394 primer .
the result sequence be clone into pcr2.1 ( invitrogen ) .
we obtain a ~ 6 kbp band from the nsii - digensted library ; xbai - , spei - , ecori - , and psti - digest fragment of this band be clone into pbluescript k ( - ) for sequencing .
this fragment contain the 5 ' flanking region of the esg1 gene .
a ~ 3 kbp fragment , obtain from the saci - digest library , be clone into pcr2.1 for sequencing .
this fragment be contain the 5 ' region flank the pseudogene .
construction of esg1 targeting vector
we replace all of the esg1 exon with two targeting vector contain either an ire - β - geo cassette [ 21 ] or an ire - hygr cassette by promoter trap selection .
we amplify the 5 ' arm ( 1.8 kbp ) use kod plus ( toyobo ) with the ph34 - targetpair5 - u ( 5 ' - ccgcggaaagtcaagagattgggtgg - 3 ' ) and ph34 - targetpair5 - l ( 5 ' - gcggccgcctttacgggtcacgagggtcac - 3 ' ) primer .
the 3 ' arm ( 5.8 kbp ) be amplify use the ph34 - targetpair3 - u ( 5 ' - tgtggccagtgtttggttctggcggg - 3 ' ) and ph34 - targetpair3 - l ( 5 ' - ctcgaggactcgccattctagccaag - 3 ' ) primer .
the ire β - geo or ire hygr cassette be ligate in between the two pcr fragment .
the diphtheria toxin a cassette be place downstream of the 3 ' arm .
after linearization with sacii , these targeting vector be electroporated into 2.0 × 107 rf8 e cell [ 22 ] use a gene pulser ( biorad ) .
transfected cell be select with 250 μg / ml g418 or 100 μg / ml hygromycin b , respectively .
genomic dna from g418 - or hygromycin b - resistant colony be screen for homologous recombination by southern blotting .
southern blot screening for homologous recombination
e cell genomic dna be extract with puregene ™ cell lysis solution ( gentra system ) .
for 5 ' southern blot analysis , genomic dna be first digest with psti , then separate on an 0.8 % agarose gel and transfer to a nylon membrane a describe [ 20 ] .
a 560 bp 5 ' probe be amplify use the esg1s5 ( 5 ' - gatggtggtggtgactcagag - 3 ' ) and esg1as5 a ( 5 ' - cctccattgcctctatatcag - 3 ' ) primer .
the probe specifically label an 18 kbp band from the wild - type locus , a 15 kbp band from the β - geo locus , and a 12 kbp band from the hygr locus .
genomic dna be also digest with spei for 3 ' southern blot analysis .
a 1,010 bp 3 ' probe be amplify with the ph34u - 8000 ( 5 ' - ccaaccagccagagtttcagttat - 3 ' ) and ph34l - 9000 ( 5 ' - gataagctgctgccaaaagacaag - 3 ' ) primer .
the probe hybridize to an 11.5 kbp band from the wild - type locus , a 12.5 kbp band from the β - geo locus , and a 9.5 kbp band from the hygr locus .
generation of anti-esg1 polyclonal antibody
the cod sequence of esg1 be amplify by pcr with the ph34 - gw - s ( 5 ' - aaaaagcaggctggatgatggtgaccctcgtga - 3 ' ) and ph34 - gw - a ( 5 ' - agaaagctgggtctgcatccaggtcggagaca - 3 ' ) primer .
to construct pdonr - ph34 , the result pcr product be subcloned into pdonr201 ( invitrogen ) .
pdonr - ph34 be interact with pdest17 ( invitrogen ) by lr recombination .
after introduction of the result expression vector pdest17 - ph34 into bl21 - ai e. coli ( invitrogen ) , recombinant protein production be induce accord to the manufacture 's protocol .
histidine - tag esg1 be purify use ni - nitrilotriacetic acid agarose ( qiagen ) under denaturing condition in the presence of 8 m urea .
after dialysis against 6 m urea , the recombinant protein be inject into new zealand white rabbit to generate anti-esg1 polyclonal antibody .
western blot
after preparation of e cell extract with m - per ( pierce ) , cellular protein be separate on sodium dodecyl sulfate ( sd ) - 14 % polyacrylamide gel and transfer to nitrocellulose membrane ( millipore ) .
membrane be incubate with anti-esg1 ( 1 / 500 dilution ) , anti-oct3 / 4 ( 1 / 500 ; santa cruz biotechnology ) , anti-cdk4 ( 1 / 200 ; santa cruz biotechnology ) , and anti-gfp ( 1 / 1000 ; mbl ) primary antibody .
horseradish peroxidase - conjugate anti-rabbit and anti-mouse immunoglobulin ( 1 / 5000 ; cell signaling ) be use to detect antibody binding .
we visualize bind antibody with an ecl western blotting detection system ( amersham ) .
derivation of esg1 - deficient e cell from blastocyst
esg1 + / - or esg1 - / - mutant female mouse be inject with tamoxifen ( 10 μg ) and depo - provera ( 1 mg ) subcutaneously on the third day of pregnancy .
four day later , embryo in diapause be flush out of the uterus and culture on sto feeder cell in four - well plate in dulbecco 's modify eagle medium ( dmem ) supplement with 20 % fetal bovine serum ( hyclone ) , 0.1 mm non-essential amino acid ( invitrogen ) , 2 mm l - glutamine ( invitrogen ) , 50 u / ml penicillin - streptomysin ( invitrogen ) , and 0.11 mm 2 - mercaptoethanol ( invitrogen ) .
after six day , the central mass of each explant be harvest , rinse in pb , and place in a drop of trypsin for a few minute .
the cell mass be collect with a finely draw - out pasteur pipette preloaded with medium , ensure minimal carryover of the trypsin .
the cell be gently transfer into a fresh well with 20 % fbs - contain medium .
the result primary e cell colony be individually passaged into well of four - well plate contain sto feeder cell layer .
thereafter , cell be expand by trypsinization of the entire culture .
microarrays
total rna from wild - type e cell and esg1 - / - e cell be label with cy3 and cy5 , respectively .
the sample be hybridize to a mouse development microarray ( algilent ) accord to the manufacturer 's protocol .
array be scan with a g2565ba microarray scanner system ( agilent ) .
hybridization be repeat with two independent clone .
data be analyze with genesprings software ( silico genetics ) .
author ' contribution
ha carry out the phenotypic study of esg1 knockout mouse .
ki determine the chromosomal localization of the esg1 gene and pseudogenes and construct the targeting vector .
ti carry out mouse embryo manipulation .
mm and mn carry out e cell culture .
sy conceive of the study , and participate in it design and coordination and help to draft the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
we thank chihiro takigawa , junko iida , masako shirasaka , yumi ohuchi , and megumi narita for their technical and administrative assistance .
we be grateful to drs. minoru ko and azim surani for share helpful data prior to publication , dr. hitoshi niwa for generously provide various vector , and dr. robert farese jr. for his kind gift of the rf8 e cell .
this work be support in part by research grant from the ministry of education , culture , sport , science , and technology of japan , the uehara memorial foundation , the naito foundation , the sumitomo research foundation , the mitsubishi foundation .
s.y. be support by a toray science and technology grant ( to s.y. ) .
this work be also support in part by a grant - in - aid for 21st century coe ( center of excellence ) research from the ministry of education , culture , sport , science , and technology .
dppa3 / pgc7 / stella be a maternal factor and be not require for germ cell specification in mouse
abstract
background
in mouse , germ cell be specify through signalling between layer of cell comprise the primitive embryo .
the function of dppa3 ( also know a pgc7 or stella ) , a gene express in primordial germ cell at the time of their emergence in gastrulating embryo , be unknown , but a recent study have claim that it play a central role in germ cell specification .
result
to test dppa3 's role in germ cell development , we disrupt the gene in mouse embryonic stem cell and generate mutant animal .
we be able to obtain viable and fertile dppa3 - deficient animal of both sex .
examination of embryonic and adult germ cell and gonad in dppa3 - deficient animal do not reveal any defect .
however , most embryo derive from dppa3 - deficient oocyte fail to develop normally beyond the four - cell stage .
conclusion
we find that dppa3 be an important maternal factor in the cleavage stage of mouse embryogenesis .
however , it be not require for germ cell specification .
background
among the many specialize cell type present in adult mammal , the first to be program or specify during embryogenesis be germ cell , which give rise to egg and sperm .
which molecule direct this programming of germ cell ?
in many other animal , include fly and worm , material know a " germ plasm " be lay down in the egg before fertilization , and it subsequent passage to a subset of embryonic cell dictate their fate a germ cell [ 1 , 2 ] .
in mammalian embryo , germ cell be specify in a very different manner , through signal between layer of cell comprise the primitive embryo [ 3 , 4 ] .
recently , saitou , barton and surani propose a molecular pathway by which these intercellular signal be translate into germ cell fate in mouse [ 5 , 6 ] .
central to this propose program of germ cell specification be stella / pgc7 / dppa3 , a gene express in primordial germ cell and their descendant , include oocyte [ 5 , 7 , 8 ] .
here we will use the name dppa3 , a approve by the mouse genome informatics database , when refer to this gene .
saitou and colleague ' model of dppa3 's role in germ cell specification be base on the timing and site of the gene 's expression , not on functional analysis .
nonetheless , the model make clear prediction a to the phenotype of mouse lack dppa3 function : such embryo should not form germ cell .
we test this prediction and seek to clarify the gene 's importance by generate dppa3 - deficient mouse and examine their germline development .
result and discussion
we disrupt the dppa3 gene in culture embryonic stem ( e ) cell and thereby generate dppa3 - deficient mouse .
specifically , we replace the entire open reading frame of dppa3 in mouse v6.5 e cell [ 9 ] with a hygromycin - thymidine kinase selection cassette flank by loxp site ( figure 1a ) .
the selection cassette be subsequently remove via transient expression of cre recombinase in targeted e cell .
the result heterozygous dppa3tm1wht / + e cell be use to generate chimeric mouse , which transmit the mutation to offspring .
intercrosses between dppa3tm1wht / + heterozygous animal yield dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht homozygote as well a dppa3tm1wht / + heterozygote and + / + offspring , demonstrate that zygotic function of dppa3 be not essential for viability ( figure 1b ) .
this allow u to characterize germ cell development in animal lack dppa3 .
figure 1
generation of dppa3 - deficient animal .
a , schematic representation of genomic ablation of dppa3 .
the gene 's four exon be show ; non-coding region of the first and last exon be shade gray .
the hygromycin - thymidine kinase ( hygro - tk ) cassette replace the entire open reading frame of the gene .
cre - mediate excision of the selection cassette leave only the non-coding portion of the gene , together with a single loxp site ( white triangle ) .
also show be the location of genotyping primer p1 , p2 and p3 in wild - type and mutated dppa3 allele .
b , pcr genotyping of the offspring of an intercross between dppa3tm1wht / + animal .
infer genotype be show above the gel image .
the wild type allele yield a pcr product of 304 bp with primer p1 and p2 .
the mutant allele ( dppa3tm1wht ) yield a pcr product of 492 bp with primer p1 and p3 .
m , dna molecular weight marker .
dppa3 be not require for germ cell specification
our finding do not support the propose centrality of dppa3 in germ cell programming .
first , the gonad of dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht embryo contain germ cell , identify by expression of alkaline phosphatase , in number comparable to those of dppa3tm1wht / + and + / + embryo ( figure 2a ) .
second , the ovary of dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht adult female express oct4 , a marker of oocyte [ 10 , 11 ] , despite the absence of dppa3 expression ( figure 2b ) .
third , histological examination of the gonad of dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht adult reveal no morphological defect ; spermatogenesis in male and ovarian follicle development in female appear to be normal ( figure 2c , 2d ) .
finally , we obtain fertile dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht mouse of both sex ( though litter from dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht female be small , a describe below ) .
each of these finding demonstrate that the dppa3 gene be not require for germ cell specification .
figure 2
normal germ cell development in the absence of dppa3 .
a , gonad from e12.5 embryo ( above : wild type ; below : dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht ) stain for alkaline phosphatase to reveal primordial germ cell .
b , rt - pcr analysis of gene expression in wild - type and dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht adult ovary .
c , d , dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht testis ( c ) and ovary ( d ) be histologically normal .
moreover , this function be not readily ascribe to a gene closely related to dppa3 .
we electronically search the sequence mouse genome for dppa3 homologues .
we identify several process ( intron - less ) pseudogenes of dppa3 , but no functional , full - length homologue .
a judge by rt - pcr analysis , the dppa3 pseudogenes be not express in embryonic or adult tissue ( data not show ) .
dppa3 be a potent maternal factor
we find that dppa3 play an important role in early embryonic development a a maternal factor .
while dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht male be fully fertile , dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht female have small litter .
this be true regardless of whether such female be cross with dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht , dppa3tm1wht / + or wild type male ( 3.5 ± 1.5 , 3.1 ± 2.1 , or 3.0 ± 0.9 viable pup / litter , respectively ) .
by contrast , dppa3tm1wht / + female of the same ( mixed ) genetic background have large litter when mat to dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht or dppa3tm1wht / + male ( 9.4 ± 3.5 or 10.1 ± 3.2 viable pup / litter , respectively ) .
we attribute the small litter from dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht mother to abnormality that manifest early in embryogenesis , during the cleavage stage of pre-implantation development .
while nearly all embryo derive from dppa3 - deficient oocyte develop to the 2 - cell or 4 - cell stage ( figure 3a , 3b , 3c , 3d ) , subsequent development be severely compromise in most such embryo ( figure 3e , 3f ) .
some embryo derive from dppa3 - deficient oocyte fail to reach the 8 - cell stage and instead show evidence of compaction at the 4 - cell stage .
other embryo derive from dppa3 - deficient oocyte cleave to form 8 to 16 blastomere , but fail to compact ( figure 3e , 3f ) .
these observation suggest that maternally supply dppa3 function be important in the cleavage stage of pre-implantation development .
figure 3
abnormal pre-implantation development of embryo derive from dppa3 – deficient oocyte .
a , c , cultured 2 - cell ( a ) and 4 - cell ( c ) control embryo derive from wild - type mating .
b , d , culture 2 - cell ( b ) and 4 - cell ( d ) embryo produce by cross dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht female with wild - type male .
e , f , e3.5 control embryo derive from wild - type mating have progress to the blastocyst stage ( e ) .
by contrast , most e3.5 embryo produce by cross dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht female with wild - type male have not progress to the blastocyst stage and instead cleave abnormally and degenerate ( f ) .
g , h , many embryo produce by cross dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht female with dppa3 + / + , tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht / tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht male fail to develop normally beyond the 4 - cell stage ( g ) but nonetheless express the oct4 - gfp marker ( h ) .
might maternal dppa3 induce zygotic expression of oct4 / pou5f1 , which encode a transcription factor that be crucial to pre-implantation development [ 10 , 12 ] ?
to test this possibility , we cross dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht female with dppa3 + / + , tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht / tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht male , the latter transmit an oct4 - gfp transgene , with the oct4 promoter drive expression of gfp .
we retrieve the result embryo at the 2 - cell stage and culture them in vitro for 72 hour to monitor expression of the oct4 - gfp transgene .
all such embryo be observe to express the fluorescent marker , regardless of the degree to which the embryo develop or fail to develop during the culture period ( figure 3g , 3h ) .
thus , the poor development of many embryo derive from dppa3 - deficient oocyte can not be attribute to the absence of zygotic expression of oct4 .
further analysis of the maternal - effect phenotype of dppa3 should illuminate the molecular and biological context and consequence of the gene 's activity .
conclusion
we conclude that dppa3 be not require for germ cell specification in mouse .
the identity of the mammalian gene or gene that program germ cell remain an open question .
dppa3 appear to function a a maternal factor , with an important role early in embryogenesis , during cleavage .
method
generation of dppa3 - deficient animal
the dppa3 target construct contain 1.3 - kb and 3 - kb segment of mouse genomic dna , the former locate 5 ' of dppa3 's translation initiation site and the latter locate 3 ' of the termination codon ( figure 1 ) .
at the center of the construct be a 3 - kb hygromycin - thymidine kinase selection cassette ( hygro - tk ) flank by two loxp direct repeat .
v6.5 ( c57bl / 6 × 129 / sv ) f1 e cell [ 9 ] be transfected by electroporation , and recombine clone be select in the presence of hygromycin ( invitrogen ) .
correctly target clone be identify by long - distance genomic pcr .
the hygro - tk cassette be remove via transient transfection of e cell with a cre - express plasmid in the presence of ganciclovir ( sigma ) .
the final genomic structure of the result clone be verify by southern analysis .
two independently target e cell clone be microinjected into balb / c blastocyst to generate chimera .
animal use in this study be of a mix c57bl / 6 × 129 / sv genetic background .
primer for pcr genotyping be a follow : p1 ( 5 ' tag cct ggg ggt aga ctc ggc tgt at 3 ' ) ; p2 ( 5 ' aac gag aag aga agg gag ggc ttc 3 ' ) ; and p3 ( 5 ' tca cat aaa tct gga tcg ttg tgc atc 3 ' ) .
the wild type allele give rise to a pcr product of 304 bp with primer p1 and p2 .
the mutant allele ( dppa3tm1wht ) give rise to a pcr product of 492 bp with primer p1 and p3 .
rna isolation and rt - pcr
total rna be isolate from mouse tissue , and expression of dppa3 , oct4 , and gapd be assay by rt - pcr , all a describe previously [ 8 ] .
alkaline phosphatase staining of primordial germ cell
gonad be dissect from wild type and dppa3tm1wht / dppa3tm1wht embryo on day 12.5 of gestation and stain for alkaline phosphatase a describe previously [ 13 ] .
histology
dissect adult testis and ovary be fix overnight in bouin 's solution , imbed in paraffin , section , and stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
generation of oct4 - gfp transgenic animal
mouse bear an oct4 - gfp transgene be generate by microinjection of a 14 - kb oct4 δ pe - gfp linear dna fragment into c57bl / 6 × sjl f2 hybrid mouse egg .
this construct essentially reproduce the previously describe gof18 δ pe - lacz construct [ 14 ] but contain a gene for enhance green fluorescent protein ( egfp , clontech ) in place of lacz at the atg of oct4 .
mouse bear transgene tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht accurately reproduce the previously report oct4 expression pattern [ 14 ] and be breed to generate tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht / tg ( pou5f1 δ pe - gfp ) 10wht homozygous animal .
isolation , culture and analysis of cleavage stage embryo
2 - cell embryo be flush from oviduct at e1.5 and culture for up to 72 hour in microdrops of ksom ( specialty medium ) under light mineral oil ( squibb ) with 5 % co2 in air .
e3.5 embryo be flush from uterus .
author ' contribution
ab conduct molecular biological , e cell culture and embryological study , and co-wrote the manuscript .
mg carry out blastocyst injection .
ml assist in mouse and embryological study .
dp coordinate the study and co-wrote the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
a.b. be a leukemia & lymphoma society special fellow .
support by the howard hughes medical institute .
target disruption of cubilin reveal essential developmental role in the structure and function of endoderm and in somite formation
abstract
background
cubilin be a peripheral membrane protein that interact with the integral membrane protein megalin and amnionless to mediate ligand endocytosis by absorptive epithelium such a the extraembryonic visceral endoderm ( ve ) .
result
here we report the effect of the genetic deletion of cubilin on mouse embryonic development .
cubilin gene deletion be homozygous embryonic lethal with death occur between 7.5 – 13.5 day post coitum ( dpc ) .
cubilin - deficient embryo display developmental retardation and do not advance morphologically beyond the gross appearance of wild - type 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo .
while mesodermal structure such a the allantois and the heart be form in cubilin mutant , other mesoderm - derive tissue be anomalous or absent .
yolk sac blood island be form in cubilin mutant but be unusually large , and the yolk sac blood vessel fail to undergo remodeling .
furthermore , somite formation do not occur in cubilin mutant .
morphological abnormality of endoderm occur in cubilin mutant and include a stratify epithelium in place of the normally simple columnar ve epithelium and a stratify cuboidal epithelium in place of the normally simple squamous epithelium of the definitive endoderm .
cubilin - deficient ve be also functionally defective , unable to mediate uptake of maternally derive high - density lipoprotein ( hdl ) .
conclusion
in summary , cubilin be require for embryonic development and be essential for the formation of somite , definitive endoderm and ve and for the absorptive function of ve include the process of maternal - embryo transport of hdl .
background
cubilin be a 460 - kda peripheral membrane protein express by a number of absorptive epithelial cell include those of the renal proximal convolute tubule , ileum and yolk sac extraembryonic visceral endoderm ( ve ) [ 1 ] .
the first describe function of cubilin be a the receptor for intrinsic factor - vitamin b12 / cobalamin ( cbl ) , serve a critical role in the intestinal absorption of cbl [ 2 , 3 ] .
cubilin be later show to be an endocytic receptor for apolipoprotein a - i ( apoa - i ) / high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) , mediate uptake of hdl in the kidney and ve [ 4 , 5 ] .
other cubilin ligand include albumin , transferrin , immunoglobulin light chain , vitamin d - bind protein , myoglobin , galectin - 3 and clara cell secretory protein [ 6 ] .
three cell surface integral membrane protein have be show to interact with cubilin .
the first identify be megalin , an endocytic receptor belong to the low density lipoprotein receptor ( ldlr ) family [ 7 , 8 ] .
megalin function together with cubilin to mediate endocytosis of apoa - i / hdl , presumably facilitate endocytosis of the cubilin - apoa - i / hdl complex .
the cation - independent mannose 6 - phosphate / insulin - like growth factor ii - receptor ( cimpr ) be another endocytic receptor that bind to cubilin [ 9 ] , although the functional significance of it interaction with cubilin remain to be establish .
the ~ 48 - kda type i transmembrane protein , amnionless ( amn ) , be the most recent integral membrane protein find to interact with cubilin [ 10 ] .
amn be essential for efficient transport of cubilin to the apical cell surface as well a for membrane anchoring of cubilin [ 11 , 12 ] ,
give the fact that cubilin be express by trophectoderm and ve [ 13 , 14 ] , it be believe to play an important role in maternal - embryonic transport of nutrient .
several additional piece of evidence support this hypothesis .
first , cubilin have be show to mediate ve uptake of holoparticle hdl , hdl - associate cholesterol and apolipoprotein a - i [ 8 , 14 ] .
furthermore , the work of sahali et al. [ 15 ] demonstrate that cubilin monoclonal antibody infuse into circulation of pregnant rat ( 9 dpc ) , bind to ve cubilin and induce a spectrum of developmental abnormality and embryonic resorption within 24 – 48 hour of infusion .
the abnormality include retard embryonic growth , craniofacial defect involve the eye , ear and neural tube , hydrocephaly and telencephalic hypoplasia .
similarly , growth retardation and morphological anomaly be obtain when rat embryo ( 10 dpc ) be culture ex utero in the presence of cubilin antibody [ 16 ] .
here we characterize the consequence of target deletion of the mouse cubilin gene on embryonic development .
result
generation of cubilin - / - mouse
to generate mouse with target disruption of the cubilin gene ( and concomitant knock - in of the egfp reporter gene ) we clone and fully map the exon - intron structure of the 5 ' portion of the murine cubilin gene .
a mouse cubilin gene - target vector be design to create a null mutation through deletion of exon 1 – 6 ( fig. 1 ) .
after electroporation of the construct and g418 positive selection and fiau negative selection , ten e clone ( out of 132 screen ) be identify that have the desire recombination base on southern analysis ( use both upstream and downstream flanking probe ) ( fig. 1 ) .
target e clone be inject into c57bl / 6j blastocyst and the blastocyst be transfer to foster mother to obtain chimeric mouse .
two male chimera be obtain from the first target e cell line test and find to be germ line competent through the generation of heterozygous offspring .
a show in figure 1c , southern analysis confirm that offspring from one of these mouse contain the properly target cubilin allele .
figure 1
target deletion of the mouse cubilin gene .
a , be a diagram of the structural and functional domain of cubilin .
ligand binding region indicate in the diagram be base on publish study [ 12 , 33 , 34 ] .
b , be a diagram of the gene target strategy show the organization of cubilin gene exon ( vertical line in uppermost model and rectangle in expand region show below ) , the wild - type and target allele and the location of 5 ' and 3 ' dna probe use for southern blot analysis .
white portion of box exon depict untranslated sequence .
the promoter - less egfp ( contain kozak and atg sequence ) and loxp - floxed neor cassette be insert into exon 1 , 33 bp upstream of the cubilin atg and 16 bp downstream from the proximal - most transcription initiation site , result in a replacement of the majority of exon 1 .
homologous recombination between the target construct and the cubilin locus result in deletion of exon 1 coding sequence and all of exon 2 – 6 .
c , southern analysis of hindiii / hhai and bglii digest dna from representative wild - type ( wt ) and target ( - / + ) e cell clone use 5 ' and 3 ' probe ( left and right panel , respectively ) .
the wild - type allele yield a 7 kb band and the knockout allele yield a 5.5 kb band when genomic dna be digest with hindiii and hhai and hybridize with the 5 ' probe .
additionally , the wild - type allele yield an 11.3 kb band and the knockout allele yield a 7 kb band when genomic dna be digest with bglii and hybridize with the 3 ' probe .
the result show that the correct recombinant allele be present in the select e cell clone .
d , southern analysis of bglii digest tail dna from a wild - type ( wt ) and a correctly target heterozygous ( - / + ) mouse .
the cubilin exon 1 – 6 deletion lead to embryonic lethality
genotypic analysis be perform on 220 offspring from heterozygous intercross mating .
a a result , 100 wild - type , 120 heterozygous and no homozygous offspring be detect ( table 1 ) .
these non-mendelian ratio indicate that lethality occur in embryo homozygous for the target cubilin gene deletion .
furthermore , since the frequency of heterozygote at 4 week be much low than expect ( 1 : 1 versus the expect 2 : 1 heterozygous : wild - type ratio ) , embryonic lethality appear to be occur in some heterozygote .
to substantiate this possibility we perform genotypic analysis of 181 4 - wk offspring from wild - type × heterozygote mating .
a a result , 109 wild - type and 72 heterozygous offspring be detect .
base on a chi - square test of these data and a result p value = 0.0074 , the data be consistent with the hypothesis that haploinsufficiency of cubilin cause embryonic lethality , although with incomplete penetrance .
table i
genotype frequency of progeny from heterozygote ( cubilin exon1 – 6 + / - ) mating
asterisk indicate that the chi - square test be base on a 1 : 2 ratio of wild - type to heterozygote offspring .
retrograde genotypic analysis be perform on embryo from heterozygous intercross mating ( table 1 ) .
at 7.5 dpc homozygous embryo be obtain at a frequency consistent with a normal mendelian ratio .
from 8.5 – 10.5 dpc , homozygous embryo be detect , but not at a frequency in accordance with mendelian expectation ( table 1 ) .
after 13.5 dpc , no homozygous embryo be detect .
together , these finding indicate that homozygous embryo die over a range of developmental stage between 7.5 to 13.5 dpc .
consistent with this conclusion be the relatively high number of embryo resorption observe after 7.5 dpc ( table 1 ) .
to establish that embryo homozygous for the target cubilin gene deletion of exon 1 – 6 be indeed cubilin null , rt - pcr analysis be perform use two primer pair design to amplify separate 5 ' and 3 ' region of the cubilin transcript .
no cubilin mrna be detectable by either primer pair use rna isolate from homozygous 8.5 dpc embryo ( fig. 2 ) .
furthermore , immunohistological analysis confirm that there be no cubilin detectable in paraffin embed section of homozygous 8.5 dpc embryo ( data not show ) .
figure 2
embryo homozygous for target deletion of cubilin do not express cubilin transcript .
show be rt - pcr analysis of the expression of cubilin transcript in rna from heterozygous ( + / - ) and null ( - / - ) 8.5 dpc embryo .
in a , a primer pair correspond to a 5 ' region of the cubilin transcript be use to assess cubilin transcript expression .
in b , a primer pair correspond to a 3 ' region of the cubilin transcript be use to assess cubilin transcript expression .
developmental retardation and mesodermal defect of homozygous embryo
morphological analysis of 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo reveal that homozygous embryo be considerably small than wild - type or heterozygous littermates ( fig. 3 ) .
mutant 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo be morphologically similar to wild - type 7.5 dpc embryo .
however , rather than exhibit a normal cylindrical shape , mutant 8 – 8.5 embryo appear acorn shape owe to a relatively small embryonic component a compare to extraembryonic component .
figure 3
cubilin deficient 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo display growth retardation with formation of some mesodermal structure , but not somite .
show be wild - type ( a ) , heterozygous ( b ) and homozygous 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo ( c - e ) , derive from a heterozygous intercross mating .
embryo in a and b have be dissect to lie in a planar configuration where a embryo in c - d be intact .
show in f and g be h & e stain section of 8.5 dpc wild - type ( f ) and mutant ( g ) embryo .
mutant 8.5 dpc embryo possess an allantois and amnion , but lack somite .
a , allantois ; am , amnion ; s , somite .
bar in a - g = 100 μm .
histological examination of null 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo reveal that all mutant embryo undergo gastrulation , but do not form somite ( fig. 3f and 3g ) .
in contrast , 8 – 8.5 dpc wild - type littermates have form 3 – 9 somite .
other mesodermal structure do form in the 8 – 8.5 dpc mutant , albeit with some variability .
for example , an allantois be present in 5 of 7 mutant 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo examine .
most mutant embryo ( 5 of 7 ) also have an amnion and chorion , tissue have mesoderm component .
while blood island form in the yolk sac of all 8 – 8.5 dpc mutant they appear unusually large , extend into the exocoelomic cavity to a great extent than wild - type blood island ( fig. 4 ) .
such blood island appear to have a large than normal number of mesodermal cell .
additionally , blood island hematopoietic development appear to be retarded a evidence by the failure of the cell to exhibit the characteristic rounded hematopoietic cell morphology ( fig. 4 ) .
figure 4
enlargement of blood island in cubilin mutant .
show be h & e stain section of an 8 – 8.5 dpc wild - type ( a ) and mutant ( b ) embryo .
c and d show high magnification view of blood island from embryo show in a and b .
embryo in panel a and b be orient such that anterior be to the right and posterior be to the left .
bi , blood island .
bar in a and b = 100 μm .
bar in c and d = 25 μm .
by 9.5 dpc , survive homozygous embryo have not undergo axial rotation but display an overall morphological appearance of wild - type 8 – 8.5 - dpc embryo ( fig. 5 ) .
mutant 9.5 dpc embryo have form a primitive heart and neural head fold ( 4 of 4 null examine ) ( fig. 5 ) and paired dorsal aorta ( data not show ) , but lack somite .
homozygous embryo survive beyond 9.5 dpc ( i.e. , 11.5 dpc ) be also grossly similar to wild - type 8.0 dpc embryo , but still lack somite ( data not show ) .
together these finding indicate that lack of cubilin result in developmental retardation that initiate prior to 8.0 dpc , and a failure to achieve developmental milestone appropriate for a wild - type 8.0 dpc embryo , most notably , failure to form somite .
the complete lack of somite at 9.5 dpc suggest that the basis be due to some defect of the paraxial mesoderm rather than merely be a consequence of retard development .
figure 5
cubilin - deficient 9.5 dpc embryo be developmentally retarded and lack somite .
a show a wild - type 9.5 dpc embryo and b a mutant littermate .
nf , neural fold ; a , allantois ; h , heart ; y , yolk sac .
bar in a and b = 200 μm .
it be important to note that embryo confirm by genotyping to be heterozygous be indistinguishable morphologically from wild - type littermates over a range of stage examine extend from 7 – 11.5 dpc ( fig. 3b ) .
this indicate that the lethality of heterozygous embryo , apparent from genotypic analysis , be occur beyond 11.5 dpc .
failure of yolk sac blood vessel to undergo remodeling
to assess the effect on blood vessel formation , embryo from heterozygous mating be immunolabeled with anti-pecam - 1 .
a show in figure 6a , yolk sac blood vessel formation in 9.5 dpc mutant appear retarded a compare to wild - type littermates ( fig. 6b ) .
normally by 9.5 dpc the yolk sac vessel of the wild - type embryo have undergo remodeling to form large diameter vessel ( fig. 6b , inset ) .
by contrast , the pattern of yolk sac vascular development in 9.5 dpc mutant appear a an interconnect network of small diameter blood vessel ( fig. 6a ) , a pattern similar to that see in an 8.5 dpc wild - type embryo yolk sac .
in some area of the extraembryonic yolk sac , pecam - 1 labeling often show enlarge sinusoidal - like vessel ( data not show ) , which be consistent with the enlarge blood island - like structure observe in h & e stain section ( fig. 4 ) .
figure 6
yolk sac blood vessel of 9.5 dpc cubilin mutant fail to undergo remodeling .
anti-pecam - 1 - label vasculature in a 9.5 dpc homozygous embryo ( a ) , a 9.5 dpc wild - type ( wt ) embryo ( littermate to that show in a ) ( b ) , 8.5 dpc wild - type embryo ( c ) and 11.5 dpc homozygous embryo ( d ) .
the inset panel in b show a high magnification view of the remodel yolk sac vasculature in the box region of the 9.5 dpc wild - type yolk sac .
y , yolk sac ; a , allantois ; nf , neural fold ; h , heart .
bar in a and b = 500 μm .
bar in c and d = 200 μm .
when the pecam - 1 - label yolk sac vasculature of 11.5 dpc mutant be compare to that of wild - type embryo it be again evident that the blood vessel of homozygous embryo have not progress beyond that of 8.5 dpc wild - type embryo .
a show in figure 6d , yolk sac blood vessel of an 11.5 dpc mutant have not undergo the remodeling that normally occur after 8.5 dpc .
in addition to the yolk sac vascular remodeling anomaly , the allantoic vasculature of 11.5 dpc mutant be aberrant .
instead of a branch central blood vessel normally present in an 8.5 dpc embryo [ 17 ] , the allantoic blood vessel of 11.5 dpc mutant be bulbous and lack branching ( fig. 6d ) .
since this abnormality be not observe in 9.5 dpc mutant , it can be conclude that dysmorphogenesis of the allantoic vasculature occur after 9.5 dpc and perhaps contribute to a chorioallantoic placental defect .
abnormality of embryonic and visceral endoderm in cubilin mutant
consider that cubilin be normally present on the apical surface of the columnar ve ( from 6.0 dpc to at least 9.5 dpc ) and on a population of the squamous cell within the embryonic endoderm ( ee ) ( from 7.3 – 8.0 dpc ) [ 13 ] , we next evaluate the impact of cubilin deficiency on these embryonic endodermal tissue .
examination of homozygous 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo reveal a number of endodermal anomaly ( fig. 7 ) .
in place of a normal squamous definitive endoderm ( fig. 7c ) , the mutant embryo have both cuboidal and columnar cell arrange in a stratify cuboidal epithelium ( fig. 7d , arrow ) as well a simple columnar epithelium ( not show ) .
additionally , mutant cell in these epithelium have apical process that may be either microvilli or cilium .
such luminal surface structure be normally not find on ee cell .
base on the finding , the absence of cubilin inhibit the formation of an epithelium morphologically comparable to that of a normal definitive endoderm at this stage , however , it remain to be determine whether this be a result of a defect in the specification and differentiation of the definitive endoderm .
figure 7
cubilin mutant display anomaly in the epithelial morphology of embryonic endoderm .
show be h & e stain section of wild - type ( a , c and e ) and mutant ( b , d and f ) 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo .
embryo in panel a and b be orient such that anterior be to the right and posterior be to the left .
bi , blood island ; s , somite ; ee , definitive embryonic endoderm ; ve , yolk sac visceral endoderm , asterisk point to aberrant epithelium in place of the normal ee .
bar in a - f = 100 μm .
examination of the ve of homozygous 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo reveal it to also be morphologically abnormal .
in contrast to the simple columnar ve of normal embryo , the ve of cubilin mutant be a stratify epithelium , comprise of cuboidal and columnar cell .
furthermore , mutant ve cell also lack the large apical vacuole that be characteristic of ve cell ( fig. 7e and 7f ) .
give the morphological similarity between the cell of mutant embryonic endoderm there be not a discernable demarcation between the normally distinct ee and ve epithelium .
however , a clear demarcation between the ve and an epithelium that would normally be ee be evident upon immunohistological analysis of gfp reporter expression ( from the egfp cassette insert into the cubilin gene ) and megalin expression in mutant 8.0 dpc embryo ( fig. 8 ) .
this indicate that although be morphologically similar , the ve and presume ee of mutant be distinct at the molecular level .
furthermore , the fact that megalin be appropriately express on the apical surface of the mutant ve indicate that cubilin be not require to direct cell surface trafficking of megalin .
figure 8
green fluorescent protein and megalin expression in yolk sac visceral endoderm of mutant embryo .
the cubilin gene targeting strategy ( see fig. 1 ) create a gfp reporter for cubilin locus expression .
show in a be an h & e stain section of a homozygous 8.0 dpc embryo .
show in b be anti-gfp fluorescence of a serial section to the one show in a .
note that cell within the blood island be express the gfp reporter .
show in c be an anti-megalin stain 8.0 dpc mutant embryo .
embryo in panel a - b be orient such that anterior be to the left and posterior be to the right .
the embryo in c be orient with anterior to the right and posterior to the left .
ve , yolk sac visceral endoderm ; bi , blood island ; am , amnion ; asterisk , point to the boundary of the ve and presume ee .
the visceral endoderm of homozygous embryo do not mediate uptake of maternal - derive hdl
a normal function of ve be to mediate uptake of maternal - derive hdl [ 8 ] .
we therefore evaluate the capacity of cubilin - deficient ve to mediate uptake of maternal - derive hdl .
a show in figure 9 , the ve of heterozygous 8.0 dpc embryo from dii - hdl - infuse mother show strong dii labeling within ve cell .
dii label in these embryo be present exclusively in ve which be the only yolk sac endodermal component express cubilin a evidence by expression of the cubilin gene reporter , egfp .
by contrast , there be no detectable dii labeling of the ve of homozygous embryo ( fig. 9d – f ) .
these finding indicate that ve uptake of hdl be a cubilin dependent process .
figure 9
maternally derive hdl be not take up by the yolk sac visceral endoderm of cubilin - deficient embryo .
show be confocal micrographs of a heterozygous 8.0 dpc embryo ( a - c ) and a homozygous littermate ( d - f ) isolate 1 hour after dii - hdl be infuse into the mother .
the distal portion of the ve be remove from all embryo show .
ve , visceral endoderm ; ee , embryonic endoderm .
discussion
consider that cubilin form a complex with amn ( form the cubam complex ) , that amn and cubilin be co-expressed in absorptive epithelial include the ve [ 11 ] , and that amn be require to mediate key aspect of cubilin function ( e.g. , membrane association , apical sorting ) [ 11 , 12 ] , it be not surprising that the phenotype of amn - deficient mutant [ 18 ] closely resemble that of the cubilin null describe .
like the cubilin null embryo , amn - deficient embryo display arrest development , with most mutant not advance morphologically beyond a normal 8 – 8.5 dpc embryo .
on a mix 129sv / c57bl / 6 genetic background , both mutant form an amnion .
general mesoderm formation in the cubilin and amn mutant embryo appear normal in that both mutant form an allantois , blood island , yolk sac blood vessel and a heart .
however , both mutant fail to form somite , indicate that somitogenesis be in some manner defective ( e.g. , insufficient paraxial mesoderm or defective condensation and / or segmentation ) .
both mutant also display endoderm defect a evidence by the inability of cubilin - deficient ve to facilitate uptake of maternal hdl and the inability of amn - deficient ve and ee to support wild - type epiblast development in chimeric embryo [ 18 ] .
the morphological abnormality of ve and definitive endoderm observe in the cubilin mutant also highlight the importance of cubilin in formation and / or maintenance of these epithelium .
such morphological abnormality be not report in the phenotype of amn - deficient mutant .
it remain to be establish whether cubilin and amn be play role in the specification and differentiation of the definitive endoderm , which form during gastrulation by the recruitment of epiblast cell through the primitive streak [ 19 ] .
the close similarity between the phenotype of mouse amn and cubilin mutant also suggest that both gene act co-operatively in the ve to support embryonic growth and to control the formation of paraxial mesoderm .
how amn and cubilin mechanistically mediate these process remain to be resolve .
the endocytic function of the cubam complex and it apical expression in ve support the possibility that it function in the transport of vital maternal nutrient / factor .
the spectrum of maternally derive nutrient / factor transport by ve cubam be potentially quite broad consider the multi-ligand binding capacity of cubilin which include albumin , transferrin , immunoglobulin light chain , vitamin d - bind protein , myoglobin , galectin - 3 , clara cell secretory protein , apoa - i and hdl [ 6 ] .
furthermore , at least one cubilin ligand , hdl , be a complex of multiple factor include apolipoproteins , phospholipid , cholesterol and lipid soluble vitamin such a retinol , which be convert to retinoic acid through the action of retinaldehyde dehydrogenase - 2 ( raldh2 ) .
indeed , genetic deficiency of mouse raldh2 lead to early embryo lethality ( ~ 10.5 dpc ) , absence or reduction in somite , yolk sac vascular defect , enlarge heart and a failure of embryo to undergo axial rotation [ 20 , 21 ] , all similar to cubilin and amn mutant .
by contrast to the developmental anomaly and early lethality of the cubilin and amnionless null , megalin - deficient mouse die perinatally and display abnormal morphogenesis of the forebrain ( e.g. , holoprosencephaly ) , lung and kidney [ 22 ] .
thus , despite the evidence that megalin function together with cubilin and that it be co-expressed with cubilin in the ve [ 13 ] , any joint function that these two protein may have in the early embryo be evidently not vital .
interestingly , mouse deficient in disabled - 2 ( dab2 ) , an adaptor of megalin , display several of the abnormality observe in cubilin null include disorganization of the ve and loss of apical vesicle [ 23 ] .
however , dab2 - / - mutant arrest earlier in development than do cubilin null and do not undergo gastrulation .
dab2 have also be show to be require for cubilin endocytosis in ve [ 24 ] .
the early lethality of dab2 null embryo may be an indication that numerous endocytic receptor express in the ve include megalin , cubilin and perhaps amnionless be dependent on dab2 .
the importance of maternal derive lipoprotein a a source of cholesterol for normal development be well establish [ 25 ] .
through the use of cubilin antagonist , the ability of cubilin to mediate ve uptake of holoparticle hdl , hdl - associate cholesterol and apoa - i have be demonstrate in mouse embryo culture in vitro [ 8 , 14 ] .
our finding provide in vivo evidence that early ( 8.0 dpc ) embryonic uptake of hdl from the maternal circulation be a cubilin - dependent process of the ve .
give the fact that the ve express apoa - i and the major ldl constituent , apob [ 26 ] , it be likely that cholesterol and other maternal hdl - derive constituent take up by ve cell via cubilin be incorporate into new hdl and ldl particle and subsequently deliver to the embryo .
in support of this , there be evidence that nascent lipoprotein particle have be localize to the rough endoplasmic reticulum and secretory vesicle of the 9.5 dpc mouse yolk sac and see in the pericellular space underlie the endoderm [ 27 ] .
despite the fact that cubilin and amn deficiency in mouse lead to embryonic lethality , mutation in human and canine amn that cause impair apical targeting [ 28 ] and function ( i.e. , malabsorption of vitamin b12 ) of the cubam complex , nevertheless have no effect on embryonic development .
one explanation for this apparent paradox may relate to the fact that there be specie difference in yolk sac function in rodent , dog and human .
another explanation come from the study of tanner et al. [ 29 ] who have show that mutation affect exon 1 – 4 of human amn ( omim 261100 , megaloblastic anemia , mga1 ) do not prevent the production variant transcript and polypeptide result from alternative transcriptional start site and alternative translation initiation site .
indeed , the two amn mutant that cause premature termination of translation ( 14δg and 208 - 2a→g ) also express an alternative amn polypeptide of 40 kda and several minor specie of 44 , 42 and 38 kda [ 29 ] .
all of the alternative amn polypeptide would contain the chordin - like module , transmembrane domain and cytoplasmic domain , but would lack various length of the amino terminal portion of the full - length protein .
while these alternative polypeptide apparently be miss region require for vitamin b12 uptake , they evidently confer enough normal function to sustain embryonic development .
how these alternative polypeptide function , particularly with respect to cubilin , remain to be establish .
one possibility be that they retain the ability to mediate trafficking of cubilin to the apical surface of epithelial cell .
however , mutation of the canine amn gene that disrupt cubilin intracellular trafficking have no apparent effect on embryonic development [ 28 ] .
it be not known whether the canine amn mutant express alternative amn polypeptide similar to those observe in human .
if so , it be possible that the polypeptide possess some activity that overcome the need for apical expression of the cubam complex to mediate normal development .
conclusion
the present study reveal an indispensable role for cubilin in mouse embryogenesis particularly in the formation of endoderm and somite .
the finding also highlight the importance of cubilin in the process of maternal - embryo transport of hdl by the ve .
method
targeting vector design and generation of mutant mouse
degenerate deoxyoligonucleotide primer 5 ' - cticaccarccicgiatg - 3 ' and 5 ' - ccrttrratytcrcaytc - 3 ' be synthesize base on cdna sequence conserve in the 5 ' region of both rat cubilin ( gi : 24475743 ) and human cubilin ( gi : 3929528 ) .
preparation of template cdna from adult mouse kidney total rna and pcr amplification be do use method describe previously [ 8 ] .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 94 ° c for 5 min and then 30 cycle of 94 ° c for 1 min , 46 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1.5 min .
the expect ~ 820 bp product be sequence and find to have 93 % identity with a 5 ' portion of the rat cdna sequence .
the mouse cubilin cdna be use a a probe to screen a 129 - strain mouse genomic library ( genome system , inc. ) and a bac clone ( 24267 ) be isolate .
dna sequencing of ~ 20 kb of the bac clone be perform to characterize the intron - exon organization of the 5 ' portion of the cubilin gene , include the region contain exon 1 – 10 .
a search of genbank show that the sequence of bac clone 24267 be contain within the mouse chromosome 2 genomic contig gi : 82796355 .
the 3 ' arm of cubilin replacement - type targeting vector be construct from a 5.4 - kb ecori fragment contain exon 7 and 8 of the mouse cubilin gene .
the 5 ' arm be construct from a 4.3 kb apai - naei fragment contain cubilin exon 1 disrupt by insertion of a enhance green fluorescent protein ( egfp ) - n1 ( clontech , mountain view , ca ) , neor ( loxp floxed ) cassette 33 nucleotide 5 ' to the first atg ( see additional file 1 ) .
a tk negative selection cassette be place at the 5 ' end of this construct .
the result targeting vector be linearize by noti digestion and electroporated into murine 129 / sv - strain embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
after electroporation of the construct and g418 positive selection and 1 - ( 2 - deoxy - 2 - fluoro - 8 - d - arabinofuranosyl ) - 5 - iodouracil ( fiau ) negative selection , clone have the desire homologous recombination be identify by southern analysis ( fig. 1c ) .
one of the target e clone be inject into c57bl / 6j blastocyst that be then transfer to foster mother to obtain chimeric mouse .
two male chimera be obtain that be germ line competent .
southern analysis confirm that offspring from these mouse contain the properly target cubilin allele .
mouse use in this study be maintain on a mix 129sv / c57bl / 6 genetic background .
genotype of progeny from heterozygote intercrosses be determine by pcr .
for embryo between 7.5 and 8.5 day postcoitum ( dpc ) dna be isolate from the whole embryo and use in pcr .
for embryo between 9.5 and 14.5 dpc , dna for genotyping be isolate from the yolk sac .
two primer pair be use for pcr - base genotyping .
to detect the wild - type cubilin allele , pcr be perform with tail clip genomic dna preparation use a cubilin sense strand primer , 5 ' - gccaagtagaccaggctgac - 3 ' ( residue 10422223 – 10422242 in gi : 82796355 , and an antisense strand primer , 5 ' - gcttctgagcccagtgaaac - 3 ' ( residue 10422576 – 10422595 in gi : 82796355 ) .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 55 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 373 bp .
to detect the target cubilin allele , pcr reaction be perform with an egfp sense strand primer , 5 ' - cctgaagttcatctgcacca - 3 ' ( residue 810 – 829 in gi : 1377911 ) , and egfp antisense strand primer 5 ' - tgctcaggtagtggttgtcg - 3 ' ( residue 1288 – 1269 in gi : 1377911 ) .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 55 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 478 bp .
for embryo from intercross heterozygous mating that be paraffin embed within maternal tissue , the assignment of ' mutant ' be base on two criterion : 1 ) by the absence of immunologically detectable cubilin ( anti-cubilin t - 16 from santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , ca ) in section of the paraffin embed embryo ; and 2 ) the distinct mutant morphological phenotype correspond to that of embryo confirm by genotypic analysis to be homozygous null .
immunohistochemistry and histology
embryo be harvest from pregnant female follow time cubilin + / - intercross mating , and fix for 40 min in 4 % paraformaldehyde / pb .
hematoxylin and eosin ( h & e ) staining of paraffin embed embryo section ( 7 μm ) be perform use standard technique .
whole - mount immunohistochemistry for the pecam1 / cd31 be perform a describe previously [ 30 ] .
antibody to pecam ( clone mec - 13.3 ) be purchase from bd pharmingen ( san diego , ca ) .
for gfp and megalin immunohistological staining , section be stain with rabbit antibody to gfp purchase from abcam ( cambridge , ma ) or rabbit megalin cytoplasmic domain antibody describe previously [ 13 ] .
fluorescently conjugate secondary antibody be purchase from jackson immunoresearch lab ( west grove , pa ) .
stain tissue section be analyze use a leica dmr research - grade microscope equip with leica objective and a spot - rt camera ( diagnostic instrument , sterling height , mi ) .
rt - pcr analysis
total rna be isolate from 8.5 dpc embryo from heterozygous mating use trizol ( invitrogen ) .
template cdna be prepare from 1 mg rna use superscript ii reverse transcriptase ( invitrogen ) .
to assess cubilin transcript level two set of pcr reaction be perform use a primer pair target the 5 ' end of the transcript and one target the 3 ' end .
the 5 ' primer pair consist of the forward primer 5 ' - atgatgatgaccttggcgaatg - 3 ' ( residue 275 – 296 ( exon 2 ) in gi : 94365995 ) and the reverse primer 5 ' - gcagccaaagggtgttccag - 3 ' ( residue 587 – 606 ( exon 6 ) in gi : 94365995 ) .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 58 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 332 bp .
the 3 ' primer pair consist of the forward primer 5 ' - tctcatacaccaactacccc - 3 ' ( residue 9221 – 9240 ( exon 58 ) in gi : 94365995 ) and the reverse primer 5 ' - agcagtcttgtgagggcagc - 3 ' ( residue 10041 – 10060 ( exon 62 ) in gi : 94365995 ) .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 58 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 840 bp .
to assess gapdh transcript level pcr be perform use a forward primer 5 ' - cggtgtgaacggatttggc - 3 ' ( residue 70 – 88 in gi : 47607489 ) and the reverse primer 5 ' - gcagtgatggcatggactgt - 3 ' ( residue 581 – 600 in gi : 47607489 ) .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 54 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 531 bp .
to assess b - actin transcript level a forward primer 5 ' - cgggacctgacagactacctc - 3 ' ( residue 627 – 647 in gi : 6671508 ) and the reverse primer 5 ' - aaccgctcgttgccaata - 3 ' ( residue 827 – 844 in gi : 6671508 ) be use .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 55 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 218 bp .
to assess egfp transcript level a forward primer 5 ' - acgtaaacggccacaagttc - 3 ' ( residue 743 – 762 in gi : 1377911 ) and the reverse primer 5 ' - aagtcgtgctgcttcatgtg - 3 ' ( residue 910 – 929 in gi : 1377911 ) be use .
cycling parameter for pcr amplification be : 98 ° c for 5 min and then 40 cycle of 98 ° c for 0.5 min , 58 ° c for 1 min and 72 ° c for 1 min .
the expect amplicon size be 187 bp .
analysis of embryonic uptake of maternal derive hdl
human dii - label hdl ( dii - hdl ) be purchase from biomedical technology ( stoughton , ma ) .
dii - hdl be deplete of apoe - hdl and other heparin - bind particle accord to oram [ 31 ] , dialyze against 150 mm nacl , 50 mm tris ph 7.4 ( tb ) contain 0.3 mm edta and filter - sterilize .
lipoprotein concentration be determine by bca protein assay ( pierce , rockford , il ) .
dii - hdl be dilute into pb to a final concentration of 0.265 mg protein / ml and 75 – 125 μl be infuse into the saphenous vein of pregnant heterozygous mouse at 8.0 dpc accord to the procedure of hem et al. [ 32 ] .
one hour after infusion , embryo be isolate free of parietal endoderm and analyze by confocal microscopy .
abbreviation
ve , visceral endoderm ; ee , embryonic endoderm ; am , amnion ; hdl , high density lipoprotein ; dii - hdl , dii - label hdl ; apoa - i , apolipoprotein a - i ; amn , amnionless ; cbl , cobalamin ; dpc , day postcoitum ; h & e , hematoxylin and eosin ; egfp , enhance green fluorescent protein .
author ' contribution
b. t. s. generate the targeting vector , carry out analysis of knockout mouse , contribute to experimental design and help draft the manuscript .
j. c. m. carry out morphological and genotypic analysis of the null embryo phenotype , maternal hdl transport experiment and writing of the manuscript .
p. a. f. assist with embryo isolation , immunohistological analysis and embryo imaging .
j. l. b. perform degenerate amplification of mouse cubilin 5 ' cdna sequence , isolate and characterize the bac use to generate the targeting vector and direct cubilin 5 ' race analysis .
m. a. c. assist with the design of the targeting vector .
d. d. s. perform vector electroporation , selection of target e cell , blastocyst injection and implantation .
c. j. d. assist with the phenotypic characterization of null embryo and writing of the manuscript .
w. s. a. conceive of the study , contribute to experimental design and interpretation of result , and coordinate the project and writing of the manuscript .
supplementary material
additional file 1
mapping of cubilin transcription initiation site .
the file contain finding from 5 ' race experiment use to position the egfp reporter sequence within the 5 ' utr of exon 1 of the reporter knock - in / ko targeting construct .
click here for file
acknowledgement
this work be support by nih grant hl061873 and de14347 ( wsa ) , hl57375 ( cjd ) and ca109958 ( dd ) as well a dod contract 4400122478 ( dd ) .
brian smith be a recipient of support from nih postdoctoral training grant t32 hl007710 .
jason mussell be a recipient of support from nih postdoctoral training grant t32 hl07260 .
we also acknowledge the musc gene targeting and knockout mouse core for assistance with the development of the cubilin knockout mouse .
enhance odor discrimination and impair olfactory memory by spatially control switch of ampa receptor
abstract
genetic perturbation of α - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolepropionate receptor ( ampars ) be widely use to dissect molecular mechanism of sensory coding , learning , and memory .
in this study , we investigate the role of ca2 + - permeable ampars in olfactory behavior .
ampar modification be obtain by depletion of the glur - b subunit or expression of unedited glur - b ( q ) , both lead to increase ca2 + permeability of ampars .
mouse with this functional ampar switch , specifically in forebrain , show enhance olfactory discrimination and more rapid learning in a go / no - go operant condition task .
olfactory memory , however , be dramatically impair .
glur - b depletion in forebrain be ectopically variable ( “ mosaic ” ) among individual and strongly correlate with decrease olfactory memory in hippocampus and cortex .
accordingly , memory be rescue by transgenic glur - b expression restrict to piriform cortex and hippocampus , while enhance odor discrimination be independent of both glur - b variability and transgenic glur - b expression .
thus , correlate difference in behavior and level of glur - b expression allow a mechanistic and spatial dissection of olfactory learning , discrimination , and memory capability .
introduction
the sense of smell be of paramount importance for rodent [ 1 ] , for which rapid odor discrimination and long - last olfactory memory permit response to predator and prey critical for survival .
consequently , the behavioral analysis of olfactory capability in rodent be efficient , quantitative , and reproducible [ 2 – 4 ] .
while in the formation and storage of olfactory memory piriform cortex [ 5 – 7 ] , hippocampus [ 8 , 9 ] , and olfactory bulb [ 10 – 12 ] be all implicate , the cellular correlate for these process have not be clearly delineate .
the contribution of the hippocampus to olfactory memory be presently controversial [ 2 , 13 – 18 ] , but be deem unlikely for simple olfactory discrimination task [ 9 , 19 ] .
in fact , the most likely candidate for a cellular correlate of olfactory memory appear to be the neuronal connection in the piriform cortex due to the associational connectivity [ 5 ] and the expression of several form of cellular and synaptic plasticity [ 7 , 20 – 23 ] .
concern odor discrimination itself , cellular mechanism for this process be often attribute to the inhibitory circuitry of the olfactory bulb ( [ 24 – 30 ] ; review in [ 31 – 33 ] ) .
lateral inhibitory circuit be postulate , in analogy to retina [ 34 , 35 ] , to mediate contrast enhancement [ 24 ] , for which physiological recording [ 24 , 36 , 37 ] and modeling data , base on the well - know anatomy [ 29 ] , provide additional support .
such contrast enhancement may rest in large part on the particular property of dendrodendritic synapsis between the principal output neuron ( mitral cell ) and local inhibitory neuron ( granule cell ) of the olfactory bulb .
in these distinct synapsis , lateral and recurrent inhibition mediate by the gamma - aminobutyric acid - a system may be control by the activity of the closely appositioned glutamatergic part , perhaps trigger increase gamma - aminobutyric acid release by ca2 + influx through glutamate - gate receptor channel ( [ 38 ] ; see also [ 39 ] ) .
give that neuronal circuit underlie odor discrimination , as well a olfactory memory , rely on property of fast excitatory neurotransmission mediate by α - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolepropionate receptor ( ampars ) , we seek to alter , by genetic mean , the specific functional contribution of α - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolepropionate ( ampa ) channel contain the dominant subunit glur - b .
of the four ampar constituent , glur - a to d ( glur1 to 4 ) , which form tetrameric channel with different binary subunit combination , glur - b be contain in the majority of ampars .
glur - b be critically involve in the formation and trafficking of ampars , and dominate their ion conductance and gating property [ 40 – 46 ] .
notably , the normally low ca2 + permeability of ampa channel in principal neuron be solely mediate by glur - b , due to a unique arginine residue ( r587 ) in the functionally critical glutamine / arginine ( q / r ) site of the pore - form segment m2 [ 44 , 47 , 48 ] , result from rna editing of glur - b pre-mrna ( [ 49 ] ; review in [ 50 ] ) .
hence , either glur - b deficiency , or the expression of q / r site - unedited glur - b with a glutamine residue at the critical channel site , lead to increase ca2 + permeability of ampa channel , a amply demonstrate in gene - target mouse [ 51 , 53 , 58 , 60 ] .
thus , the absence of glur - b , or the expression of glur - b ( q ) in the olfactory bulb , may generate increase inhibition in mitral cell .
moreover , the ablation of glur - b , but also change in the extent of q / r site editing of glur - b , can alter the strength of excitatory synaptic transmission in the genetically address neuronal population [ 51 , 58 , 60 ] , thus potentially shift the balance of excitatory and inhibitory transmission in the affect circuit .
similarly , change in synaptic plasticity due to ca2 + - permeable ampars [ 51 , 52 , 60 ] , e.g. , in piriform cortex , might alter odor memorization process .
thus , alteration of ampar property in these brain region will allow investigation and possibly separation of mechanism underlie these behavioral trait .
concern this intend switch in ampar property , mouse lack all glur - b , however , show a widespread impairment in behavior , include lethargy , motor coordination problem , and deficit in exploratory activity [ 51 ] , which preclude detailed behavioral analysis .
similarly , mouse express ( in the entire brain ) a substantial part of the glur - b population in the q / r site - unedited form become seizure - prone and die prematurely [ 53 ] .
some of these problem can be partially overcome by use of spatially and temporally restrict expression system [ 54 – 56 ] , in particular the cre - lox system , with cre - recombinase expression in define brain area of gene - target mouse carry glur - b allele mark by loxp site for cre - mediate recombination [ 55 , 57 ] .
indeed , restrict the expression of q / r site - unedited glur - b to forebrain result in almost normal lifespan and an only weakly seizure - prone phenotype [ 58 ] .
mouse with forebrain - specific glur - b depletion appear almost completely normal throughout life with no developmental abnormality , thus permit a detail , quantitative investigation of olfactory behavior .
to allow for the mechanistic separation of olfactory learning , discrimination , and memory , we exploit a well - know phenomenon of transgene , which concern heterogeneous expression among different founder line and even among genetically identical individual of a given line .
although such “ mosaic ” expression be usually undesired , here we take advantage of it by ablate glur - b via gene - target , floxed glur - b allele with the help of a transgenic mouse line with variegate cre expression in forebrain .
by correlate glur - b level in olfaction - relate brain region with quantitative behavioral data , we investigate the dependence on glur - b of olfactory discrimination and memory .
moreover , to delineate the brain area involve in these distinctive olfactory process we use transgenic “ rescue ” of glur - b ablation , specifically in piriform cortex and hippocampus .
these effort allow u to dissect , both spatially and mechanistically , the role of glur - b - mediate ampar property in select brain region in odor learning , discrimination , and memory .
result
glur - b ( q ) expression in the forebrain increase olfactory learning and discrimination
to explore the role of fast excitatory neurotransmission carry by glur - b - contain ampa channel in olfactory process , we first analyze mouse that express part of the glur - b population in a q / r site - unedited form ( figure 1a ; term “ glur - bδecs : fb ” ; see also [ 58 ] ) .
these mouse carry , in addition to a wild - type glur - b allele , a gene - target glur - bneo allele in which the intronic sequence critical for glur - b pre-mrna editing at the q / r site be replace by a floxed tk - neo gene , which severely reduce splicing of the modify intron and hence attenuate the expression of the glur - bneo allele [ 60 ] .
to unsilence the attenuate glur - bneo allele , specifically in the postnatal forebrain , we cross in the tgcre4 transgene , which encode cre - recombinase and be drive by the αcamkii promoter ( [ 59 ] ; “ camkcre4 ” ) .
thus , cre - recombinase remove in forebrain neuron the intronic tk - neo gene , lead to the active glur - bδecs allele for q / r site - unedited glur - b ( q ) subunit ( figure 1 and s1 ) .
a expect [ 53 , 60 ] , also in mouse express postnatally forebrain - specific q / r site - unedited glur - b ( q ) subunit , ca2 + permeability through ampar be increase and ampar current show rectification ( [ 58 ] and unpublished data ) .
glur - bδecs : fb mouse have , in contrast to mouse express glur - b ( q ) globally , a prolong lifespan and no severe developmental alteration .
they be however , still seizure - prone [ 58 ] , and hence behavioral training be restrict to short period of time .
we train six glur - bδecs : fb mouse and six littermate control on one odor pair in an automate go / no - go olfactory conditioning task [ 3 , 61 ] .
in this task , water - deprive mouse be train to distinguish a water - reward odor ( s + ) and an unrewarded odor ( s − ) by their licking response ( figure 1b ) .
both glur - bδecs : fb and control mouse acquire the “ simple ” task to discriminate between the monomolecular odor amylacetate and ethylbutyrate ( percentage correct > 70 % after 400 trial ) .
strikingly , glur - bδecs : fb mouse show more rapid learning and enhance discrimination capability ( figure 1c , group effect : f ( 1 , 10 ) = 10.2 , p < 0.01 ) .
this be confirm by fit linear trend line to the initial part of the learning curve ( slope difference : p < 0.05 ; see material and method ) .
the training system employ allow for careful monitoring of head position [ 3 ] .
for reward trial ( figure 1d , green ) , already weakly train animal keep their head in the sampling port ( large tube in figure 1b ) during the entire 2 - s trial , whereas for unrewarded trial the head be retract quickly ( figure 1d , red ) .
the difference of these two curve ( figure 1e , black ) be a very sensitive assay for discrimination performance ; the fitted maximum of this curve ( figure 1e , blue ) be refer to a the “ discrimination index ” in the remainder of the paper and be again strongly improve for glur - bδecs : fb mouse , compare with control ( figure 1f ; group effect : f ( 1 , 10 ) = 11.7 , p < 0.01 ) .
this be not due to general motor performance , attention , or motivation change , a both the intertrial interval ( group effect : f ( 1 , 10 ) = 0.56 , p > 0.4 ) and the overall licking frequency ( group effect : f ( 1 , 10 ) = 0.72 , p > 0.4 ) be unaffected .
thus , expression of ca2 + - permeable ampars in forebrain area , include the olfactory bulb , result in more rapid odor learning and enhance olfactory discrimination .
glur - bδfb mouse exhibit increase olfactory discrimination performance
to ascertain if enhance olfactory learning and odor discrimination may indeed correlate with the increase ca2 + permeability of ampa channel in the q / r site - unedited form , we next analyze glur - bδfb mouse , which lack glur - b in forebrain .
this specific ablation be generate by forebrain - selective tgcre4 expression ( [ 59 ] “ camkcre4 ” ) in gene - target glur - b2lox mouse carry , in both glur - b allele , a floxed exon 11 ( figure 2a ) .
the specific glur - b depletion in glur - bδfb mouse can be monitor by immunohistochemistry ( see below ) and immunoblotting .
in quantitative immunoblot analysis , we find glur - b level reduce to 28 ± 7 % , 29 ± 8 % , and 52 ± 9 % ( ± sem ; n = 10 ) in the hippocampus , cortical area , and olfactory bulb , respectively , relative to glur - b level in glur - b2lox littermate control .
in the absence of glur - b , the electrophysiological property of ampa channel become similar to those with glur - b / glur - b ( q ) switch [ 51 ] show strong rectification and increase ca2 + permeability through ampa channel ( unpublished data ) .
however , glur - b depletion be not lethal and do not produce seizure .
in addition , in contrast to the complete glur - b knockout , mouse with forebrain - specific glur - b depletion appear normal throughout life with no developmental abnormality , or difference in body size and weight in adulthood ( wild - type : 31.0 g ± 1.2 ; glur - bδfb : 28.4 ± 0.9 ; each n = 10 ) .
exploratory activity in an open field task be slightly increase in glur - bδfb mouse ( 3,480 cm ± 180 , n = 11 ) , compare with wild - type littermates ( 2,512 cm ± 96 , n = 12 , p < 0.01 ) .
motor coordination measure in an accelerate rotarod be somewhat impair in the mutant mouse ( wild - type : 156 s ± 37 , n = 6 ; glur - bδfb : 37 s ± 10 , n = 6 ; p < 0.05 ) .
test in the dark / light box reveal increase anxiety of glur - bδfb mouse ( latency of first exit : wild - type [ 17 s ± 3 ] , glur - bδfb [ 97 s ± 42 ] , p = 0.047 ; compartment change : wild - type [ 17 s ± 3 ] , glur - bδfb [ 7 ± 2 ] , p < 0.05 ; time spend in light compartment : wild - type [ 103 s ± 10 ] , glur - bδfb [ 59 s ± 19 ] , p = 0.051 ; each n = 6 ) .
hence , unlike the complete glur - b knockout , glur - bδfb mouse show only very minor change in general activity and no sign of any major developmental disturbance , thus allow detailed , quantitative behavioral investigation .
if the glur - b / glur - b ( q ) switch - induce alteration in the ca2 + permeability of the ampa channel be link to enhance odor discrimination and learning , the depletion of the glur - b subunit should lead to a similar phenotypic readout .
we therefore train nine glur - bδfb mouse and nine littermate control in the same automate associative go / no - go olfactory conditioning task describe above .
to cover even small phenotypic change in olfaction , we test different odor pair , “ simple ” monomolecular odor and “ difficult ” binary mixture [ 3 ] .
after habituation , glur - bδfb and control mouse be train to discriminate between the “ simple ” monomolecular odor amylacetate and ethylbutyrate , and subsequently additionally on a “ difficult ” discrimination task consist of similar binary mixture of cineol and eugenol ; and finally again on a “ simple ” discrimination task with the monomolecular odor pelargonic and valeric acid .
similar to glur - bδecs : fb , glur - bδfb mouse also show enhance learning and discrimination compare with control ( figure 2b ; group effect : f ( 1 , 16 ) = 6.55 ; p < 0.05 ) .
increase discrimination performance be expect to show more pronounced effect for closely related odor because of the more challenging “ difficult ” discrimination task that be close to the psychophysical limit of the system [ 3 , 4 ] .
consistent with this notion , difference between glur - bδfb and control mouse be not only large if the detailed sampling pattern and discrimination index be investigate ( figure 2c and 2d , group effect : f ( 1 , 16 ) = 29.5 ; p < 10 − 4 ) , but in particular for the discrimination of binary mixture with similar composition ( group effect : f ( 1 , 16 ) = 27.8 ; p < 10 − 4 for the mixture ; faa eb ( 1 , 16 ) = 7.0 ; p = 0.02 , and fpel val ( 1 , 16 ) = 5.8 ; p = 0.03 for the “ simple ” discrimination task ; 3 - way anova : f ( 6 , 96 ) = 2.9 ; p = 0.01 ) .
a activity , measure by the intertrial interval , be not significantly different between genotype ( f ( 1 , 16 ) = 3.1 ; p = 0.1 ) , and analysis of the lick frequency show a tendency to reduce motivation of glur - bδfb mouse in this particular task ( f ( 1 , 16 ) = 9.2 ; p < 0.01 ) , we conclude that depletion of glur - b in forebrain area indeed result in increase olfactory learning and discrimination performance , rather than motivational alteration .
to assess olfaction specificity , we train ten glur - bδfb mouse and ten control in a nonolfactory hippocampus - dependent spatial learning task ( elevate y - maze ) .
performance in this task be not improve compare with control ( figure s2 ) ; on the contrary , the acquisition of this task be slightly impair , allow the conclusion that the enhance olfactory discrimination performance be likely to be specific to the sense of smell and possibly related to enhance discrimination capability , rather than a general increase in alertness .
furthermore , enhancement in odor discrimination in both glur - bδecs : fb and glur - bδfb mouse make it likely that improvement in this task result from the common ampar property change mediate by the depletion of glur - b and the lack of the q / r site - edit glur - b subunit , both result in ca2 + - permeable ampars .
thus , this suggest that increase ca2 + influx via ampars lead to enhance olfactory learning and discrimination .
olfactory memory be significantly decrease but highly variable in glur - bδfb mouse
to capture the full extent of the role of ca2 + - permeable ampars in olfactory behavior , we next assess the effect of alter ampa channel on olfactory memory .
to probe olfactory memory in glur - bδfb mouse , six day after the end of the first training phase for odor discrimination ( amylacetate versus ethylbutyrate ) , the training trial for the third odor pair ( pelargonic versus valeric acid ) be interleave with unrewarded trial in which amylacetate or ethylbutyrate be again present ( black bar in figure 2c ) .
whereas control mouse reliably respond only to the previously reward odor ( memory of 86 ± 8 % , mean ± sd , n = 9 , figure 2e ) , glur - bδfb mouse show reduce olfactory memory ( 69 ± 16 % , n = 9 , p < 0.05 , mann - whitney ) .
due to the more rapid learning observe in glur - bδfb , one could speculate that a decrease in olfactory memory might simply reflect increase extinction .
however , extinction level be low in general , no significant group - trial interaction could be find for the memory trial ( 2 - way anova , f ( 6 , 90 ) = 1.5 , p > 0.1 ) , and a restriction of the analysis to early memory trial display essentially the same pattern ( figure s3a ) .
thus , reduce performance in the probe trial be not due to increase extinction but reflect genuine memory impairment .
moreover , because the hippocampus - dependent spatial memory after - task acquisition in the y - maze be not affect ( figure s2 ) , we conclude that the observe olfactory memory deficit be rather specific for olfaction and do not readily generalize to other modality .
while the improve odor discrimination and learning behavior show only little variability , the significantly impair memory performance observe in glur - bδfb mouse be highly variable among individual animal compare with control littermates ( figure 2e ) .
this variability in olfactory memory be reflect in the level and extent of cre - recombinase expression in forebrain of transgenic tgcre4 mouse , a visualize by cre - activity in the cre - indicator mouse line r26r .
we observe that onset and extent of cre - recombinase expression in different forebrain region vary among individual tgcre4 mouse ( figure 3a ) , which could also be directly visualize by immunohistochemistry with a cre - antibody ( unpublished data ) .
a this variability persist after several backcrosses , and southern blot analysis reveal no difference of transgene integration or number among animal ( figure 3b ) , it could not be attribute to genetic difference but rather to epigenetic mechanism .
hence , we hypothesize that the variability in olfactory memory reflect the mosaicism observe in the transgenic tgcre4 line .
the evaluation of regional difference in expression pattern of animal with robust and poor olfactory memory could then be apply to identify brain area responsible for the observe phenotype .
olfactory memory correlate with residual glur - b protein expression in glur - bδfb mouse
thus , to examine whether the pronounced variability of olfactory memory in glur - bδfb mouse ( figure 2e ) reflect variability of glur - b level in glur - bδfb mouse , we analyze the residual amount of glur - b protein in mouse with disparate memory performance ( figure 4a – c ) .
notably , mouse with pronounced memory deficit ( memory < 70 % ) show essentially no detectable glur - b protein in hippocampus , amygdala , olfactory bulb , and piriform cortex ( n = 2 , figure 4b , and unpublished data ) , but mouse with almost complete memory display substantial residual glur - b level in all brain area investigate ( n = 2 , figure 4b , and unpublished data ) .
to quantify the relation between residual glur - b protein and olfactory memory , the memory experiment be repeat with nine additional glur - bδfb mouse and two glur - b2lox control animal ( indicate with shade symbol in figure 4a ) , result in the same mean , variability , and range of memory performance ( control : 89 ± 10 % ; glur - bδfb : 63 ± 14 % ) .
subsequently , protein be extract from olfactory bulb , cortical area , and hippocampus from each mouse , and glur - b protein be quantify ( figure 4c ) .
the summarize correlation be depict in figure 4d ( two animal be use for immunofluorescent analysis that yield the same result a in the first experiment ) .
whereas no learning or discrimination - relate parameter correlate with residual protein level ( figure 4d , r2 < 0.3 ) , a strong correlation between memory and glur - b protein be observe in hippocampus ( figure 4d , r2 = 0.72 , p < 0.003 , n = 10 ) and cortical area ( figure 4d , r2 = 0.62 , p < 0.006 , n = 10 ) .
only a weakly significant correlation be find in the olfactory bulb ( figure 4d , r2 = 0.48 , p = 0.03 , n = 10 ) .
glur - a level be unchanged from wild - type , indicate that compensatory up - regulation of other ampar subunit be unlikely ( glur - a level relative to control : 1.02 ± 0.05 , mean ± sem , n = 10 ) .
in summary , mouse with reduce glur - b level in forebrain area show decrease olfactory memory , which correlate tightly with a reduction in glur - b level in the hippocampus and cortical area .
enhance odor learning and discrimination , on the other hand , be independent of residual glur - b level in the olfactory bulb and other forebrain area , indicate that moderate glur - b reduction be sufficient to saturate enhance odor learning and discrimination .
thus , although both be mediate by alteration in the ampar subunit glur - b , due to the qualitatively different dose - response curve , the phenotype regard olfactory memory , and olfactory learning / discrimination must be mechanistically distinct .
partial rescue of olfactory memory deficit by selective transgenic glur - b expression in hippocampus and piriform cortex in glur - bδfb mouse
the effect of selective glur - b depletion in mouse indicate that glur - b - contain ampars in the hippocampus , and / or ( olfactory ) cortex be likely to be important for olfactory memory .
the olfactory memory phenotype could be due to depletion of glur - b in olfactory cortex or hippocampus ; enhance learning and discrimination capability might rather be evoke by ampars lack glur - b in the olfactory bulb .
to obtain independent evidence for this spatial and mechanistic dissection of the role of ca2 + - permeable ampars , we express by transgenic mean n - terminally green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) - tag glur - b specifically in hippocampus and piriform cortex of glur - bδfb mouse ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
in accordance with the propose region - dependence , we expect that additional glur - b subunit in hippocampus and / or piriform cortex improve odor memory but do not alter odor discrimination performance .
the mouse line employ for this purpose , term glur - brescue , have the genetic background of glur - bδfb mouse but additionally carry a bidirectional module for β - galactosidase and gfpglur - b expression , responsive to the tetracycline - control transcriptional transactivator [ 62 ] .
the transactivator be under the control of a modify αcamkii - promoter fragment to obtain high expression selectivity ( figure 5a ; see also material and method ) .
the transgenic expression level of gfpglur - b be 9.72 % ± 1.25 ( n = 3 ) in the hippocampus , compare with endogenous glur - b ( figure 5c and 5d ) .
analysis of β - galactosidase activity and gfpglur - b expression in brain section of glur - brescue mouse reveal expression in hippocampus and piriform cortex , whereas cortex , amygdala , and striatum only rarely show any positive cell ( figure 5b ) .
importantly , both the spatial pattern and intensity of gfpglur - b expression be constant among all glur - brescue mouse analyze ( n = 11 ) .
olfactory memory experiment with glur - brescue , and both glur - bδfb and glur - b2lox mouse a control , be perform a describe above ( indicate with shade symbol in figure 6a ) .
memory be again highly reproducible in both glur - bδfb ( 66 ± 12 % ; n = 4 ) and glur - b2lox ( 94 ± 2 % ; n = 3 ) mouse , compare with experiment perform earlier ( figure 2e and 4a ) .
importantly , olfactory memory in glur - brescue mouse be intermediate ( 75 ± 15 % , n = 8 ) , below glur - b2lox control level , but good than in glur - bδfb mouse .
assess memory under extinction - free condition , where each trial be reward , confirm again that the memory deficit be a true memory deficit and not due to increase extinction ( figure s3b ) .
data from the experiment describe in figure 2 and 4 be combine to allow statistical comparison ( figure 6a and 6b ) .
in summary , glur - brescue mouse show both enhance memory performance compare with glur - bδfb ( overall anova : f ( 2 , 41 ) = 13.6 , p < 10 − 4 ; memoryrescue = 75 ± 15 % , n = 8 ; memoryδfb = 66 ± 14 % , n = 22 ; p < 0.05 ; figure 6a ) , but be still impair relative to glur - b2lox control ( memory2lox = 88 ± 8 % , n = 14 ; p < 0.005 ) , consistent with a partial rescue of the memory deficit by circumscribe transgenic gfpglur - b expression in hippocampus and piriform cortex .
notably , the partial memory be in numerical agreement with the prediction from the protein correlation and the measurement of transgenic protein expression ( see predict memory , blue line , in figure 6b ) .
in the olfactory memory experiment with glur - bδfb animal , olfactory memory linearly depend on glur - b expression in cortex and hippocampus with a slope of 9.1 ± 2.5 % ( cortex ) and 8.9 ± 2.0 % ( hippocampus ) increase in memory per 10 % increase in protein ( figure 4d ) .
a 9.7 % increase in glur - b in these brain region , a achieve by glur - brescue animal ( figure 5 ) , be thus predict to increase olfactory memory by approximately 9 % throughout the heterogeneous population ( blue line in figure 6b ) .
this confirm the role of these brain area a infer from the mosaic expression and protein correlation analysis describe above ( figure 4 ) .
however , odor discrimination ( measure by the discrimination index a in figure 1 , 2 , and 4d ) be as enhance a in glur - bδfb mouse ( 0.79 ± 0.05 , mean ± sem compare with 0.76 ± 0.02 , p > 0.7 , figure 6c ) , and improve relative to glur - b2lox control ( 0.48 ± 0.06 ; figure 6c ; overall anova : f ( 2 , 41 ) = 17.2 , p < 10 − 5 ; post hoc newman keuls : p < 10 − 3 ) , a expect if the enhance discrimination phenotype be due to ca2 + - permeable ampars in the olfactory bulb and unaffected by glur - b expression in piriform cortex or hippocampus .
hence , transgenic glur - b expression , specifically in the piriform cortex and hippocampus in the glur - b knockout background , rescue the odor memory deficit but leave enhance olfactory discrimination and learning unaltered .
discussion
here we present mechanistic and spatial dissection of olfactory discrimination , learning , and memory .
we employ gene - target and transgenic mouse with region - specific expression to demonstrate that a change in glur - b - mediate property of ampa channel in αcamkii - express neuron of mouse forebrain , include olfactory bulb mitral and granule cell , enhance olfactory discrimination and learning but impair olfactory memory .
these pertinent olfactory behavior be assess in a go / no - go operant conditioning task , which provide a quantitative , robust , and reproducible behavioral tool [ 3 ] .
we observe among individual mouse a striking variability in olfactory memory performance but not in odor discrimination .
this variability could be trace to epigenetic variability in the transgenic expression of cre - recombinase , which mediate recombination within loxp - flank segment of gene - target allele for the dominant ampar subunit glur - b , and hence operate the switch in ampar property toward glur - b ablation and increase ca2 + permeability .
in contrast to variable memory , olfactory discrimination and learning performance appear already saturated by even moderate extent of cre expression , and hence moderate change in ampar property .
the subsequent transgene - drive re-introduction of glur - b , specifically in piriform cortex and hippocampus , reverse the cre - induce loss of glur - b and partially rescue the odor memory deficit , but leave unaltered the enhance olfactory discrimination .
in a nutshell , we conclude that olfactory discrimination be enhance by an increase in ampar - mediate ca2 + permeability within the olfactory bulb , whereas olfactory memory become impaired upon genetically induce glur - b ablation in high brain center , specifically in piriform cortex .
olfactory discrimination be increase in mouse with forebrain - specific glur - b ablation or glur - b ( q ) expression
both forebrain - specific glur - b ( q ) expression and glur - b depletion lead to increase olfactory learning and discrimination capability .
this be rather pronounced for glur - b ( q ) - express mouse , consistent with the overall strong phenotypic consequence in comparison to glur - b depletion , both when forebrain - selective ( [ 58 ] , and this study ) or global [ 53 , 60 ] .
a detailed analysis of the sampling pattern [ 3 ] , and in particular the analysis of discrimination task that involve “ simple ” dissimilar monomolecular odor pair and “ difficult ” binary mixture , be necessary to fully capture the characteristic of the olfactory discrimination phenotype for forebrain - specific glur - b - deplete mouse .
for closely related binary mixture , discrimination improvement be large , consistent with a specific alteration in odor discrimination , rather than a general enhancement of learning capability .
this be far support by the notion that no general improvement be observe in other nonolfactory behavioral task , e.g. , hippocampus - dependent spatial learning task such a matching - to - place spatial reference memory task ( figure s2 ) .
a no cre expression and activity be observe in the main olfactory sensory neuron at any developmental stage ( figure s4 and unpublished data ) , olfactory epithelial function be unaltered by the genetic modification .
the vomeronasal organ show very weak cre expression ( unpublished data ) , but a role of this structure concern performance in the olfactory discrimination task be unlikely ( for review , see [ 63 ] ) .
the behavioral phenotype be thus likely to be associate with the processing of olfactory information rather than the detection of odor .
furthermore , increase performance even after long stretch of training and , in particular , increase sampling pattern difference ( tb and at , unpublished data ) support the notion that glur - b depletion result in enhance odor discrimination capability .
the learning phenotype might thus be a result of this enhance discrimination capability or reflect additional change in circuit underlie task acquisition .
putative cellular basis of enhance odor discrimination and learning
ampar property be alter specifically in neuron of forebrain area , most notably olfactory bulb , olfactory cortex , and other cortical area and hippocampus , lead to enhance odor discrimination and learning .
interestingly , transgenic expression of gfpglur - b in glur - bδfb mouse ( genetic “ rescue ” ) , specifically in piriform cortex and hippocampus with no detectable expression in the olfactory bulb , do not alter enhance discrimination and learning capability .
this be consistent with a primary role of the olfactory bulb in olfactory discrimination and learning .
alternatively , transgenic protein level might have be too low to alter discrimination and learning capability , although memory be clearly affect .
this notion will be far test in mouse with piriform cortex - specific glur - b ablation .
a direct contribution to the phenotype by ca2 + influx through genetically modify ampa channel seem to be likely , since mouse express q / r site - unedited glur - b show even good odor learning and discrimination performance compare with mouse with deplete glur - b .
in both mouse model ca2 + influx through ampa channel be increase , whereas the effect on the macroscopic ampa conductance differ .
ampar current be reduce in mouse not express glur - b [ 51 ] , possibly due to few synaptic ampa channel and impair ampar trafficking and recycling .
in mouse express the unedited form of glur - b ( q ) , macroscopic conductance in whole - cell patch of ca1 pyramidals be increase [ 60 ] , but excitatory transmission in ca3 - to - ca1 cell synapsis be somewhat reduced , in spite of a low threshold for generate a population spike [ 58 ] , indicate increase synaptic excitability by sustain glur - b ( q ) expression , in line with the seizure - prone phenotype .
yet , both mouse model yield enhance discrimination and learning capability .
the mild phenotype upon glur - b depletion could be attribute to reduce ampar density at synapsis [ 40 , 41 ] and therefore probably to a less extent of ca2 + influx .
this be far support by kainate - induce co2 + uptake in acute brain slice , reveal considerably high co2 + uptake via ca2 + - permeable ampars in hippocampal pyramidal neuron of mouse express glur - b ( q ) , than those lack glur - b ( drs , r , and ph , unpublished data ) .
normally , glur - b - contain ampars be prominently localize at the dendrodendritic synapse between mitral and granule cell in the olfactory bulb [ 64 , 65 ] .
a ca2 + influx through glutamate receptor be think to contribute to lateral and recurrent inhibition ( [ 38 ] see also [ 39 ] ) , the absence of glur - b , or the presence of glur - b ( q ) in the olfactory bulb , be likely to result in increase inhibition between the principal neuron in this structure .
notably , the improve olfactory discrimination capability be apparent even upon relatively small reduction in glur - b level .
it will be interesting to see if glur - b + / neo mouse also exhibit enhance odor discrimination , which be indeed likely given that low level of glur - b ( q ) , and hence a small increase in ca2 + - permeable ampars , arise from the attenuate glur - bneo allele [ 60 ] , and , moreover , that glur - b level be decrease in these mouse due to the single copy of the glur - b + allele .
in virtually all model of the olfactory bulb , lateral ( and , in few model , also recurrent ) inhibition play a dominant role , either in establish spatiotemporal dynamic [ 32 , 66 – 69 ] , or in directly enhance contrast and therefore simplify discrimination and learning of similar odorants [ 24 , 28 , 29 , 36 ] .
increase inhibition will thus in general improve discriminability , consistent with the behavioral improvement observe with glur - b ( q ) expression , the glur - b knockout , and the “ rescue ” mouse .
a direct test of this link would require the quantitative measurement of inhibition in the intact preparation , a task that might be feasible with far improve in vivo electrophysiological technique , such a target recording [ 70 , 71 ] or simultaneous pre - and postsynaptic intracellular measurement .
olfactory memory be reduce in glur - b knockout mouse and improve by glur - b expression in piriform cortex and hippocampus
to assess olfactory memory of glur - bδfb mouse , after six day the mouse be probe with unrewarded odor presentation that interleave a simple discrimination task .
prolong behavioral task such a the assessment of long - term olfactory memory be not perform with the seizure - prone glur - bδecs : fb mouse .
memory in glur - bδfb mouse , however , be dramatically impair .
this can not be attribute to a general , unspecific deficit because , simultaneous to the memory trial , the normal , reward discrimination task be perform even well than by control .
reduce olfactory memory can also not be simply attribute to increase extinction , a no significant trial - group interaction be observe and also , when restrict to the first unrewarded memory trial , a significant impairment be observe ( figure s3a ) .
additionally , investigate relearning of the first discrimination task reveal a significant correlation with the memory performance , show a “ memory ” deficit under extinction - free condition ( figure s3b ) .
finally , in other memory - relate task , such a a hippocampus - dependent spatial reference memory task ( figure s2 ) , mouse with glur - b depletion be not impair after task acquisition .
we therefore conclude that forebrain - specific ablation of glur - b result in a specific loss of long - term olfactory memory but , at the same time , in enhance odor discrimination and learning capability .
to dissect the discrimination , learning , and memory phenotype , and ultimately identify potential cellular correlate , we make use of the variegated cre expression of tgcre4 mouse .
therefore , residual glur - b level be determine from each mouse that have be test in the behavioral experiment , and level be correlate with odor learning , discrimination , and olfactory memory .
the significant direct correlation between residual glur - b level in hippocampus and cortical area with olfactory memory suggest hippocampal and / or cortical neuron a putative mediator for odor memorization and / or storage .
no measure of discrimination and learning , on the other hand , correlate with residual glur - b level ; even the small reduction in glur - b level ( about 20 % – 60 % ) be sufficient to establish and saturate enhance odor discrimination capability .
together , this allow the conclusion that distinct mechanism mediate discrimination / learning and memory .
this be furthermore consistent with a prominent role of cortical area or hippocampus in olfactory memory , although glur - b level in the olfactory bulb be also weakly correlate with memory performance .
transgenic expression of gfpglur - b in piriform cortex and hippocampus indeed rescue memory to an extent strikingly consistent with the transgenic protein level ( approximately 10 % of wild - type glur - b ) , confirm the reliability of the correlation analysis and the sensitivity of the behavioral assay .
in general , the hippocampus be think to be involve in only those olfactory memory task that involve temporal sequence analysis or require other high cognitive feature [ 2 , 13 , 72 – 74 ] .
in particular , extensive lesion to the hippocampal formation in rat do not interfere with long - term olfactory memory in go / no - go successive olfactory discrimination task [ 72 ] , such a the one describe .
this leave piriform cortex a the most prominent candidate for the locus of the olfactory memory deficit describe , consistent with the prevalent view of piriform cortex a an associational memory structure [ 75 ] and learning - associate change in piriform cortex [ 7 , 20 – 23 ] .
potential mechanism of specific olfactory memory impairment
what could be the cellular basis of the long - term memory deficit bring about by lack of glur - b - contain ampars ?
for complete glur - b knockout , increase long - term plasticity ( ltp ) be report in hippocampal field recording [ 51 ] .
in addition , in hippocampal and amygdala pathway lack glur - b , an ampar - dependent , n - methyl - d - aspartate ( nmda ) receptor - independent form of ltp can be readily induce [ 51 , 52 ] .
mechanistically , this be likely to be due to ca2 + influx through glur - b - less ampa channel lead to non-hebbian form of plasticity .
however , hebbian dependence on simultaneous pre - and postsynaptic activity be often a critical feature for memory storage ( review in e.g. [ 76 ] ) ; hence , a non-hebbian form of plasticity should result in impair memorization .
surprisingly , in glur - bδfb mouse no ltp change could be observe in field measurement in the hippocampus , nor could nmda - independent ltp be induce in hippocampal synapsis between schaffer collateral and ca1 pyramidal cell in presence of the nmda antagonist apv ( k. jensen , o. hvalby , personal communication ) .
however , in other brain area that be potentially important for the processing of olfactory information , such a piriform cortex or olfactory bulb , ltp measurement have not yet be perform ; synapsis of these pathway may be regulate differently than hippocampal ca3 / ca1 synapsis .
additionally , by change the ca2 + permeability of ampars , ca2 + signaling via ampa and colocalized nmda channel might be disturb , thereby impair memory formation .
other form of plasticity [ 77 , 78 ] induce by ca2 + - permeable ampars might play a prevalent role in olfactory memory .
alternatively , long - term stabilization might involve glur - b phosphorylation similar to cerebellar long - term depression [ 79 ] and thus be selectively impair by glur - b depletion .
physiological experiment to assess these hypothesis will ideally make use of even more restrict genetic modification with completely undisturbed input structure .
one possibility would be cre - mediate glur - b depletion and glur - b ( q ) expression in piriform cortex a suggest above .
correlate quantitative behavior and mosaic gene expression for dissect phenotype
a critical step in discern the discrimination and learn phenotype from the memory phenotype be the observation of increase variability in the memory of the glur - b knockout animal and , subsequently , the individual analysis of protein expression level .
we make use of the epigenetic variability in glur - b excision that could be correlate to the variability in memory but show no correlation to variability in discrimination .
the analysis of quantitative trait locus ( for review , see [ 80 ] ) , or classically correlate different behavioral phenotype within a truly wild - type population [ 81 – 84 ] , also attempt to find common or distinct genetic origin of different behavioral trait .
these attempt undoubtedly contribute significantly to unravel the molecular basis of behavior .
due to subtle and multigenic difference between different strain of rodent or different individual in a wild - type population , however , they suffer from a rather low “ signal - to - noise ” ratio .
difference in individual gene be rather small compare with the vast number of gene involve .
a a result , purely correlate behavioral trait within a wild - type population usually remain rather descriptive , whereas quantitative trait locus analysis be capable of reveal multigenic basis of behavioral trait but usually lack the power to identify the individual gene themselves .
herein , we describe a way to enhance the signal - to - noise ratio by make use of the mosaic expression often associate with transgenic approach : combine the advantage of “ classical ” genetic manipulation — namely , that the target of the manipulation be well define — with the possibility to analyze variability , might also in future provide novel way to define molecular and cellular correlate of complex behavioral trait .
in this study , we combine genetically induce manipulation of the ampar composition with quantitative behavioral and molecular analysis .
we could thus provide evidence for oppose role of specific glur - b manipulation and increase ca2 + influx via ampars in olfactory discrimination / learning , and memory , potentially in the olfactory bulb and piriform cortex , respectively .
to achieve this , we make use of the epigenetic variability in the extent of glur - b ablation , which correlate with the variability in odor memory , but not in discrimination and learning ; this finding be subsequently confirm in glur - b rescue mouse with piriform cortex - specific transgenic expression of glur - b .
extend these principle of combine quantitative behavioral analysis with minimal and dose genetic interference , together with further physiological analysis , will ultimately pinpoint the neural circuitry underlie related , but distinct , behavioral trait in olfactory and other system .
material and method
mouse line
the r26r line [ 85 ] be employ a cre indicator .
glur - bδecs : fb mouse be of mix c57 bl / 6 and nmri genetic background and generate from tgcre4 ( “ camkcre4 ” in [ 59 ] ) and glur - b + / neo [ 60 ] mouse .
glur - b + / neo mouse carry a wild - type glur - b allele and a gene - target glur - b allele in which the intron 11 sequence critical for q / r site editing be replace by a tk - neo gene flank by loxp site ( “ floxed ” ) .
glur - b2lox mouse [ 86 ] carry gene - target glur - b allele in which exon 11 be floxed .
glur - bδfb mouse be of c57bl / 6 genetic background and generate from tgcre4 and glur - b2lox mouse .
tgcn12 - itta mouse be generate a describe for tgcn10 - itta mouse ( see material and method in [ 58 ] ) , and represent another founder line obtain from the same pronucleus injection , with more widespread forebrain expression .
for exogeneous expression of gfpglur - b , the mouse line tgocn1 be generate : an asei fragment of plasmid pnlacz / gfpglur - b be inject into the pronucleus of oocyte obtain from dba1 / c57bl / 6 f1 hybrid .
positive founder be backcross into c57bl / 6 for further analysis .
plasmid pnlacz / gfpglur - b be construct from pnlacz / gfpglur - a [ 87 ] by replace glur - a cdna with the rat cdna for glur - b .
transgenic gfpglur - b protein level be measure in hippocampus of tgocn1 mouse also carry a transgene for forebrain - specific homogeneous tta expression [ 88 ] .
experimental group
mouse heterozygous for tgcre4 and heterozygous for the tk - neo cassette in the glur - b allele ( glur - bδecs : fb ) or homozygous for the floxed glur - b ( glur - bδfb ) be use in the experiment .
the “ rescue ” mouse ( glur - brescue ) be positive for tgcre4 , homozygous for the floxed glur - b gene , and positive for the tet - sensitive responder transgene tgocn1 and for the itta express activator transgene tgcn12 - itta .
control group
littermate control be use in all experiment .
glur - b + / + mouse be use a control in the task describe in figure 1 .
glur - b + / 2lox and glur - b2lox / 2lox ( both negative for tgcre4 ) mouse be use a control in experiment describe in figure 2 , 4 , and 6 .
for the glur - brescue experiment ( figure 6 ) , control positive for either tgcn12 - itta or tgocn1 in a glur - b + / 2lox and glur - b2lox / 2lox ( both negative for tgcre4 ) background be use .
genotyping
mouse be select by pcr of mouse - tail dna with specific primer a describe below .
indicate be the sequence and the approximate length of the amplify dna fragment .
tgcre4 : rspcre1 ( 5 ′ - accaggttcgttcactcatgg - 3 ′ ) and rspcre2 ( 5 ′ - aggctaagtgccttctctacac - 3 ′ ) , 200 basepairs ( bp ) .
glur - bneo : mh60 ( 5 ′ - cactcacagcaatgaagcaggac - 3 ′ ) , mh53a ( 5 ′ - gaatgttgatcatgtgtttccctg - 3 ′ ) , and mh117 ( 5 ′ - gttcgaattcgccaatgacaagacg - 3 ′ ) , wild - type : 500 bp and mutant : 400 bp .
glur - b2lox : vm12 ( 5 ′ - gcgtaagcctgtgaaatacctg - 3 ′ ) and vm10 ( 5 ′ - gttgtctaacaagttgttgacc - 3 ′ ) , wild - type : 250 bp and mutant : 350 bp .
tgocn1 : vm4 ( 5 ′ - ctcccagacaaccattacctgtcc - 3 ′ ) and glur - b882bst ( 5 ′ - cgaagtatacttaattgtcgctgtgtg - 3 ′ ) , 600 bp .
tgcn12 - itta : htta1 ( 5 ′ - agagcaaagtcatcaactctg - 3 ′ ) and htta2 ( 5 ′ - gtgagagccagactcacatttca - 3 ′ ) , 1,000 bp .
southern blot analysis
genomic dna from mouse - tail / liver be digest with restriction enzyme bglii ( neb ) , and the southern blot be do with a 320 - bp probe ( “ integ ” ) obtain by pcr detect the αcamkii promoter .
histochemistry
histochemistry be perform a describe previously [ 89 ] , with the follow exception : coronal 70 - to 100 - μm vibratome slice be use for immunohistochemistry with glur - b ( 1 : 60 , polyclonal ; chemicon , temecula , california , united state ) , gfp ( 1 : 8,000 , polyclonal ; mobitech , göttingen , germany ) , and cre ( 1 : 8,000 , polyclonal ; babco , berkeley , california , united state ) primary antibody , and fitc - couple ( 1 : 200 ; dianova , hamburg , germany ) and peroxidase - couple ( 1 : 600 ; vector , burlingame , california , united state ) secondary goat anti-rabbit antibody .
the main olfactory epithelium be obtain via cryostat sectioning , and immunohistochemistry be perform ( primary antibody cre , 1 : 5,000 , polyclonal ; babco ) .
x - gal staining be perform a describe [ 89 ] .
immunoblot analysis
mouse brain be remove , and the hippocampus , olfactory bulb , and remain forebrain area be isolate .
total protein be prepare , and immunoblots be perform a describe [ 87 ] .
antibody use be against glur - b ( 1 : 800 , monoclonal ; chemicon ) , β - actin ( 1 : 40,000 , monoclonal ; sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) a an internal standard , and secondary goat anti-rabbit and goat anti-mouse antibody ( vector , 1 : 15,000 ) .
immunoreactivity be detect with eclplus ( amersham , little chalfont , united kingdom ) , and immunoblots be scan and quantitatively analyze with imagej .
behavioral analysis : subject
all mouse be four to six week old at the beginning of the experiment .
subject be maintain on a 12 - h light - dark cycle in isolate cage in a temperature and humidity - control animal facility .
all behavioral training be conduct during daytime .
during the training period , animal be keep on free food but on a water - restriction schedule design to keep them at > 85 % of their free food body weight .
continuous water restriction be never longer than 12 h .
all animal care and procedure be in accordance with the animal ethic guideline of the max - planck society .
apparatus
all olfactory discrimination experiment be perform use three modify eight - channel olfactometers ( [ 61 ] , knosys , bethesda , maryland , united state of america ) operate by custom - write software in igor ( wave metric , lake oswego , oregon , united state of america ) on pentium i , ii , and iii pc run microsoft window 98 .
great care be take to counterbalance group between setup .
in brief , animal be present with odor from one out of eight possible odor channel and reward with a 2 - to 4 - μl drop of water in a combine odor / reward port ( figure 1b ) , ensure tight association of the water - reward with a present odorant .
head insertion into the port be monitor by an ir beam and photodiode ( figure 1b ) .
odor use be n - amyl acetate , ethyl butyrate , pelargonic acid , valeric acid , and binary mixture of cineol and eugenol .
if not otherwise note , odor be dilute to 1 % in mineral oil ( fluka chemie , steinheim , germany ) and far dilute by airflow to a final concentration of approximately 0.15 % .
all dilution in the text refer to the dilution in mineral oil .
all chemical be obtain from fluka chemie .
task habituation training
begin 1 – 3 d after the start of the water restriction schedule , animal be train use standard operant - condition procedure [ 3 ] .
in a first pretraining step , each lick at the water delivery tube be reward .
after 20 lick , a second stage be enter in which head insertion initiate a 2 - s “ odor ” presentation during which a lick be reward .
the “ odorant ” use in the pretraining be the carrier medium mineral oil .
all animal learn this task within one day ( 2 – 3 session 30 min each ) .
structure of an individual trial
the mouse initiate each trial by break a light barrier at the opening of the sampling port ( see also [ 3 ] ) .
this open one of eight odor valve , and a diversion valve that divert all air flow away from the animal for typically 500 m .
after the release of the diversion valve , the odor be accessible to the animal for 2,000 m .
if it continuously lick at the lick port during this time ( once in at least three out of four 500 - m bin ) , it can receive a 2 - to 4 - μl water reward after the end of the 2,000 - m period .
if the animal do not continuously lick , or if the present odor be a designate nonrewarded odor , neither a reward be give nor any sort of punishment , to minimize stress for the animal .
trial be count a correct if the animal lick continuously upon presentation of a reward odor or do not lick continuously with a nonrewarded odor .
a second trial can not be initiate unless an intertrial interval of at least 5 s have pass .
this interval be sufficiently long so that animal typically retract quickly after the end of the trial .
odor be present in a pseudo-randomized scheme ( no more than two successive presentation of the same odor , equal number within each 20 - trial block ) .
no intrinsic preference toward any of the odor be observe but control for by counterbalancing .
a total of 100 – 300 trial be perform each day , separate into 30 - to 40 - min stretch to ensure maximal motivation despite the mild water restriction scheme .
additionally , motivation be control by monitor intertrial interval and the response frequency [ 3 ] .
measurement of performance
the simple measure of performance be the fraction of trial in which the animal respond correctly — that is , respond with licking to the presentation of the s + odor and do not lick with presentation of the s − odor .
it be show previously , however , that the detailed sampling pattern be a more sensitive measure of discrimination performance [ 3 ] .
to avoid long ( > 3 - week ) training period , we choose not to measure discrimination time [ 3 ] but to analyze the average sampling behavior in total .
upon presentation of a reward odor , the animal usually continuously break the beam , whereas upon presentation of an unrewarded odor the head be quickly retract .
the difference in response to the reward and unrewarded odor be approximately sigmoidal ( figure 1d , 1e , and 2d ) and yield a sensitive measure of the discrimination performance .
from this difference or from a sigmoidal fit to the difference ( figure 1e ) , several measure of discrimination can be determine : the average difference , peak , or maximum , time of half maximum , and slope of the fit sigmoid .
whereas for small trial number ( < 200 ) the slope often be not well constrain , any of the other parameter yield essentially the same result .
the discrimination index plot in figure 1f , 2c , 4d , and 6c refer to the fit maximum , generally range from zero to one , one indicate the best discrimination .
identical result be obtain with other measure of discrimination , such a the average sampling difference .
structure of training
after habituation , mouse be train to discriminate 1 % amylacetate from 1 % ethylbutyrate for 500 trial .
during the last 100 trial , the s + odor be reward in only 50 % of the case to increase the resistance to extinction of the acquire memory .
these trial be exclude for the statistical analysis of the learning curve .
inclusion do not alter the result of the anova ; however , linear fitting of the learning curve be not appropriate anymore a partial saturation of learning performance have already occur .
subsequently , animal be train for 500 trial on the “ difficult ” discrimination task [ 3 ] between the binary mixture 0.6 % eugenol / 0.4 % cineol and 0.4 % eugenol / 0.6 % cineol .
to allow comparison , the last 100 trial be alter a for the “ simple ” discrimination task above .
after two day of rest , animal be finally train on the “ simple ” discrimination task between 1 % pelargonic acid and 1 % valeric acid for another 600 trial .
in all experiment , counterbalance between both odor and setup be ensure within and between genetic group , or result be compare with counterbalance subgroup , which in every case yield identical result .
during the entire course of the experiment , the person handle the animal and operate the olfactometers be blind to the genotype of the mouse .
memory measurement
to assess memory , after 280 trial of training to discriminate between pelargonic acid and valeric acid , memory trial be interleave for 120 trial ; that is , within each block of 20 trial two unrewarded amylacetate and two unrewarded ethylbutyrate trial be include .
memory score be give a the fraction of those unrewarded trial that be respond to “ correctly ” ( licking response to the odor that be reward in the initial training session [ s + ] , no response to the odor that be not reward initially [ s − ] ) .
due to the epileptic phenotype and the slightly increase mortality [ 58 ] , glurbδecs : fb mouse be train only for the initial period of 400 trial .
statistic
learning curve for both correct performance ( “ percentage correct ” ) and the discrimination performance be analyze by repeat measure anova .
additionally , learning curve be assess by linearly fit of trend line to the data with fix offset , leave the slope a the only variable .
in general , bin be 100 trial per block .
to allow for the investigation of group / block interaction , the repeat measure anova binning be reduce to 20 trial per block .
to compare memory performance in the glur - brescue ( n = 8 ) and glur - bδfb ( n = 22 ) mouse , due to the high variability , a bootstrap approach be employ .
subpopulation of eight animal be select from the population of 22 glur - bδfb mouse , and mean memory be determine .
in only 343 out of 20,000 subpopulation , mean memory exceed the mean glur - brescue memory of 74.99 % , result in a p value of p = 343 / 20,000 = 0.017 .
support information
figure s1
forebrain - specific gene manipulation
( a ) schematic diagram depict cre under the αcamkii promoter control [ 59 ] and cre - dependent expression of β - galactosidase ( lacz ) by the r26r indicator mouse [ 85 ] .
( b ) coronal forebrain section ( left ) and sagittal brainstem / cerebellum section of mouse at p42 positive for tgcre4 and r26r cre - indicator .
cre expression visualize by enzymatic β - galactosidase activity ( blue , x - gal , counterstain by eosin ) of r26r and by anti-cre immunostainings ( brown , dab [ diaminobenzadine ] ) be restrict to forebrain region .
scale bar : 1 mm .
a , amygdala ; ce , cerebellum ; cx , cortex ; h , hippocampus ; me , medulla oblongata .
( c ) olfactory bulb section of the same mouse to visualize cre expression by cre immunoreactivity ( left , dab ) and by enzymatic β - galactosidase activity ( right , x - gal , counterstain by eosin ) in granule cell ( gc ) and mitral cell ( mc ) a indicate by arrow .
scale bar : 400 μm ( upper panel ) , 50 μm ( low panel ) .
( 3.4 mb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
performance of glur - bδfb ( n = 10 ) and littermate control ( n = 10 ) mouse in a spatial reference task on the elevate y - maze
detail of the methodology be describe in [ 90 ] .
* indicate p < 0.05 .
( 126 kb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
memory deficit be not due to increase extinction
( a ) memory performance a a function of time for the experiment describe in figure 2e ( nine glur - bδfb and nine glur - b2lox control animal ) .
only four unrewarded “ memory + ” trial be bin for each data point .
memory of glur - bδfb animal be significantly reduce ( f ( 1 , 33 ) = 17 ; p < 0.001 ) .
whereas a weak overall time effect could be observe ( f ( 2 , 66 ) = 3.6 ; p = 0.03 ) , there be no genotype - time interaction effect ( f ( 2 , 66 ) = 0.67 ; p = 0.5 ) , indicate that there be no differential effect of putative extinction on memory performance .
* indicate p - value for a mann - whitney u test ( * < 0.05 , ** < 0.01 ) .
( b ) after the memory experiment from figure 6a , the last set of animal ( eight glur - brescue , four glur - bδfb , and three control ) be far train on aa versus eb for 900 trial one week after the memory experiment .
subsequently , training continue on aa / eb mixture for 1,200 trial .
finally , the animal be retrain on aa and eb for 100 trial .
relearn performance during the last retraining task be highly correlate to the original memory performance ( r2 = 0.46 , p = 0.006 , n = 15 ) .
( 264 kb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
absence of cre expression in the main olfactory epithelium of tgcre4 mouse
( a ) overview of the main olfactory epithelium .
( b ) high magnification of ( a ) show all cell with propidium iodide ( red ) and absence of cre - positive cell ( green , anti-cre ) .
( c ) positive control show granule cell of the dentate gyrus stain for nuclear cre ( green ) from the same mouse .
( 3.7 mb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
the author want to thank troy margrie and bert sakmann for support , encouragement , and discussion ; onyeka nobuka for help with the construct ocn ; mark mayford for the αcamkii promoter ; bettina suchanek for the nr2c silencer ; annette herold , juliana kling , and christiane zacher for experimental and technical support ; nixon abraham for assistance with some behavioral experiment ; and david bannerman , thomas kuner , and pavel osten for critically read early version of the manuscript .
this work be support by a deutsche forschungsgemeinschaft grant ( sfb 636 ) to r , the heidelberger akademie der wissenschaften , the boeringer ingelheim fonds , and the leopoldina akademie der wissenschaften to at , the bmbf , and the mpg .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
abbreviation
ampa - α - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolepropionate
ampar - α - amino - 3 - hydroxy - 5 - methyl - 4 - isoxazolepropionate receptor
bp - basepair
gfp - green fluorescent protein
ltp - long - term plasticity
nmda - n - methyl - d - aspartate
q - glutamine
r - arginine
figure and table
figure 1
odor learning and discrimination be enhance in glur - bδecs : fb mouse
( a ) schematic diagram depict cre - mediate activation of glur - b ( q ) by remove the loxp - flank tk - neo ( tk - neo pa , glur - bneo ) element in intron 11 , which be act a a suppressor in expression from the q / r site editing deficient glur - bneo allele .
exon 10 and 11 encode membrane - span segment 1 , 2 , and 3 ( m1 , 2 , 3 ) of the glur - b subunit .
the intronic element necessary for edit the q / r site be show for the wild - type allele ( + ) .
( b ) scheme of an individual trial .
break a light barrier , the mouse initiate a trial .
an odor be present , and ( depend on the odor denotation and the mouse 's response ) the mouse be reward or retract it head .
a small ( 2 - to 4 - μl ) water reward be give at the end of an s + odor if the mouse continuously lick at the delivery tube during the 2 - s trial .
a trial be count a correct if the mouse lick continuously upon presentation of a reward ( s + ) odor or do not lick continuously with a nonrewarded ( s − ) odor [ 3 ] .
( c ) twelve experimentally naïve animal ( six glur - bδecs : fb [ orange ] and six glur - b + / + littermate control [ black ] ) be train on 1 % aa versus 1 % eb for two task of 200 trial each .
both group acquire the task ( > 70 % correct ) ; however , the glur - bδecs : fb be both quick , and perform well overall , than the littermate control ( group effect : f ( 1 , 10 ) = 10.2 ; p < 0.01 ) .
aa , amylacetate ; eb , ethylbutyrate .
( d ) average head position for one mouse and 50 presentation of the s + ( green ) and 50 presentation of the s − ( red ) odor .
“ 1 ” indicate the breaking of the light beam ( head in the sampling port [ 3 ] ) .
note the rapid head retraction for the s − odor .
( e ) difference of the average head position from ( d ) for s + and s − odor .
blue line indicate sigmoidal fit .
“ discrimination index ” refer to the maximum of the fit sigmoid .
( f ) a ( c ) but depict the discrimination index a a function of trial number ( group effect : f ( 1 , 10 ) = 1.7 ; p < 0.01 ) .
figure 2
odor learning and discrimination be enhance , but odor memory be reduce in glur - bδfb mouse
( a ) schematic diagram depict cre - mediate ablation of loxp - flank exon 11 of the glur - b allele .
( b and c ) nine glur - bδfb ( red ) and nine glurb2lox littermate control ( black ) be train for successive odor discrimination task on 1 % aa versus 1 % eb ( 400 trial ) , 0.4 % cin / 0.6 % eu versus 0.6 % cin / 0.4 % eu ( 400 trial ) and 1 % pel versus 1 % val .
glur - bδfb mouse show increase learning / discrimination compare with control , both use the performance a measure by percentage of correct trial ( [ b ] ; group effect : f1 , 16 = 6.55 , p < 0.05 ) or the discrimination index ( c ) , that be the maximal difference of the sampling pattern ( see material and method and figure 1d – 1f ; f1 , 16 = 29.5 , p < 10 − 4 ) .
( d ) sampling difference for the last 100 trial of the mixture discrimination task ( indicate with a black arrow in [ c ] ) for all 18 individual mouse .
note that the glur - bδfb mouse show a consistently large sampling difference .
( e ) olfactory memory performance for nine littermate control ( black ) and nine glur - bδfb ( red ) mouse .
olfactory memory be test at the time indicate by the black bar in ( c ) by interleave the pel and val trial with unrewarded aa and eb trial .
aa , amylacetate ; cin , cineol ; eb , ethylbutyrate ; eu , eugenol ; pel , pelargonic acid ; val , valeric acid .
figure 3
variability of cre expression of mouse line tgcre4
( a ) variable cre expression in forebrain of three different mouse positive for tgcre4 and r26r cre indicator ( see figure s1 ) at postnatal day 12 picture by the cre - dependent β - galactosidase activity ( blue , x - gal , counterstain by eosin ) in coronal brain slice .
scale bar : 1.25 mm .
( b ) southern blot analysis of bglii - digest genomic mouse dna of four tgcre4 mouse that differ in the cre expression pattern .
southern probe detect the wild - type ( 4.5 kbp ) and the transgenic ( 7 , 5 , 3 , and 2 kbp ) allele .
figure 4
olfactory memory but not odor learning / discrimination be correlate with residual glur - b level in hippocampus and forebrain of glur - bδfb mouse
( a ) the olfactory memory performance for 18 glur - bδfb ( red ) and 11 littermate control ( black ) mouse be give a mean ( thick line ± sem ) and a individual performance in open circle and triangle .
arrow with number ( # ) indicate those mouse use in experiment ( b – c ) .
data be combine from figure 2 ( open symbol ) and an additional experiment with nine glur - bδfb and two littermate control ( shade symbol ) .
( b and c ) residual glur - b level a detect by anti-glur - b immunofluorescence in hippocampus , amygdala , piriform cortex , and olfactory bulb of one control ( # 1 ) and two glur - bδfb ( # 2 and # 3 ) coronal mouse brain section ( b ) and by immunoblot analysis from hippocampal ( hip ) , cortical forebrain ( fb ) , and olfactory bulb ( ob ) protein extract of control ( # 4 ) and glur - bδfb mouse ( # 5 , # 6 , # 7 , and # 8 ) probe with antibody detect glur - b and β - actin a an internal loading control ( c ) .
scale bar : 200 μm ( first panel ) , 100 μm ( other panel ) .
( d ) from ten glur - bδfb mouse , the individual odor learning / discrimination and olfactory memory performance be determine together with the relative glur - b level in immunoblots of hippocampal , forebrain , and olfactory bulb protein extract .
memory performance ( top panel ) and discrimination capability ( bottom panel ; discrimination index be measure for the last 100 trial of the mixture discrimination task a indicate by the arrow in figure 2c ) be plot against glur - b level .
memory be tightly correlate to glur - b protein level in hippocampus ( r2 = 0.72 ; p < 0.003 ) and cortical forebrain ( r2 = 0.62 ; p < 0.006 ) and only weakly in the olfactory bulb ( r2 = 0.48 ; p = 0.03 ) .
no measure of learning / discrimination ( discrimination index for last 100 mixture trial [ d ] , slope of trend line , average discrimination index , average sampling pattern difference , correct performance , etc. [ not show ] ) display any correlation ( r2 < 0.3 ) .
figure 5
specific hippocampus and piriform cortex expression of transgenic gfpglur - b
( a ) schematic diagram depict forebrain - specific glur - b deletion a in figure 2a and itta - dependent expression of gfpglur - b and nuclear - localize β - galactosidase ( nlacz ) in glur - bδfb mouse ( term glur - brescue ) .
gfpglur - b and nlacz be both encode by tgocn1 , and itta be control by a fusion of the nr2c silencer element [ 91 ] and the αcamkii promoter ( term tgcn12 - itta [ 92 ] ) .
( b ) in coronal brain section of mouse positive for both transgene ( tgcn12 - itta and tgocn1 ) β - galactosidase activity ( blue , x - gal , counterstain by eosin ) be restrict to hippocampal neuron in ca1 , dg , and neuron in the piriform cortex .
the same neuron show gfpglur - b expression when analyze in immunohistochemical section with an antibody against gfp .
scale bar : 500 μm .
( c ) immunoblot detect endogenous glur - b and transgenic gfpglur - b in the hippocampus of three different mouse ( # 1 , # 2 , # 3 ) .
( d ) relative quantification from ( c ) of transgenic gfpglur - b compare with endogenous glur - b in the hippocampus .
figure 6
glur - b expression in hippocampus and forebrain partially rescue the memory deficit of glur - bδfb mouse
( a ) olfactory memory experiment a in figure 2 be perform with glur - brescue .
individual mouse be indicate : control glur - b2lox with black circle , glur - bδfb with red triangle , glur - brescue with green square .
data be combine from figure 3 and 4 ( open symbol ) and an additional experiment with four glur - bδfb , three littermate control , and eight glur - brescue ( shade symbol ) .
( b ) cumulative histogram of the memory performance .
memory performance be indicate a a stepped line .
the sigmoidal fit be indicate a a continuous line .
the predict rescue on the basis of the extent of transgenic gfpglur - b expression ( figure 5d ) and the correlation between memory and glur - b level in piriform cortex ( 9.1 ± 2.5 % increase in memory for 10 % increase in protein , figure 4d ) be show in blue .
note that the predict rescue be in perfect numerical correspondence to the memory performance of glur - brescue mouse .
( c ) the discrimination index be calculate a in figure 1e , 2c , and 4d ( last 100 trial of the mixture discrimination task ) for glurbrescue ( n = 8 ) , glur - bδfb ( n = 22 ) , and control ( n = 14 ) animal .
footnote
author contribution .
drs and at conceive and design most of the experiment .
the manuscript be write by drs , ph , r , and at .
mouse line be conceive and design by drs , ph , r ( glur - bδfb , glur - bδecs : fb ) ; drs , ph , r , at ( glur - brescue ) ; jk , ph , r ( tgcn12 - itta ) ; and vm , ph , r ( glur - b2lox , tgocn1 ) .
olfactory behavioral experiment be do by tb and at ; am perform the gfpglur - b western blot ; immunohistochemical experiment and other western blot as well a the nonolfactory behavioral experiment be perform by drs .
¤ current address : department of physiology , university college london , london , united kingdom
citation : shimshek dr , bus t , kim j , mihaljevic a , mack v , et al. ( 2005 ) enhance odor discrimination and impair olfactory memory by spatially control switch of ampa receptor .
plo biol 3 ( 11 ) : e354 .
complex seizure disorder cause by brunol4 deficiency in mouse
abstract
idiopathic epilepsy be a common human disorder with a strong genetic component , usually exhibit complex inheritance .
we describe a new mouse mutation in c57bl / 6j mouse , call frequent - flyer ( ff ) , in which disruption of the gene encode rna - bind protein bruno - like 4 ( brunol4 ) lead to limbic and severe tonic – clonic seizure in heterozygous mutant begin in their third month .
young heterozygous adult have a reduce seizure threshold .
although homozygote do not survive well on the c57bl / 6j background , on mix background homozygote and some heterozygote also display spike - wave discharge , the electroencephalographic manifestation of absence epilepsy .
brunol4 be widely express in the brain with enrichment in the hippocampus .
gene expression profiling and subsequent analysis reveal the down - regulation of at least four rna molecule encode protein know to be involve in neuroexcitability , particularly in mutant hippocampus .
genetic and phenotypic assessment suggest that brunol4 deficiency in mouse result in a complex seizure phenotype , likely due to the coordinate dysregulation of several molecule , provide a unique new animal model of epilepsy that mimic the complex genetic architecture of common disease .
author summary
epilepsy be a very common brain disorder characterize by recurrent seizure , result from abnormal nerve cell activity in the brain .
some case of epilepsy be cause by brain trauma , such a stroke , infection , tumor , or head injury .
others — so call “ idiopathic ” — do not have a clear cause .
many idiopathic epilepsy run in family , but the inheritance pattern and complex seizure type suggest that they be not due to a single defective gene but instead be cause by multiple gene defect that be inherit simultaneously in a patient .
this complex inheritance make it difficult to pinpoint the underlie defect .
here , we describe a new mutant mouse , call “ frequent - flyer , ” which have several different type of seizure .
although these seizure be cause by a mutation in a single gene , because this gene regulate the expression of many other gene , which , in turn , cause abnormal nerve cell activity , frequent - flyer mouse provide a unique animal model of epilepsy — mimic the complex genetic architecture of common disease .
introduction
epilepsy , define by recurrent seizure result from abnormal , synchronize neuronal firing in the brain , be a very common neurological disorder .
idiopathic epilepsy do not have any antecedent disease or injury to the brain and many be suspect to have a genetic basis .
the difficulty of elucidate defective gene underlie common inherit epilepsy be that they be genetically complex — be cause by multiple variant that be coinherited in affect individual [ 1 , 2 ] .
to date , most mutation involve in idiopathic epilepsy have be find in gene encode ion channel or their accessory subunit with a few exception , for example , lgi1 [ 3 ] and efhc1 [ 4 ] in human , [ 5 ] and jrk / jh8 [ 6 , 7 ] in both human and mouse .
such exception be of interest in that they may lead to further understanding of epilepsy disease mechanism beyond primary excitability defect , for example , by identification of gene that modulate the expression or function of the more proximal candidate for epilepsy — ion channel , neurotransmitter receptor , and synaptic protein .
here we describe the disruption of the expression of an rna - bind protein , brunol4 ( bruno - like 4 ) lead to partial limbic and tonic – clonic seizure in a new mouse model of epilepsy call “ frequent - flyer ” ( abbreviate ff ; gene symbol : brunol4ff ) .
brunol4 ( also know a celf4 , cug - bp , and etr - 3 like factor 4 ) belong to a family of rna - bind protein involve in multiple aspect of rna processing such a pre-mrna splicing [ 8 ] , mrna editing [ 9 ] , and rna stability and translation [ 10 ] .
there be six family member in both human and mouse with orthologs in nematode and fruit fly [ 11 ] .
the murine and human brunol4 be 99.6 % identical at the amino acid level [ 12 ] .
mouse knockout have very recently be publish for brunol1 and brunol2 , which display spermatagonial and vary developmental defect , respectively [ 13 , 14 ] .
unc - 75 , a neuron - specific ortholog in c. elegans , share 47 % identity with the human brunol4 protein .
unc - 75 deficiency in the nematode lead to behavioral phenotype indicative of abnormal neurotransmission .
human brunol4 can rescue the unc - 75 mutant phenotype , suggest that unc - 75 and brunol4 may be involve in fine - tune synaptic transmission through regulate rna processing in the nervous system [ 15 ] .
in this study we describe the seizure phenotype of mouse carry brunol4 disruption , and begin to explore the molecular consequence use gene expression profiling and genetic interaction test .
our study suggest that brunol4 deficiency alter the expression of several molecule involve in synaptic function , which , when combine , account for the complex seizure disorder of frequent - flyer mouse .
result
origin of the mutation and convulsive seizure phenotype
the ff mutation arise from an independent project in which a series of transgenic mouse line be generate on the c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) strain background .
one line ( 9 / 9 transgene carrier ) develop frequent seizure from about three month of age , precipitate by routine handling such a cage transfer .
since the transgene construct be not express in all the line and since other line use the same construct do not have seizure , together suggest that the seizure be not cause by transgene expression per se .
to distinguish between an unlinked spontaneous mutation and insertional mutagenesis , affect mouse be outcrossed to normal b6 mouse .
in the next generation , seizure cosegregated with the presence of the transgene ( 25 / 28 carrier display seizure versus 0 / 22 non-carriers ) , suggest a high - penetrance , dominant mode of inheritance for the seizure phenotype .
convulsive seizure range in severity , the mild be muscle twitch in the face and neck , forelimb clonus , and salivation ( figure 1a ) .
more severe seizure include rearing and falling , myoclonic jerk , and arching of the back and tail .
in many case , convulsion be follow by a very wild running – bouncing phase with occasional tonic – clonic hindlimb extension , but which , unlike the equivalent phase of some induce seizure , do not result in lethality .
hence , the allele symbol “ frequent - flyer ” ( ff ) be assign .
the incidence of these handling - associate seizure be high in male than in female mouse .
figure 1
phenotype of ff mutant mouse
( a ) the posture of a 3 - mo - old ff / + heterozygote mouse at the beginning of a seizure episode .
note the contraction of the muscle of the neck , ear , and forelimb and the vertical position of the tail .
( b ) reduce ect of ff / + mouse .
the median response level ( cc50 ) for minimal seizure be a follow + / + = 9.17 ma ( 95 % ci 8.83 – 9.44 ) , ff / + = 7.69 ma ( 95 % ci 7.48 – 7.9 ) .
square ( □ ) and triangle ( ▵ ) indicate individual data point use to construct cc curve in + / + and ff / + mouse , respectively .
( c ) late - onset body - weight gain in ff / + heterozygous mouse .
we monitor the body weight between the age of 12 wk and 34 wk of more than 50 male mouse with similar number of mutant and control .
single - cage mouse be exclude from this study .
each mouse be weigh every other week .
the body weight of mutant do not diverge significantly from those of control until 28 wk of age and the divergence remain afterwards ( t - test , assume two - tail distribution and two - sample equal variance , the p - value be 0.024 , 0.004 , 0.0011 , and 0.001 from 28 wk to 34 wk ) .
the average weight of each genotype at a fix time - point be plot against time to generate a growth curve use microsoft excel ( http://www.microsoft.com/ ) .
( d ) eeg record from a ff / ff homozygous mouse .
show be the six differential recording from four subcranial electrode , one in each quadrant correspond to front - right ( fr ) , front - left ( fl ) , back - right ( br ) , and back - left ( bl ) .
these trace correspond to one of the long spike - wave discharge ( swd ) episode observe .
( e ) treatment of swd in ff / ff homozygous f2 hybrid mouse from cross to fvb ( white box ) or 129s1 ( black ) .
record session begin at least 1 h prior to ethosuximide , saline , or fluoxetine ( prozac ) treatment , and the rate of swd ( minimum criterion : ≥ 0.5 s duration , amplitude ≥ 2 × baseline ) be determine and plot ( “ pre ” ) .
animal be then inject with drug , monitor for an additional hour , and swd incidence be record ( post ) .
line between datapoints correspond to each animal pre - and post-treatment .
only the ethosuximide and fluoxetine result be significantly different compare treatment ( etx , p = 0.009 ; fluoxetine , p = 0.019 ; saline , p = 0.804 match pair test ) .
although handling - associate seizure do not begin until the third month of age , by 7 wk heterozygote have markedly reduce electroconvulsive threshold ( ect ) ( figure 1b ) .
in addition to convulsive seizure phenotype , heterozygote be also slightly hyperactive , and while slightly small at weaning age , they have a late - onset body weight gain in ff / + heterozygote ( on average 10 % heavy than littermate control , figure 1c ) .
despite the high frequency and the severity of seizure , ff / + heterozygote do not have a reduce life span ( analyze up to 24 mo of age ) .
the morphology of the ff / + brain appear normal , a evident in the proper cortical and hippocampal layering and the lack of overt gliosis ( unpublished data ) .
strain background effect on frequent - flyer phenotype
ff / ff homozygote , however , have a much more severe phenotype ; they be bear alive at close to mendelian ratio but most die during the first day .
from mating between heterozygote , only 1.1 % ( expect 25 % ) survive until 4 wk of age ( table 1 ) .
while alive , homozygote do not display obvious sign of convulsion or respiratory stress , nor be there any obvious pathology see in mutant brain ( unpublished data ) .
future work will be need to clarify the cause of perinatal lethality in ff / ff homozygote .
however , when we examine the f2 generation of mating between b6 - ff / + and six different inbred mouse strain , a range of survival rate of homozygote be observe be with the high be 8.2 % in cross with 129s1 ( table 1 ) , suggest that homozygosity for b6 allele ( s ) make the homozygous phenotype bad , a be the case with many neurological mutation in mouse ( e.g. , see [ 16 ] ) .
interestingly , although these f2 hybrid homozygote often live for more than 6 mo , they be small than littermates and also exhibit spontaneous limbic and tonic – clonic seizure , similar in appearance to those of ff / + heterozygote , except they be observe as early a 8 wk ( and we suspect that lethal seizure occur as early a 4 wk ) .
in addition , ff / + heterozygote on f1 hybrid background experience a low incidence of convulsive seizure later in life ( unpublished data ) .
these result show that inbred strain have polymorphism that attenuate the frequent - flyer phenotype .
table 1
survival of brunol4ff / ff homozygous mutant in f2 generation
absence epilepsy in frequent - flyer mutant
the availability of ff / ff homozygote on a mixed genetic background afford u the opportunity to determine whether they show spike - wave discharge ( swd ) , the electroencephalographic manifestation of absence seizure — event not observe in ff / + heterozygote on the b6 background ( unpublished data ) .
ff / ff homozygote test on the f2 hybrid background ( b6 × 129s1 or fvb / nj ) experience very frequent swd ( e.g. , see figure 1d and 1e ) .
interestingly , heterozygote in the fvb / nj cross , but not in the 129s1 cross , also show a significant rate of swd ( unpublished data ) .
together , these result suggest that not only do ff / ff homozygote have swd , but that the penetrance or severity be also modulate by genetic background .
although swd in ff / ff homozygote be synchronous , rhythmic , and generalize , when compare to those of other swd - prone mouse , such a stargazer or c3h / hej ( e.g. , see [ 17 , 18 ] ) , the episode be relatively short , average 1.5 s in length , and the rhythmicity be more erratic than in other mutant ( figure 1d ) .
nevertheless , the animal remain motionless during swd episode , and swd be suppress by the anti-absence drug ethosuximide ( figure 1e , left ) , suggest that they be absence seizure .
transgenic insertion mutation in brunol4
to determine the identity of the gene disrupt by transgenic insertion , we clone and sequence a unique transgene - genomic junction fragment ( see material and method ) and find a 100 % match to intron 1 of the brunol4 gene on mouse chr 18 .
we then evaluate the impact of transgene insertion on brunol4 expression .
the insertion expand the 74 - kb intron 1 of brunol4 by at least 20 kb , well upstream of the exon encode rna binding motif ( www.ensembl.org/mus_musculus , figure 2 ) .
multiple splice donor and acceptor site be detect in the transgene , suggest the possibility of the insertion interfere with normal brunol4 splicing .
in total rna sample from newborn mouse , no brunol4 transcript be detect in ff / ff homozygote and approximately 45 % reduction be see in heterozygote ( figure 3a ) ; by real - time reverse - transcriptase pcr ( rt - pcr ) , similar reduction be observe in the adult brain of ff / + heterozygote ( figure 3b ) .
we also examine the potential impact of the transgene on the expression of the neighbor gene .
the genomic region where murine brunol4 reside be gene poor .
gene with strong annotation be at least 0.5 mb either 5 ′ or 3 ′ away from brunol4 .
expression analysis of the neighbor gene with potential brain function do not reveal difference between ff / ff homozygous mutant and normal control ( unpublished data ) , suggest that brunol4 be the only brain - express gene affect by the transgene insertion .
this be consistent with preliminary assessment of a gene - target null allele of brunol4 that we make recently , which display handling - associate seizure in old adult , resemble those of frequent - flyer mouse with both limbic and wild tonic - clonic phase ; young heterozygote also have an unusually low threshold to electroconvulsion ( c. l. mahaffey , w. n. frankel , unpublished result ) .
figure 2
trangene insertion into the brunol4 locus in ff mouse
( a ) physical map of the transgene insertion point in the first intron of brunol4 gene on mouse chromosome 18 .
the exact number of copy of the transgene insert be currently unknown .
it appear to be more than four copy base on a southern blot probe with a transgene - specific probe .
the transgene insertion event be a simple addition at the 5 ′ end , but appear complex at the 3 ′ end .
the last intact copy of the transgene be invert to the opposite orientation and there be an 18 - kb deletion in the genomic sequence at the 3 ′ insertion site .
far , a 397 - nt fragment from the transgene be leave between the last intact copy of the transgene and the intronic sequence from brunol4 .
this 397 - nt fragment be in the same orientation a that of the transgene at the 5 ′ insertion site .
the telomeric breakpoint of the transgene insertion be 28,987 nt from the exon 1 splice donor and the centromeric breakpoint be 27,056 nt from the exon 2 splice acceptor .
( b ) the exon / intron structure of the mouse brunol4 gene .
note the orientation of the gene be reverse from ( a ) to facilitate viewing .
the open reading frame start in exon 1 and end in exon 12 .
three rna recognition motif be predict in the brunol4 peptide sequence and the respective coding exon be mark .
figure 3
expression of brunol4 in mutant and wild - type mouse
( a ) reduce brunol4 transcript abundance in ff / + mouse .
newborn brain total rna blot be probe with brunol4 p1 probe ( upper portion ) and a mouse β - actin probe ( low portion ) sequentially .
brunol4 transcript be absent from ff / ff homozygous newborn , and reduce in abundance in littermate + / + control .
an arrow indicate the position of the brunol4 transcript .
( b ) relative fold change of brunol4 by real - time rt - pcr ) show in total rna from adult cortex in three independent mouse of each genotype .
similar result be observe from all other brain region .
( c ) the expression of brunol4 be restrict to the brain in adult mouse .
an rna blot contain poly - a select rna extract from various adult mouse tissue be sequentially hybridize with probe specific to brunol4 and β - actin a a loading control .
the position of the size marker ( ambion , http://www.ambion.com ) be show to the left side of panel .
in order to evaluate the expression pattern of brunol4 in adult , we examine rna from a variety of tissue .
only brain sample show robust signal , despite prolong exposure time , suggest that brunol4 be brain specific in adult ( figure 3c ) , consistent with a recent survey of organ protein expression in mouse that detect brunol4 only in the brain [ 19 ] .
at a high resolution , brunol4 show a predominantly neuronal expression pattern in the brain — label be see in the cerebral cortex , hippocampus , olfactory bulb , and the granule cell layer of the cerebellum ( figure 4 ) .
however , strong expression in the brain be observe in the hippocampus where high expression be detect in the pyramidal neuron of the ca2 and ca3 region .
pyramidal neuron in ca1 , the dentate gyrus granule cell , and the dentate subgranular zone have weak expression ( figure 4 ) ; the latter be interesting in light of the observation that some type of seizure activity may induce neurogenesis in this region ( e.g. , see [ 20 ] ) .
figure 4
brunol4 expression in normal adult mouse brain by rna in situ hybridization
a 33p label antisense riboprobe ( a ) or a sense control probe ( b ) be hybridize to 7 - μm parasagittal paraffin section of brain .
note the positive staining in the olfactory bulb , cerebral cortex , hippocampus , and cerebellum .
despite several attempt , persistent minor background signal be observe at the edge of the brain section , especially in the cerebellum .
in order to increase the specificity and well monitor the signal development , a dig - label antisense riboprobe ( c ) or a sense control probe ( d ) be hybridize to 15 - μm parasagittal cryosections of brain .
representative image be show focus on the entire hippocampus .
note the intense labeling ( blue color ) in the ca2 and ca3 region , consistent with the strong hipocampal signal see in panel ( a ) .
cb , cerebellum ; co , cerebral cortex ; hi , hippocampus ; ob , olfactory bulb .
neuroexcitability candidate down - regulate in mutant mouse
how might brunol4 deficiency result in a complex seizure phenotype ?
we hypothesize that brunol4 be involve in the processing event of one or more mrna - encode protein that be themselves more directly involve in synaptic function .
thus , in the absence or reduction of brunol4 , these molecule become dysregulated , lead to imbalance in neuronal excitability .
we carry out microarray analysis to detect gene differentially express between coisogenic wild - type and mutant mouse .
for the primary screen , newborn ff / ff homozygous mutant be choose to optimize the signal differential .
of the approximately 39,000 transcript interrogate , change in only 459 transcript ( correspond to approximately 350 independent gene ) be consider statistically significant in the ff / ff homozygote compare with control ( table s1 ) .
of the 94 down - regulate transcript ( from approximately 70 independent gene ) , the most reduce be brunol4 itself , with a significant decrease in ff / ff homozygote .
four gene from the down - regulate list be of obvious interest for an excitability disorder .
one encode serotonin receptor 2c ( htr2c ) ; htr2c - null mouse be know to experience frequent spontaneous seizure , at least on a mix background , as well a a reduce seizure threshold [ 21 ] .
the second encode synapsin ii ( syn2 ) ; seizure precipitate by sensory stimulus be find previously in syn2 - knockout mouse [ 22 ] .
the third encode n - ethylmaleimide - sensitive factor ( nsf ) , which regulate exocytosis in synaptic transmission , as well a ampa receptor trafficking [ 23 , 24 ] .
the fourth encode α - synuclein ( snca ) , a neuron - specific presynaptic protein [ 25 ] .
all four molecule have be find in the pyramidal neuron in the hippocampus where brunol4 be highly expressed [ 25 – 28 ] .
in particular , the expression of nsf [ 27 ] and synapsin ii [ 28 ] be enrich in the ca2 - ca3 region , similar to that of brunol4 .
after confirm the differential expression of all four transcript in ff / ff - homozygous newborn mouse ( unpublished data ) , expression level be assess in adult ff / + heterozygous brain region .
all four rna have , on average , a 20 % – 25 % reduction in the b6 - ff / + hippocampus compare with control ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
moreover , these candidate show a significant reduction at the protein level in adult hippocampus of b6 - ff / + mouse ( 30 % – 39 % ; unpublished data ) , and on a mix background in ff / + and ff / ff , ( 25 % – 32 % ff / + ; 32 % – 56 % ff / ff , figure 5c and 5d ) .
these region - specific decrease before the onset of seizure be consistent with the limbic - seizure phenotype and the overlap hippocampal expression of the four gene with that of brunol4 .
figure 5
reduce expression of four candidate gene in ff / + brain
( a ) representative image from three independent rna blot .
sequential hybridization use htr2c , nsf , snca , syn2 , gabrb3 , and β - actin probe be carry out on a blot contain poly - a rna extract from dissect brain region .
the synapsin ii probe detect both synapsin iia and iib transcript due to alternative splicing / polyadenylation [ 40 ] and there be no overt change in the synapsin 2a / 2b ratio between ff / + and + / + brain .
in addition to the loading control actin , we examine the expression of gabrb3 , which encode the β3 subunit of the gaba ( a ) receptor .
germline targeting of gabrb3 cause perinatal lethality in homozygous mouse and overt seizure in heterozygote [ 41 ] .
no significant expression difference be find between ff / + and + / + brain .
the position of size marker ( ambion ) be show on the left .
co , cerebral cortex ; hb , hindbrain ; hi , hippocampus .
f , ff / + ; + , + / + .
( b ) histogram summarize result from northern blot , express a percent of wild type after normalization to β - actin .
( c ) reduce expression at the protein level ; western blot for htr2a , htr2c , nsf , synapsin ii , α - synuclein , and β - tubulin .
htr2a , a molecule with distribution and property similar to htr2c , be use a a control in addition to β - tubulin .
representative image from experiment with three independent adult mouse on a mix background be show .
( d ) histogram summarize result from ( c ) in ff / + and ff / ff mutant on a mix background , express a % of wild type after normalization to β - tubulin , summarize data from three independent animal .
error bar throughout be one standard deviation .
htr2c deficiency contribute to , but be not sufficient for , seizure phenotype in brunol4ff mutant
null mutant of the htr2c receptor gene have several phenotypic similarity with brunol4ff / + heterozygote , include reduce seizure threshold , hyperactivity , and late - onset weight gain [ 21 , 29 ] .
however , the fact that brunol4ff / + mouse on the b6 strain background experience frequent handling - provoke convulsive seizure after 3 mo of age , whereas htr2c null mutant do not ( y. yang , w. frankel , unpublished data ) , suggest that down - regulate htr2c receptor expression be not sufficient to account for the handling - induce seizure .
to determine whether htr2c deficiency be sufficient to account for the ect of brunol4ff / + mouse , we compare seizure threshold in wild - type , single - mutant , and double - mutant mouse ( figure 6 ) .
these study be all do on the b6 strain , to avoid the confounding effect of genetic background .
although the average seizure threshold of htr2c null mutant be low than that of brunol4ff / + mouse by approximately 2 ma , the threshold of double mutant be 1 ma low still ( p = 0.0003 ; | t | - test ) .
this suggest that factor in addition to reduce expression of htr2c contribute to seizure threshold in brunol4ff / + mouse .
another difference between htr2c and brunol4 mutant mouse be that htr2c - null mutant do not have swd ( [ 21 ] ; our unpublished observation ) .
however , we find that block serotonin reuptake in brunol4ff / ff homozygote by fluoxetine ( prozac ) treatment lower the swd incidence by about 50 % ( figure 1e , right ) — again suggest that htr2c down - regulation combine with other brunol4 - downstream deficiency to cause the seizure disorder of frequent - flyer mutant .
although further test be require to determine whether the other causative factor be syn2 , nsf , or snca specifically , it be clear that the seizure phenotype of brunol4ff be determine in a genetically complex manner .
figure 6
genetic interaction between brunol4 and htr2c for ect
show be a histogram of average threshold ( in ma ) to a minimal clonic or maximal tonic hindlimb extension seizure , determine a describe in material and method , for wild - type ( + / + , + / + ) , single mutant ( ff / + , + / + or b6 - htr2ctm1jul / y ) , or double mutant ( ff / + ; htr2ctm1jul / y ) , littermates from cross between b6 - htr2ctm1jul / y and b6 - ff / + mouse .
discussion
here , we report on the causal association between brunol4 , encode a brain - specific rna - bind protein , and the seizure disorder of frequent - flyer mouse mutant .
the origin of the disorder be a transgenic insertion in the brunol4 gene , result in very little brunol4 transcript in homozygote and accordingly reduce amount in heterozygote — suggest haploinsufficiency .
we do not know why the transcript level be very low , but one possibility be due to the invert repeat in the transgene cluster , create a potential hairpin structure that may prevent read - through transcription ( figure 2 ) .
brunol4ff mutant mouse have several different kind of seizure , depend upon genotype , age , and strain background .
in heterozygote on a b6 inbred strain background , these include recurrent limbic and tonic – clonic seizure — observe readily follow routine animal handling after 3 mo of age — and a significantly low ect at an early age .
although homozygote do not usually survive on a c57bl / 6j strain background , on f2 hybrid background homozygote ( and some heterozygote ) that survive also display spike - wave discharge , the hallmark of absence epilepsy .
the prospect of a defective rna - bind protein such a brunol4 cause a complex seizure disorder suggest a way in which a single gene defect can mimic a complex genetic disease , by impair the function of multiple molecule simultaneously .
this could happen either a a direct consequence of it absence , or secondarily , e.g. , a cascade of effect .
microarray analysis between homozygous mutant and coisogenic control brain yield a small number of down - regulate transcript that be statistically significant , two of which ( htr2c and syn2 ) be already know to cause seizure - relate phenotype when knock out in mouse [ 21 , 22 ] , and two other ( nsf and snca ) have obvious function that relate to synaptic transmission .
the down - regulation of each be confirm in adult , and be great in the hippocampus , where brunol4 expression be high .
interestingly , in addition to seizure susceptibility , ff / + heterozygote display two nonseizure phenotype like those of htr2c null mutant : mild hyperactivity and late - onset obesity [ 21 , 30 , 31 ] .
this might suggest that compromise serotonergic transmission be the major factor of the frequent - flyer phenotype .
however , because htr2c expression be reduce only modestly ( ∼ 25 % rna , ∼ 35 % protein ) in ff / + heterozygote , compare with complete loss in htr2c - null mouse , it seem more likely that a combination of compromise serotonergic transmission and other defect be responsible for the disorder .
further evidence for this idea be obtain in the ect paradigm ( additive phenotypic effect of double mutant ) , and by observe that swd phenotype of brunol4 homozygote be partially mitigate by up - regulation of serotonergic transmission through block the reuptake of serotonin .
with any of the seizure paradigm , it be plausible that reduce synaptic efficacy , e.g. , due to reduce expression of the other three candidate single out — syn2 , nsf , or snca — be the other contribute variable .
however , we can not ignore other gene misregulated in brunol4 mutant , some with unknown function ( table s1 ) , since many also express selectively within the hippocampus in b6 mouse ( allen brain atlas [ 32 ] ) .
we do not know why brunol4 deficiency result in the decrease expression of these and other transcript rna .
brunol4 have be show to regulate alternative splicing in cell and tissue without endogenous brunol4 [ 33 – 35 ] , but we do not detect aberrant splice variant in mutant brain , at least in the subset of transcript that we analyze ( our unpublished result ) .
since member of the bruno gene family be involve in rna editing , stability , and translation , the possibility exist that brunol4 be involve in other aspect of rna metabolism , for example , in stabilize transcript for translation , a possibility that be support , in part , by the fact that the degree of reduction at the rna level and at the protein level be not 100 % concordant in the mutant hippocampus ( ∼ 20 % – 25 % and ∼ 31 % – 39 % , respectively ) .
however , since many rna processing step be believe to be couple with transcription [ 36 ] , brunol4 may indeed serve multiple role in rna metabolism .
most gene know to cause idiopathic epilepsy encode ion channel .
brunol4 join a grow list of non-ion - channel epilepsy gene in both human and mouse [ 3 – 5 , 7 ] .
it be noteworthy that the human brunol4 gene be in a region on human chromosome 18 show strong evidence for linkage with adolescent - onset idiopathic generalize epilepsy [ 37 ] , suggest that brunol4 may be a candidate gene for these seizure disorder .
material and method
mouse .
origin of brunol4ff mouse .
c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) transgenic mouse be generate at the jackson laboratory ( http://www.jax.org/ ) use a construct where the expression of murine ighmbp2 cdna and enhance green fluorescent protein ( egfp ) be drive by a bidirectional tetracycline - responsive promoter .
briefly , the coding region of the ighmbp2 cdna be clone in the pbi - egfp vector ( clontech , http://www.clontech.com/ ) .
the pvui linearize transgene ( ∼ 8.3 kb ) be microinjected into pronucleus of single cell b6 mouse embryo , which be subsequently implant into pseudopregnant mouse .
b6.129 - htr2ctm1jul mouse , derive from mouse publish in 1995 [ 21 ] , be obtain from the jackson laboratory 's induced mutant resource and be now fully congenic on the b6 background after backcross for ten generation .
all animal be feed standard national institute of health diet contain 6 % fat and acidify water ad libitum .
all animal procedure follow association for assessment and accreditation of laboratory animal care guideline and be approve by institutional animal care and use committee .
ect .
a previously describe [ 38 ] , mouse be restrain , a drop of anesthetic contain 0.5 % tetracaine and 0.9 % nacl be place onto each eye , and a preset current be apply via silver transcorneal electrode use a electroconvulsive stimulator ( ugo basile model 7801 ; http://www.ugobasile.com ) .
the stimulator be set to produce rectangular wave pulse with the follow parameter : 299 hz , 0.2 s duration , 1.6 m width .
sixty ff / + and 57 littermate + / + male mouse ( age 6 – 9 wk ) be test for ect over a range of electric current setting for minimal clonic forebrain seizure and each ect response be record .
the data be analyze in the computer program minitab ( minitab , http://www.minitab.com/ ) and a response curve be generate use the log - probit procedure .
to determine ect in double mutant , male mouse ( age 6 – 9 wk ) be test by increase the stimulus once daily until at least a minimal clonic seizure be observe , and the average threshold determine for each genotype .
electroencephalogram analysis .
mouse be anesthetize with tribromoethanol ( 400mg / kg i.p. )
small burr hole be drill ( 1 mm anterior to the bregma and 2 mm posterior to the bregma ) on both side of the skull 2 mm lateral to the midline .
electroencephalogram ( eeg ) activity be measure by four teflon - coat silver wire solder onto a microconnector .
the wire be place between the dura and the brain and a dental cap be then apply .
the mouse be give a post-operative analgesic of carprofen ( 5 mg / kg subcutaneous ) and be give a 48 - h recovery period before recording be make .
the mouse be record for a 2 - h period on each of the follow two day use the grass eeg model 12 neurodata acquisition system and polyviewpro software program ( grass - telefactor , http://www.grasstechnologies.com/ ) .
for mouse that be treat with ethosuximide ( 200 mg / kg ; sigma - aldrich , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) or fluoxetine ( 20 mg / kg , sigma - aldrich ) , on the day follow their second standard eeg recording , mouse be record for 90 min and then inject intraperitoneally .
they be then record for a minimum of one additional hour .
the control mouse be inject intraperitoneally with saline and record in the same manner .
match pair test be do use the program jmp 6.0.3 ( sa , http://www.sas.com/ ) .
identification of the transgene insertion site .
genomic dna from transgenic mouse and control mouse be digest with bcli , spei , bglii , sphi , and stui and electrophoresed and blot onto a nytron plus membrane ( schleicher & schuell , http://www.whatman.com/ ) .
the blot be probe with an egfp probe and a unique transgene - genomic junction fragment be present in stui - digest dna at about 3 kb .
the stui - digest fragment of ∼ 3 kb be clone into the pbluescript ii - sk vector ( stratagene , http://www.stratagene.com ) .
a vector - specific primer and an egfp primer be use to amplify the junction fragment .
automate sequencing confirm the presence of the egfp cdna as well a other vector sequence .
a 652 - nt fragment do not match with the pbluescript ii - sk vector sequence and be use a a query to blast search the mouse genome .
a single perfect match to intron 1 of the brunol4 gene be find on mouse chromosome 18 .
the other breakpoint of the transgene insertion be clone by a pcr strategy use a transgene - specific primer and a brunol4 intron 1 primer .
base on the sequence information around the insertion breakpoints in the ff allele , a 3 - primer pcr assay be design to detect the ff allele and wild - type allele .
primer for this assay be : s3gtf , 5 ′ - ctcttcatcccttctggcaagtag - 3 ′ ; s3gtr , 5 ′ - gtattcaacaattccgtgtcgccc - 3 ′ ; and s3gtr2 , 5 ′ - ccacacagagaccaagaagattcc - 3 ′ .
at 55 °c annealing temperature , 35 cycle , standard pcr condition , the s3gtf / s3gtr2 primer produce a 672 - bp wild - type allele , and the s3gtf / s3gtr primer produce a 464 - bp mutant allele .
northern blot analysis and quantification .
total rna be prepare from newborn brain , adult brain and dissect brain region use trizol reagent ( invitrogen , http://www.invitrogen.com ) .
two probe be generate for brunol4 , p1 contain 5 ′ utr and exon1 5 ′ to the insertion site and p2 contain the region between brunol4 ′s second and third rna recognition motif .
both probe detect a single transcript on northern blot and p2 be also use for in situ analysis .
hybridization be carry out in formamide - base solution at 42 °c overnight and the blot be wash and expose to an x-ray film at − 80 °c .
the same blot be strip and reprobed with a mouse β - actin probe .
film be image by fuji luminescent image analyzer la - 1000 plus ( http://fujifilmlifescienceusa.com ) and subsequently quantify by fuji image gauge ver. 3.4 .
real - time reverse - transcription pcr .
total rna be prepare from the cerebral cortex of adult b6 - ff / + and and b6 - + / + / littermates with trizol ( invitrogen , http://www.invitrogen.com ) and treat with dnase i ( promega , http://www.promega.com ) under the manufacturer 's suggest condition .
rna ( 2 μg ) be reverse transcribe with amv reverse transcriptase ( promega ) .
the cdna be dilute 20-fold , and 1.5 μl be add to qpcr mastermix plus for sybr green i ( eurogentec , http://www.eurogentec.be ) with pair of the follow primer : beta - actinf ( 5 ′ - cattgctgacaggatgcagaa - 3 ′ ) and beta - actinr ( 5 ′ - gccaccgatccacacagagt - 3 ′ ) , be1u ( 5 ′ - tcgcagtaggtgaggaaagcgcag - 3 ′ ) and be2d ( 5 ′ - tcgcagtaggtgaggaaagcgcag - 3 ′ ) , correspond to brunol4 exon 1 forward and exon 2 reverse , respectively .
the pcr reaction be analyze on an abi prism 7000 sequence detection system ( perkinelmer , http://www.perkinelmer.com/ ) .
the pcr amplification from three pair of age - match mouse be run in triplicate .
amplification of the correct size product be confirm by agarose gel electrophoresis .
rna in situ hybridization .
thin brain section ( 7 μm ) from 10 - wk - old b6 male mouse be hybridize with 33p probe overnight at 50 °c and wash , rnase a treat , dehydrate , and air dry .
slide be dip in liquid emulsion ( kodak , http://www.kodak.com/ ) and image be develop 5 d afterwards .
for dig - base in situ analysis , 15 - μm cryosections be hybridize with dig probe overnight at 65 °c and wash extensively before an overnight incubation of alkaline phosphatase – conjugate anti-dig antibody ( 1 : 2,000 , roche , http://www.roche.com/ ) .
staining signal be develop use bm purple ( roche ) at room temperature for 12 h .
microarray analysis .
total rna be prepare from six male newborn head ( 3 ff / ff and 3 + / + ) .
10 μg of total rna be use to generate 15 μg of crna for hybridization to the affymetrix 430 v2.0 gene chip ( affymetrix , http://www.affymetrix.com/ ) accord to manufacturer 's recommendation .
use the r / maanova package [ 39 ] , an analysis of variance ( anova ) model be apply to the data , and f1 , f2 , f3 , and f test statistic be construct along with their permutation p - value .
change in 459 transcript be consider statistically significant among the 39,000 transcript interrogate .
antibody for western blotting .
the primary antibody and the dilution be : α - htr2a , 1 : 500 ( bd pharmingen , http://www.bdbiosciences.com/ ) ; α - htr2c , 1 : 500 ( immunostar , http://www.immunostar.com/ ) ; α - nsf , 1 : 1,000 ( h - 300 , santa cruz biotechnology , http://www.scbt.com/ ) ; α - synapsin 2 , 1 : 5,000 ( stressgen , http://www.nventacorp.com/ ) ; α - alpha - synuclein , 1 : 250 ( bd transduction , http://www.bdbiosciences.com/ ) ; and α - beta - tubulin , 1 : 1,000 ( sigma ) .
the secondary antibody and the dilution be : hrp α - mouse , 1 : 6,000 ( zymed , http://www.invitrogen.com/ ) and hrp α - rabbit , 1 : 2,000 ( perkinelmer ) .
northern blot probe .
the follow probe be design to detect expression difference among the putative brunol4 target rna between ff / + and + / + brain : ( 1 ) htr2c , 437 - nt probe in exon 6 , the last nucleotide be 43 nt 3 ′ of the taa stop codon .
( 2 ) nsf , 470 - nt probe a describe in [ 27 ] .
( 3 ) syn2 , 234 - nt probe in exon 1 , the first nucleotide be 90 nt 3 ′ of the atg start codon .
this probe be able to detect the two alternatively polyadenylated syn2 transcript .
( 4 ) snca , 416 - nt probe in exon 6 , the first nucleotide be 37 nt 3 ′ of the taa stop codon .
( 5 ) gabrb3 , 412 - nt probe specific to the 3 ′ end of the coding sequence , the last nucleotide be 14 nt 5 ′ of the tga stop codon .
western blot .
hippocampus be dissect from three male ff / + mouse ( before the onset of handling - provoke seizure ) and three + / + littermates .
protein extract be make use ripa buffer with proteinase inhibitor ( roche ) and subsequently quantify use the bradford reagent ( bio - rad , http://www.bio-rad.com/ ) .
protein ( 50 μg ) from each sample be load and probe with the primary antibody and a secondary peroxidase - conjugate antibody and visualize with the ecl plus kit ( amersham , http://www.amersham.com/ ) .
the nitrocellulose membrane be incubate with restore western blot stripping buffer ( pierce , http://www.piercenet.com/ ) at 37 °c for 30 min to remove all the antibody .
the membrane be wash and subsequently reprobed with a different set of antibody .
signal be quantify use the method describe above .
supporting information
table s1
list of gene with differential expression between ff / ff homozygous and wild - type newborn mouse
microarray analysis be carry out a describe in material and method .
down - regulate transcript ( 94 ) be list first , follow by 365 up - regulate transcript .
( 416 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the national center for biotechnology information ( ncbi ) nucleotide database ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/sites/entrez?db=nucleotide ) accession number for intron 1 of the brunol4 gene on mouse chr 18 be ef639873 .
acknowledgement
we thank jason affourtit , sandy daigle , barbara beyer , carolyne dunbar , jonette gilley , neena haider , sonya kamdar , yong woo , and weidong zhang for technical assistance .
we also thank susan ackerman , albert becker , robert burgess , and verity letts for comment and advice .
author contribution .
yy and wnf conceive and design the experiment and write the paper .
yy , clm , nb , and wnf perform the experiment and analyze the data .
tpm and gac contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
funding .
the jackson laboratory 's gene expression and dna sequencing service be subsidize by an nci core grant ca34196 .
this work be support by a grant from the national institute of health ( ns31348 to wnf ) .
yy be support by a tjl postdoctoral fellowship and a research award from citizen united for research in epilepsy ( cure ) .
abbreviation
brunol4 , - bruno - like 4
ect - electroconvulsive threshold
eeg - electoencephalogram
ff , - frequent - flyer
rt - pcr - reverse - transcriptase pcr
swd - spike - wave discharge
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
cebpg transcription factor correlate with antioxidant and dna repair gene in normal bronchial epithelial cell but not in individual with bronchogenic carcinoma
abstract
background
cigarette smoking be the primary cause of bronchogenic carcinoma ( bc ) , yet only 10 – 15 % of heavy smoker develop bc and it be likely that this variation in risk be , in part , genetically determine .
we previously report a set of antioxidant gene for which transcript abundance be low in normal bronchial epithelial cell ( nbec ) of bc individual compare to non-bc individual .
in unpublished study of the same nbec sample , transcript abundance value for several dna repair gene be correlate with these antioxidant gene .
from these data , we hypothesize that antioxidant and dna repair gene be co-regulated by one or more transcription factor and that inter-individual variation in expression and / or function of one or more of these transcription factor be responsible for inter-individual variation in risk for bc .
method
the putative transcription factor recognition site common to six of the antioxidant gene be identify through in silico dna sequence analysis .
the transcript abundance value of these transcription factor ( n = 6 ) and an expand group of antioxidant and dna repair gene ( n = 16 ) be measure simultaneously by quantitative pcr in nbec of 24 non-bc and 25 bc individual .
result
cebpg transcription factor be significantly ( p < 0.01 ) correlate with eight of the antioxidant or dna repair gene in non-bc individual but not in bc individual .
in bc individual the correlation with cebpg be significantly ( p < 0.01 ) low than that of non-bc individual for four of the gene ( xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , and sod1 ) and the difference be nearly significant for gpx1 .
the only other transcription factor correlate with any of these five target gene in non-bc individual be e2f1 .
e2f1 be correlate with gstp1 among non-bc individual , but in contrast to cebpg , there be no significant difference in this correlation in non-bc individual compare to bc individual .
conclusion
we conclude that cebpg be the transcription factor primarily responsible for regulate transcription of key antioxidant and dna repair gene in non-bc individual .
far , we conclude that the heavy smoker select for development of bc be those who have sub-optimal regulation of antioxidant and dna repair gene by cebpg .
background
bc be currently the lead cause of cancer - relate death in the united state , cause 28 % of all cancer death [ 1 ] .
although cigarette smoking be the primary risk factor , only 10 – 15 % of heavy smoker ( great than 20 pack year ) develop bc [ 1 - 3 ] .
antioxidant and dna repair enzyme that provide protection from the effect of cigarette smoke be express in the progenitor cell for bc , normal bronchial epithelial cell ( nbec ) [ 1 ] .
inherit inter-individual variation in the function of these gene play a role in determine risk for bc [ 4 - 6 ] .
antioxidant enzyme protect nbec from reactive oxygen specie produce by interaction with and metabolism of xenobiotics such a pollution and cigarette smoke [ 4 - 7 ] as well a those produce by normal cellular metabolism .
reactive oxygen specie cause many damage reaction include denaturation of protein , cross-linking of lipid and protein and modification of nucleic acid base , which can lead to cancer [ 7 ] .
dna repair enzyme repair the frequent damage to dna cause by oxidant stress as well a other stress , include bulky adduct derive from carcinogen in cigarette smoke [ 8 ] .
we previously report that an interactive transcript abundance index comprise antioxidant gene be low in nbec of bc individual compare to non-bc individual , suggest that bc individual be select on the basis of poor antioxidant protection [ 9 ] .
in that study , there be a tendency towards correlation in transcript abundance between several pair of antioxidant or dna repair gene in non-bc individual , but not in bc individual .
gene pair include in that observation be gstp1 / gpx1 , cat / gpx3 , and gpx3 / sod1 .
correlation be one typical characteristic of co-regulated gene .
another be share transcription factor recognition site in the regulatory region of those gene [ 10 ] .
base on the above finding , it be hypothesize first , that there be inter-individual variation in regulation of key antioxidant and dna repair gene by one or more transcription factor and second , that individual with sub-optimal regulation be select for development of bc if they smoke cigarette .
to test these hypothesis , transcription factor recognition site common to the regulatory region of the above correlate gene pair be identify through in silico dna sequence analysis , and their transcript abundance measure simultaneously with an expand group of ten antioxidant and six dna repair gene .
method
nbec sample procurement
brush biopsy sample of normal bronchial epithelium be obtain for research study at the time of diagnostic bronchoscopy accord to previously describe method [ 9 , 11 ] .
normal bronchial epithelium in the lung not involve with cancer be brush prior to biopsy of the suspect cancerous area .
sample be collect in a manner satisfy all requirement of the institutional review board for the medical university of ohio .
each bc diagnosis and subtype identification be determine by histopathological examination in the department of pathology at the medical university of ohio .
nbec sample from a total of 49 individual , include 24 non-bc individual and 25 bc individual , be evaluate in this study .
the biographical characteristic of these individual be present in table 1 .
transcript abundance measurement
total rna sample extract from nbec be reverse transcribe use m - mlv reverse transcriptase and oligo dt primer a previously describe [ 9 , 11 ] .
standardize rt ( start ) - pcr be use for transcript abundance measurement in these study .
with start - pcr , an internal standard for each gene within a standardize mixture of internal standard ( smis ) be include in each pcr reaction .
after amplification , product be electrophoresed on an agilent 2100 bioanalyzer use dna chip with dna 1000 kit reagent for visualization accord to the manufacturer 's protocol ( agilent technology deutschland gmbh , waldbronn , germany ) .
the start - pcr technology be license to gene express , inc. ( toledo , oh ) .
many of the reagent be available commercially and be obtain through gene express , inc. for this study .
start - pcr reagent for each of the measure gene that be not commercially available , include primer and smis , be prepare accord to previously describe method [ 11 , 12 ] .
sequence information for the primer be provide in table 2 .
include an internal standard within a smis in each measurement control for all known source of variation during pcr , include inhibitor in sample , and generate virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data that be directly comparable across multiple experiment and institution [ 13 ] .
the performance characteristic of start - pcr be superior to other form of commercially available quantitative pcr technology in the area critical to this study .
with respect to these study , the key property of a quantitative pcr method be not whether the pcr product be measure kinetically or at endpoint , but rather whether there be internal standard in each measurement or not .
the overall performance characteristic of start - pcr , include extensive validation of the method in independent laboratory have be present in several recent article and chapter [ 13 - 15 ] .
with respect to the gene measure in this study , for each gene the start - pcr reagent have low detection threshold of less than 10 molecule , linear dynamic range of more than six order of magnitude ( less than 10 to over 107 molecule ) , and signal - to - analyte response of 100 % .
in addition , the presence of an internal standard control for inter-sample variation in presence of pcr inhibitor ( which often be gene - specific ) and ensure no false negative ( if the pcr fail the internal standard pcr product be not observe and there be no data to report ) .
false positive be eliminate through use of a control pcr reaction with no cdna in it .
statistical analysis
more than 6,000 transcript abundance measurement be conduct in multiple experiment over two year to assess the six transcription factor and sixteen antioxidant and dna repair gene in nbec sample from 49 individual ( 24 non-bc individual and 25 bc individual ) .
correlation of each of the six transcription factor with each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene be determine by pearson 's correlation follow logarithmic transformation .
the transformation be necessary due to the wide biological variation in expression of each gene among the individual .
significance level be define a p < 0.01 follow bonferroni adjustment for multiple comparison , specifically comparison of each of six transcription factor to each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene .
comparison for significant difference between pair of correlation coefficient be do by fisher 's z - transformation test [ 16 ] .
analysis of the relationship between virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data for each gene with age be assess by pearson 's correlation , with gender by t - test , and with smoking history by anova follow by duncan 's test .
transcription factor recognition site analysis
the el dorado ( build 35 ) program from the genomatix software package be use to locate the correlate gene within the genome and define 1101 base pair of the promoter region ( 1000 base pair upstream of and 100 base pair into the transcription start site ) for each gene ( genomatix software gmbh , munich , germany , [ 17 ] ) .
the 1101 base pair sequence obtain from the el dorado program then be use a the target sequence for putative transcription factor recognition site identification use the matinspector version 4.2 program , which yield site for 11 transcription factor ( genomatix software gmbh , munich , germany , [ 17 ] ) .
the parameter use be the standard ( 0.75 ) core similarity and the optimize matrix similarity [ 18 ] .
start - pcr reagent be optimize for ten of these transcription factor , include cebpb , cebpe , cebpg , e2f1 , e2f3 , e2f4 , e2f5 , e2f6 , evi1 , and pax5 .
four transcription factor be express at low and invariant level among multiple nbec sample and be therefore exclude from the study .
the remain six , cebpb , cebpg , e2f1 , e2f3 , e2f6 , and evi , be evaluate for correlation with an expand group of ten antioxidant and six dna repair gene .
result
virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data be obtain for each gene in each of the 49 sample , except for e2f1 measurement in sample 147 ( table 3 ) .
a gene - specific inhibitor in sample 147 prevent amplification of e2f1 .
neither the internal standard , nor the native cdna pcr product be observe .
the presence of gene - specific pcr inhibition be observable in some other sample a reduction in peak height in internal standard pcr product relative to that expect for the number of internal standard molecule present at the beginning of the pcr reaction .
however , in each such case , the pcr amplification be efficient enough to enable quantification .
bivariate analysis
in non-bc individual there be significant ( p < 0.01 ) correlation between cebpg and eight of the 16 antioxidant or dna repair gene , specifically xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , sod1 , gpx1 , ercc1 , cat and ercc2 ( table 4 ) .
in contrast , in bc individual sample cebpg be not correlate with any of the antioxidant or dna repair gene .
these relationship be not observe with any of the other transcription factor study .
for xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , and sod1 the correlation with cebpg be significantly low in bc individual compare to non-bc individual and the difference be nearly significant for gpx1 ( fig. 1b ) .
scatter plot of the relationship between cebpg and xrcc1 in non-bc individual or bc individual ( fig. 2a , b ) be representative of the other four gene .
neither cebpg , nor xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , sod1 or gpx1 be significantly correlate with age , gender , or smoking history in non-bc individual , bc individual , or the combined group .
in non-bc individual , base on the r2 value from pearson 's correlation analysis , cebpg account for much of the variance in expression of xrcc1 ( 69 % ) , ercc5 ( 62 % ) , gstp1 ( 55 % ) , sod1 ( 44 % ) , and gpx1 ( 52 % ) .
e2f1 account for some of the remain variance .
for example , when sample from all 49 non-bc individual and bc individual be assess a a single group , e2f1 be significantly correlate with ercc5 , gstp1 and sod1 ( table 4 ) .
far , in non-bc individual , e2f1 be correlate with gstp1 ( fig. 1c ) and the correlation be low in bc individual .
however , the difference in correlation between non-bc individual and bc individual be not significant .
none of the other transcription factor be correlate with xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , sod1 , or gpx1 ( fig. 1a , d , e , f ) .
comparison of gene expression with demographic characteristic
e2f1 and gstz1 each be positively correlate with age .
gstm1 - 5 be the only gene with a difference in expression by gender .
there be a difference in ercc2 expression between former and never smoker .
discussion
in this study , we test two hypothesis .
first , that there be inter-individual variation in regulation of key antioxidant and dna repair gene by one or more transcription factor .
second , that individual with sub-optimal regulation be select for development of bc if they smoke cigarette .
these hypothesis be support by the finding that a ) there be large inter-individual variation in transcript level of cebpg and each of the target gene and in non-bc individual , b ) cebpg transcript abundance value be significantly correlate by bivariate analysis with the transcript abundance value of four key antioxidant and dna repair gene in non-bc individual , and c ) that there be no correlation between cebpg and these gene in bc individual .
these result support the hypothesis that each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene correlate with cebpg in non-bc individual be regulate by cebpg .
this be support by the specificity of the cebpg correlation .
that is , there be lack of correlation between any of the other five transcription factor assess and these target gene .
of particular note be the lack of correlation of the target gene with cebpb , which bind to the same recognition site a cebpg , and share it recognition site within each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene .
however , there be alternative explanation for the observe correlation of cebpg with antioxidant and dna repair gene in non-bc individual .
one possibility be that cebpg and each of the correlate antioxidant or dna repair gene be regulate by a transcription factor that be as yet undiscovered , and / or have a recognition site that be not yet know and be not in the genomatix software database .
there also be more than one possible explanation for the observe lack of correlation between cebpg and antioxidant or dna repair gene in bc individual .
for example , the non-bc individual and bc individual group be not perfectly match with respect to age , gender or smoking history ( table 1 ) and each of these factor could contribute to the observe difference in correlation between group .
however , the lack of association of transcript abundance level for cebpg , xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , sod1 , or gpx1 with age , gender or smoking history argue against such an explanation .
one way to examine this possibility be through additional , large , more closely match study .
another possible explanation be that any difference in nbec from bc individual compare to non-bc individual result from development of bc , instead of be a hereditary cause of increase risk for cancer .
the best way to determine this will be to conduct a prospective study .
in such a study , individual match for smoking history will be monitor for development of bc over time .
the correlation of transcript abundance value for cebpg relative to transcript abundance value for each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene will be assess .
it be expect that the great incidence of bc will be among the heavy smoker .
among the match heavy smoker , it be expect that cebpg will be significantly correlate with each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene among the non-bc individual but not correlate in bc individual .
thus , there be multiple possible explanation for the observe finding .
however , base on the preponderance of data thus far available , we conclude that cebpg be responsible for optimal transcriptional regulation of key antioxidant or dna repair gene in nbec and that there be inter-individual variation in the regulation of each of these gene by cebpg .
if this conclusion be correct , the individual at great risk for bc will be those with the most extreme smoking history combine with sub-optimal regulation of the large number of antioxidant and dna repair gene .
this , in turn , lead to increase representation among bc individual of individual with lack of correlation between cebpg and each of the affect antioxidant and / or dna repair gene .
cebpg be a truncate cebp transcription factor [ 19 ] and possess the sequence necessary for dna binding and heterodimer formation , but lack the sequence necessary for transactivation [ 20 ] .
cebpg form heterodimers with other cebp family member and in other tissue this lead to increase [ 21 ] or decrease [ 20 ] transcription of the regulate gene .
cebpg be know to have stimulatory effect on the il - 6 and il - 8 promoter in b cell line [ 21 ] , and can also act a a dominant negative regulator of cebpa and cebpb in fibroblast and b cell line [ 20 ] .
the data from cebpg knockout mouse support a role for cebpg in protect lung from oxidant damage .
cebpg - / - knockout mouse be healthy at birth but begin to die within 24 hour , and histological examination reveal emphysematous lung [ 22 ] .
in human , risk for emphysema be associate with antioxidant capacity [ 23 ] , and there be a strong correlation between risk for emphysema and risk for bc .
however , it will be important to obtain direct experimental evidence in nbecs for the role of cebpg in regulate the antioxidant and dna repair gene include in this study .
correlation between cebpg and target gene transcript level may not be associate with correlation at the protein level .
in this study , e2f1 correlation with dna repair and antioxidant gene be less than the correlation observe with cebpg , and the e2f1 correlation be observe in both non-bc individual as well a bc individual .
the maintain correlation of e2f1 with dna repair and antioxidant gene in bc individual suggest that this function be more tightly control in the population and do not play a role in determination of risk for bc .
e2f1 have previously be report to regulate transcription of dna repair enzyme gene in other cell type , include primary human fibroblast and mouse epidermal cell [ 24 , 25 ] .
clearly this would have survival value since dna repair gene up - regulation in response to e2f1 provide additional dna repair when the dna be replicate and be particularly vulnerable to damage .
epidemiologic assessment of the correlation between a particular variation in dna sequence , or polymorphism , and risk for bc have be a dominant paradigm for many year .
thus far , these effort have meet with scant success [ 26 ] .
a common limitation in design of such study be that they involve assessment of a single polymorphism or occasionally , a few polymorphism .
far , although the polymorphism assess typically reside within a gene know to protect bronchial epithelium from carcinogen , oxidant , or dna damage , the selection of the particular polymorphism for study be largely empiric , and not base on known functional property .
these be problem because multiple infrequent polymorphism at different site may all contribute to risk and unless the key polymorphism can be identify through a functional test , a statistically valid assessment would require much large study population [ 27 ] .
the finding of this study support a novel approach to identify clinically useful biomarkers .
accord to the paradigm use in this study , a ) a normal phenotype result from regulate transcription of a group of gene by one or more transcription factor , b ) the correspond risk - confer or disease phenotype result from sub-optimal interaction among those same gene , and c ) each phenotype be identifiable and distinguishable through virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance analysis .
the data present here support the utility of this paradigm in identify gene associate with risk for bc .
the next step will be to identify polymorphism that affect regulation of xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , sod1 , and gpx1 by cebpg .
such polymorphism should yield biomarkers suitable for more readily accessible sample , such a peripheral blood or buccal smear .
a biomarker combine polymorphism that affect regulation with those that affect function of antioxidant and dna repair gene be likely to be the most accurate for identify individual at risk for bc .
biomarkers that accurately identify individual at risk for bc will improve efficacy of chemoprevention and early detection clinical trial .
the observe inter-sample variation in the presence of gene - specific inhibitor of pcr provide evidence support the need for inclusion of an internal standard in each quantitative pcr transcript abundance measurement .
include such internal standard in the form of standardized mixture of internal standard improve the reproducibility of transcript abundance measurement and enable development of a standardize database comprise virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data .
virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data be highly suited to identification of gene that have correlate transcript abundance value .
correlation at the transcript abundance level be an important property of gene that be co-regulated at the transcription level .
conclusion
we conclude that in non-bc individual , cebpg regulate transcription of key antioxidant or dna repair gene in nbec and that in smoker who develop bc , cebpg regulation be sub-optimal for a sufficient number of antioxidant and / or dna repair gene to cause increase risk .
compete interest
jcw and elc each have significant equity interest in gene express , inc. , which produce and market start - pcr ™ reagent use in this study .
author ' contribution
dnm participate in the design of the study , perform the tf identification , carry out ta measurement , coordinate and participate in the statistical analysis and draft the manuscript .
elc contribute the preliminary data , participate in the design of the study and carry out ta measurement .
sak perform the statistical analysis for interpretation of data .
dah and yy consent patient and obtain the primary sample necessary for the study accord to irb regulation .
jcw conceive of the study , participate in it design and coordination , and help to draft the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
pre-publication history
the pre-publication history for this paper can be access here :
acknowledgement
these study and manuscript preparation be support by grant from the national cancer institute ( nci ) , include ca85147 and ca 95806 , and the george isaac cancer research fund .
start - pcr reagent for measurement of some of the gene be provide at no cost by gene express , inc.
neither the nci nor gene express , inc. have any role in study design , collection , analysis , or interpretation of data , write of the manuscript , or in the decision to submit the manuscript for publication .
figure and table
figure 1
correlation of each transcription factor with xrcc1 , ercc5 , gstp1 , sod1 , or gpx1 .
( a - f ) each panel present the correlation coefficient ( r value ) for one transcription factor in relation to each of the five gene : ( a ) cebpb , ( b ) cebpg , ( c ) e2f1 , ( d ) e2f3 , ( e ) e2f6 , ( f ) evi1 .
the p value for each significant correlation be provide above the bar .
for cebpg , present in panel b , the difference in r value between non-bc individual and bc individual be significant or nearly significant for each correlate gene , and the p value for each comparison be provide below the corresponding pair of bar .
figure 2
scatter plot representation of bivariate correlation of cebpg with xrcc1 .
( a , b ) cebpg / xrcc1 data from figure 1b present a scatter plot : ( a ) non-bc individual , ( b ) bc individual .
table 1
demographic data of patient from whom the nbec sample be obtain .
1 pack year ; 2 non-bronchogenic carcinoma individual ; 3 white ; 4 african - american ; 5 non-smoker ; 6 not available ; 7 hispanic ; 8 bronchogenic carcinoma individual ; 9 non-small cell lung cancer ; 10 squamous carcinoma ; 11 small cell lung cancer ; 12 carcinoma - in - situ ; 13 adenocarcinoma ; 14 bronchogenic cancer , histology not specify ; 15 poorly differentiate carcinoma .
table 2
sequence for each primer use for start - pcr virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance measurement or for internal standard preparation ( ct ) [ 15 ] .
table 3
virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data .
virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data for each gene ( in the form of molecule / 106 β - actin molecule ) from all experiment be include in the same standardize expression database ( sed ) .
these data be now directly comparable to previously publish virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data from this laboratory [ 15 ] , or to virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data collect by others who use the nci - fund ( r24 ca 95806 ) standardize expression measurement ( sem ) center .
the data present here represent more than 6,000 virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance measurement conduct in multiple experiment .
the sixteen antioxidant or dna repair gene and each of the six transcription factor except for e2f1 be measure in each nbec sample from 49 individual ( 24 non-bc individual and 25 bc individual ) .
1nd , not detectable ( when 60 molecule of competitive template ( ct ) be add to the reaction , ct be detect but native template be not . )
2na , not available .
e2f1 be measure in all of the sample except for one bc individual ( 24 non-bc individual and 24 bc individual ) .
table 4
bivariate analysis of virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data value for each antioxidant or dna repair gene versus each transcription factor .
the correlation of logarithmically transform virtually - multiplexed transcript abundance data ( table 3 ) from each of the six transcription factor with each of the sixteen antioxidant or dna repair gene be determine .
the transformation be necessary due to the wide range of expression of each gene among the sample .
the correlation coefficient ( r value ) and level of significance ( p value ) for each correlation be present .
significance ( p < 0.01 ) be determine use a two - tail test follow bonferroni adjustment for six multiple comparison ( comparison of each of six transcription factor to each of the antioxidant or dna repair gene ) .
* value for e2f1 obtain in all but one bc individual .
an isoform of zbp - 89 predispose the colon to colitis
abstract
alternative splicing enable expression of functionally diverse protein isoforms .
the structural and functional complexity of zinc - finger transcription factor zbp - 89 suggest that it may be among the class of alternatively splice gene .
we identify a human zbp - 89 splice isoform ( zbp - 89δn ) , which lack amino terminal residue 1 – 127 of the full - length protein ( zbp - 89fl ) .
zbp - 89δn mrna be co-expressed with it zbp - 89fl cognate in gastrointestinal cell line and tissue .
similarly , zbp - 89δn protein be express .
to define it function in vivo , we generate zbp - 89δn knock - in mouse by target exon 4 that encode the amino terminus .
homozygous zbp - 89δn mouse , express only zbp - 89δn protein , experience growth delay , reduce viability and increase susceptibility to dextran sodium sulfate colitis .
we conclude that zbp - 89δn antagonize zbp - 89fl function and that over - expression of the truncate isoform disrupt gastrointestinal homeostasis .
introduction
alternative pre-mrna splicing and multiple promoter usage be common mechanism for increase genetic complexity in human ( 1 ) and mouse ( 2 ) .
genome - wide analysis indicate that the majority of human gene express alternative splice isoforms ( 3 ) and some variant contribute to neoplasia or other disease process ( 4 , 5 ) .
for example , truncate isoforms of the p53 gene family , include p63 ( 6 ) and p73 ( 7 – 9 ) , oppose the tumor suppressor activity of their full - length cognate and be over - express in tumor .
zbp - 89 ( znf148 ; zfp148 ; bfcol1 ) , a krüppel - type zinc - finger protein ( 10 ) , be both structurally ( 11 ) and functionally complex ( 12 – 14 ) .
it regulate diverse biological function through direct promoter binding ( 10 , 14 ) and through multiple protein – protein interaction .
it interact directly with the tumor suppressor p53 through it zinc - finger domain ( 13 ) and indirectly with the histone acetyltransferase and transcriptional co-activator p300 through it amino terminus ( 12 ) .
zbp - 89 induce cell growth arrest through a p53 - dependent mechanism ( 13 ) and apoptosis through a p53 - independent mechanism ( 12 ) .
mouse haploinsufficient for zbp - 89 ( zfp148 ) be sterile owe to aberrant spermatogenesis ( 15 ) .
in addition , embryonic stem cell harbor a single zbp - 89 allele fail to exhibit p53 phosphorylation at ser 15 ( 15 ) .
zbp - 89 form a complex with p300 during butyrate induction of p21waf1 in human colorectal cell line ( 12 ) .
the amino terminus of zbp - 89 contain an acidic domain that be require for p300 - mediate induction , since an expression construct lack this domain ( δ amino acid 1 – 113 ) lose it ability to enhance butyrate induction of p21waf1 ( 12 ) .
the acidic domain of zbp - 89 be contain entirely within exon 4 of the human and mouse gene ( 11 ) .
give the heterogeneous zbp - 89 mrna expression pattern ( 10 ) , the functional importance of the p300 interaction domain , and the fact that the zbp - 89 null mouse be likely an embryonic lethal ( 15 ) , we generate a mouse homozygous for the zbp - 89δn isoform .
homozygous δnter mouse experience growth delay , reduce viability and increase susceptibility to dextran sodium sulfate ( ds ) induce colitis , suggest that over - expression of the δnter isoform disrupt normal gastrointestinal homeostasis .
material and method
database deposition
national center for biotechnology information ( ncbi ) reference sequence for zbp - 89 genomic locus be homo sapiens chromosome 3 locus nc_000003 and bac rp11 - 775j23 ( ac108688 ) ; mu musculus chromosome 16 contig nt_039624 and pan troglodyte chromosome 3 genomic locus nw_104931 .
the human zbp - 89δn mrna and exon 4b genomic sequence report here be find in genbank a entry dq090088 and dq090089 , respectively .
the p.troglodytes genomic sequence homologous to human exon 4b be deposit in genbank dq144540 .
organization of the human ( znf148 ) , chimp and mouse ( zfp148 ) zbp - 89 locus
a human genomic clone contig encompass the zbp - 89 locus be previously describe ( 14 ) .
bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) clone be use a template to sequence intron / exon boundary span the znf148 locus .
exon 4b be identify by gene prediction sequence analysis ( 16 , 17 ) .
similarly , a bac and bacteriophage lambda clone contig span the mouse zfp148 locus be assemble and sequence to determine the genomic organization of the zfp148 locus .
primer ptr - 4b - f : 5 ′ - ttcacctccctgtcctgttc - 3 ′ and ptr - 4b - r : 5 ′ - tatctgtcccgtttgcctg - 3 ′ be use to amplify and sequence chimp ( p.troglodytes ) genomic dna contain exon 4b , after blast analysis ( 18 ) have reveal a sequence gap in this region .
chimp genomic dna be obtain from the integrated primate biomaterials and information resource through the coriell institute for medical research ( camden , nj ) .
rt – pcr analysis
total cellular rna be isolate from culture cell use trizol reagent ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca ) .
archive whole cell rna sample from pair colon cancer and normal mucosal sample be also analyze .
two - step rt – pcr be perform use superscript iii rt ( invitrogen ) , however reverse transcription be perform at 55 °c in order to obtain adequate yield of human exon 4b - contain cdna .
rt reaction be prim with random nonamers .
human primer sequence ( 5 ′ to 3 ′ ) be 4a - f : atgaacattgacgacaaactggaag ; 5 - r : ttccatatgatatttttgtatgaat ; 4b - f : tagggatggtcagcactg ; 6 - r : gttcttttgtgcctttcc .
mouse primer sequence ( 5 ′ to 3 ′ ) include ex2 - f : gcggatagaagagaagaatcagtgg ; ex4 - f : cattgacgacaaactggaagg ; ex4 - r : acttcgatcttgaagtactgactc ; ex5 - r : caggagagcgttgtttccg ; ex3 / 5fusion - f : cagcctcagataagtgta and ex9 - r : ttgtggcatctggtgaag .
rt – pcr product be purify and subject to dna sequence analysis ( university of michigan dna sequencing core ) .
5 ′ - race of human exon 4b
the 5 ′ end of the exon 4b variant be identify use the generacer ™ system ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca ) , gene specific primer ( 5 ′ to 3 ′ ) 4b211 - rev : cagtgctgaccatccctatc ctacttg and 2 µg of jurkat whole cell rna .
nest pcr product , generate with adaptor primer include with the generacer ™ system , be clone use the topo - ta system ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca ) , and sequence .
targeting vector
we construct vector pδex - 4 to replace zbp - 89 exon 4 with a pgk - neo cassette by homologous recombination .
high fidelity long - range pcr be use to amplify target arm from mouse bac clone pbmzbp - 89 , use primer ( 5 ′ to 3 ′ ) : ( kpn ) int3 - f , gataggtaccgcattggatggcacaagtgactgagagg with ( xho ) int3 - r , ctcgagcccgggcttaagtataactgcctagaaag for the left arm and ( apa ) int4 - f , ctcgaggggcccgtaagtactaaactagaaatg with ( apa ) int4 - r , ctcgaggggcccaagagccttgctgactcatag for the right arm .
the left targeting arm , encompass exon 3 and intron 3 , be 8 kb in length .
the right targeting arm consist of the proximal 2 kb of intron 4 .
the neomycin cassette , include a transcriptional stop signal , be isolate from ppnt ( 19 ) , generously provide by dr richard mulligan .
generation of target e cell and δnter mouse
electroporation of embryonic stem ( e ) cell with the pδex - 4 targeting vector and microinjection of blastocyst with target e cell be perform by the university of michigan transgenic animal model core ( ) .
genomic pcr be utilize to genotype target 129 sv / j e clone , chimeric founder , and progeny result after germline transmission .
primer sequence ( 5 ′ to 3 ′ ) be int3 - f1 , ggagtattctctgtccgtt atg ; int4 - 326r , gcaagaactacacagagaaaccac and r506neo , tgaggaa gaggagaacagcg .
two - dimensional western blot analysis
whole cell protein extract be prepare from mouse spleen use t - per tissue protein extraction reagent ( pierce , rockford , il ) , supplement with complete mini protease inhibitor ( roche , indianapolis , in ) accord the manufacturer ' recommendation .
whole cell protein extract from human jurkat cell be similarly prepare use m - per mammalian protein extraction reagent ( pierce , rockford , il ) .
isoelectric focusing ( ief ) be perform with 7 cm zoom ® strip ph3 - 10l ( linear ) immobilize ph gradient gel ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca ) , a recommend by the manufacturer .
the focus protein be then separate on nupage ® 4 - 12 % acrylamide gel ( invitrogen ) .
electroblot transfer to pvdf membrane and immunoblot procedure with zbp - 89 antiserum be a previously describe ( 10 , 12 ) .
dextran sodium sulfate colitis
ds colitis be induce in 6 – 9 month old zbp - 89δn and littermate control mouse by the addition of 4 % ds to drinking water for a period of 5 day ( 20 ) .
treat mouse be return to normal drinking water for 2 day prior to necropsy for histopathological scoring .
hematoxylin and eosin ( h & e ) stain colon section be prepare by the swiss roll method ( 21 ) and be score for colitis index by a modification of a previously describe method ( 22 ) .
briefly , crypt damage be score from 0 to 3 a none , basal only , moderate damage and complete erosion , respectively .
inflammation be score from 0 to 3 a none , minor , moderate and severe leukocyte infiltration .
submucosal edema be score from 0 to 3 a none , minor , moderate and severe , respectively .
similarly , hemorrhage be score from 0 to 3 a none , minor , moderate and severe .
each parameter be multiply by an extent factor ( 1 – 3 ) , < 10 % , up to 25 % , 25 to 50 % and > 50 % , respectively .
sample with transmural involvement receive an additional four point .
therefore , the maximum possible colitis index score be 40 .
animal that die during treatment because of colitis injury be also give the maximum score .
individual score the sample be blind to the genotype .
cell culture
the follow cell line be obtain from atcc ( manassas , va ) and maintain on the recommend growth medium : human gastric epithelial cell kato iii and mkn45 ; human colon cancer cell colo 320dm , caco - 2 and hct116 ; and human jurkat leukemia cell .
cell be culture in a humidify atmosphere of 5 % co2 and 95 % air at 37 °c .
all culture medium be supplement with penicillin g ( 100 u / ml ) and streptomycin ( 100 µg / ml ) .
result
identification of human zbp - 89δn isoform
to determine if isoforms of zbp - 89 exist , we screen the human znf148 genomic locus in silico ( 16 , 17 ) .
after localize candidate alternative exon 4b within 4 kb upstream of exon 5 ( figure 1a ) , we use rt – pcr analysis to show that exon 4b be express ( figure 1b ) .
exon 4b mrna ( δn ) be co-expressed with exon 4a - contain message ( fl ) in colon cancer cell ( colodm2 , caco2 , hct116 ) , and in primary tissue from normal colon and colon adenocarcinoma .
both form also be abundantly express in jurkat cell ( data not show ) .
this suggest that at least two form of zbp - 89 exist .
to well understand the function of the isoform , exon 4b - contain cdna be sequence .
in addition to exon 4b , the variant mrna include exon 5 and 6 ( figure 2a ) , as well a exon 7 – 9 ( not show ) .
in contrast , rt – pcr with forward primer from exon 1 - 4a fail to generate product with exon 4b antisense primer , suggest that an independent promoter regulate exon 4b expression .
this be confirm by 5 ′ - rapid amplification of cdna end ( race ) , which show that transcription be initiate immediately upstream of exon 4b .
the cdna sequence show that exon 4b be splice to exon 5 result in an alternative reading frame relative to the cdna encode by exon 4a ( figure 2a ) .
exon 4b be 329 nt in length and compose of untranslated sequence when fuse to exon 5 .
these data predict that alternative promoter usage upstream of exon 4b result in the expression of an amino - terminally truncate zbp - 89 isoform , zbp - 89δn , with an alternative initiation codon correspond to m128 of full - length mrna ( figure 2b ) .
this isoform lack the acidic domain and p300 - interaction region ( 12 ) find in full - length ( zbp - 89fl ) protein ( 10 ) .
identical result be obtain with cdna derive from esophagus , stomach , colon and jurkat t - cell , suggest that the exon 4b alternative promoter mechanism be common .
detection of human zbp - 89δn protein
we find that the electrophoretic mobility of zbp - 89δn protein , despite it short length , overlap with the mobility of it zbp - 89fl cognate ( figure 2c ) .
both form , isolate from jurkat cell , migrate at 100 kda on a 4 – 20 % gradient gel .
similar sd – page anomaly have be report with other protein , include ctcf ( 23 ) and xpa ( 24 ) .
an alternative approach to separate the protein isoforms be suggest by compare their predict ( 25 ) isoelectric point ( pi ) .
loss of the acidic domain in zbp - 89δn protein predict a pi of 7.8 , compare to 6.0 for zbp - 89fl .
this difference could be reveal by two - dimensional ( 2d ) gel electrophoresis , follow by western blot analysis ( figure 2c ) .
zbp - 89 antiserum detect two protein specie , with apparent electrophoretic mobility of 100 kda , but with a pi difference of ∼ 1.5 , confirm that the more basic form be zbp - 89δn .
zbp - 89δn alternative promoter mechanism be restrict to hominid
although the human ( znf148 ) and mouse ( zfp148 ) zbp - 89 locus share many feature of genomic organization ( 11 ) , exon 4b be absent in mouse and most other mammal ( data not show ) .
in contrast , we identify a 133 bp segment of chimpanzee ( p.troglodytes ) chromosome 3 sequence with striking dna sequence homology to human exon 4b , but there be a gap in the exist online genomic sequence .
sequence across the gap after genomic dna amplification , we find that the chimp share 99 % dna sequence identity to the 329 bp human exon 4b .
this suggest that the zbp - 89δn alternative promoter mechanism be restrict to hominid .
generate a mouse model of zbp - 89δn expression
since mouse lack exon 4b , and therefore do not express a zbp - 89δn isoform , we target the mouse exon 4 domain by homologous recombination ( figure 3a ) .
the left targeting arm contain exon 3 and intron 3 , and the right targeting arm contain 1.8 kb of the 5 ′ margin of intron 4 .
homologous recombination occur in 4 of 1200 e clone identify by pcr ( figure 3b ) .
of the four homologous recombinant , three demonstrate stable karyotype and be therefore inject into blastocyst .
germline transmission of the exon 4 - target locus result in two founder line , 4e10 and 8c6 , while a third founder , 9c6 , fail to transmit the recombinant locus .
germline transmission be obtain first in the 4e10 lineage .
near - mendelian ratio be observe at the age of weaning ( 3 week ) in offspring of heterozygous intercrosses ( figure 3c ) .
the data suggest that ∼ 20 % of δexon4 homozygous embryo die in utero or perinatally , however the difference between predict and observe δexon4 / δexon4 yield be not statistically significant ( χ2 - square analysis ; p > 0.05 ) .
a similar pattern be observe in the 8c6 lineage .
these result also suggest that the mutant locus be at least partially functional , since heterozygosity for a null zbp - 89 ( zfp148 ) allele result in fail germ cell development and therefore be not transmit ( 15 ) .
alternative splicing of exon 3 to exon 5 in recombinant mouse
to determine the effect of exon 4 deletion on zbp - 89 expression , we analyze cdna derive from normal , heterozygous and exon 4 - target animal ( figure 4a ) .
whereas exon 4 sequence be absent from recombinant mrna , both upstream and downstream exon be express .
rt – pcr with primer span exon 4 generate a 690 bp cdna from wild type and a 339 bp cdna from mutant allele .
the size difference between wt and target cdna be 351 bp , the size of exon 4 .
this suggest that exon 3 be splice directly to exon 5 , exclude the intervene neo cassette , and this be confirm by dna sequencing ( figure 4b ) .
deletion of exon 4 remove the initiation codon find in fl message and also result in an alternative reading frame .
gene feature sequence analysis ( 16 , 17 ) predict that the alternative initiation codon correspond to m128 of the fl protein ( figure 4b ) , analogous to the human zbp - 89δn variant ( figure 2b ) .
mouse zbp - 89δn protein expression
2d western blot analysis ( figure 4c ) show that zbp - 89fl and zbp - 89δn protein be express in an allele - dependent manner .
the two form have similar electrophoretic mobility of 100 kda , but be readily separate by their pi difference , similar to the human isoforms ( figure 2c ) .
a mention above , similar electrophoretic anomaly have be observe with other protein isoforms ( 23 , 24 ) .
the immunoblot data also suggest that the δn protein isoform may be present at high level than the fl form in spleen tissue , however mrna level appear comparable , suggest a possible difference in protein stability .
collectively , the mrna and protein expression data confirm that we knock the zbp - 89δn variant into the mouse genome .
thus , the mouse model offer the advantage of assess the biological effect of zbp - 89δn expression exclusively .
zbp - 89δn / δn mouse experience growth delay and reduce viability
at weaning , by age 3 week , male zbp - 89δn / δn mouse weigh an average of 5.9 ± 0.5 g ( figure 5a ) , 34 % small than zbp - 89fl / fl ( 12.1 ± 0.7 g ) and 49 % small than zbp - 89fl / δn heterozygous littermates ( 15.1 ± 0.8 g ) .
from age 4 – 8 week , the size differential between zbp - 89δn / δn and control mouse be diminish .
a similar effect be observe with female mouse ( data not show ) .
a show above ( figure 3c ) , zbp - 89δn / δn mouse experience 20 % perinatal mortality a determine by genotype ratio at weaning .
reduce viability persist and become statistically significant ( figure 5b ) , with 50 % mortality at 48 week and 69 % mortality by 104 week .
the 2 year survival ratio be 20 : 20 zbp - 89fl / fl , 39 : 40 zbp - 89fl / δn and 5 : 16 zbp - 89δn / δn mouse .
histopathological organ and tissue survey reveal no obvious abnormality in zbp - 89δn / δn mouse , with the possible exception of the colon , where we note a trend toward slightly increase lymphocytic infiltrates ( data not show ) .
semi-quantitative rt – pcr analysis of colon mrna level ( figure 5c ) , suggest that fl and δn form be express in an allele - dependent manner .
collectively , these data demonstrate that balance expression of zbp - 89fl and zbp - 89δn isoforms , a observe in heterozygous mouse , support normal growth and viability .
in contrast , exclusive expression of the zbp - 89δn isoform in transgenic mouse result in growth delay and reduce viability .
zbp - 89δn confer ds colitis susceptibility
we previously show that the amino terminal region of zbp - 89 ( amino acid 1 – 111 ) be require to potentiate butyrate induction of p21waf1 , suggest that the amino terminal region mediate the butyrate - dependent anti-proliferative activity of zbp - 89 in the mammalian gastrointestinal tract ( 12 ) .
butyrate suppress colonic inflammation when induce by ds ( 26 ) .
since ds accentuate a tendency to develop colitis , we challenge zbp - 89δn / δn mouse acutely with 4 % ds for 5 day , a previously describe ( 20 ) .
histopathogical analysis ( hematoxylin and eosin stain section ) demonstrate the presence of severe colitis that correlate with a zbp - 89δn gene dosage effect ( figure 6a – c ) .
zbp - 89fl / fl mouse ( figure 6a ) have localize area of lymphocytic infiltration and minimal submucosal edema .
zbp - 89fl / δn mouse ( figure 6b ) exhibit more extensive infiltration , with displace normal crypt architecture in addition to submucosal edema .
zbp - 89δn / δn mouse ( figure 6c ) have area with complete erosion of crypt architecture , grossly visible hemorrhage and extensive submucosal edema .
the zbp - 89δn gene dosage effect also correlate with the duration of gastrointestinal bleeding ( figure 6d ) .
moreover , only zbp - 89δn / δn mouse die during ds treatment , with 50 % mortality by the conclusion of the 7 day regimen ( figure 6e ) .
composite colitis score similarly parallel the zbp - 89δn gene dosage ( figure 6f ) .
these data suggest that increase expression of zbp - 89δn be associate with increase susceptibility to colitis .
discussion
through structural and functional analysis , we identify a human - specific zbp - 89 splice isoform , zbp - 89δn , which be generate by alternative promoter usage upstream of an alternative exon 4b .
a a consequence , zbp - 89δn protein lack a transcriptional domain ( 12 ) find in it full - length zbp - 89 cognate .
this be the first characterization of a zbp - 89 isoform and be consistent with previous observation that gene complexity be low in mouse than in human .
as many a 59 % of human gene be alternatively splice ( 27 ) , while the high estimate to date for the mouse be 33 % ( 28 ) .
comparative genomic analysis suggest that the zbp - 89δn splicing mechanism have be conserve between human and chimp , indicate that this specific mechanism of regulate zbp - 89 function be restrict to hominid .
alternative mrna expression increase genetic diversity through regulatory mechanism that also be implicate in cancer ( 1 , 3 – 5 , 29 ) and other disease process ( 30 , 31 ) .
the human zbp - 89δn variant describe here render the colonic mucosa more susceptible to injury .
our previous study show that the n - terminal domain be require for zbp - 89 to mediate butyrate - dependent activation of p21waf1 by cooperate with p300 ( 12 ) .
this result demonstrate that the n terminal domain be functionally important in vitro .
generate a mouse model in which only the truncate form be express reveal that loss of the p300 - interact domain result in delay growth and a shorten lifespan .
although the overall effect on the health of the organism be impressive , an initial survey of several organ do not reveal obvious abnormality , with the exception of the colon , which appear to exhibit slightly more inflammatory infiltrates than the wild type mouse .
the propensity of the zbp - 89δn express mouse to develop colitis be subsequently uncover when the animal be challenge with ds .
therefore , we conclude from these study that expression of zbp - 89fl tend to protect against colitis .
the gene dosage dependence of colitis susceptibility far suggest that the zbp - 89δn isoform function a a dominant negative antagonist of zbp - 89fl .
similar antagonistic interaction have be report between fl and δn isoforms within the p53 gene family , include δnp63 ( 29 ) and δnp73 ( 7 – 9 ) .
the zbp - 89δn knock - in model report here , along with an early zfp148 + / − model ( 15 ) , help to elaborate how individual protein domain mediate the in vivo function of zbp - 89 .
mouse heterozygous for a null zbp - 89 allele demonstrate complete failure of male germ cell development and be defective in p53 - dependent embryogenesis ( 15 ) .
this finding suggest that the ability of zbp - 89 to interact with p53 be exquisitely sensitive to gene dosage .
in contrast , homozygous zbp - 89δn expression be compatible with embryonic and postnatal survival , albeit at reduce level .
we previously show that the dna - bind , zinc - finger region of zbp - 89 mediate it interaction with p53 ( 13 ) , and this domain be retain in the zbp - 89δn isoform .
therefore , the nter domain , which include the p300 interaction domain , be dispensable for p53 - dependent embryonic development and postnatal survival , but be essential for normal gastrointestinal function .
acknowledgement
the author gratefully acknowledge the expertise of the university of michigan transgenic animal model core , especially thom saunders , linda samuelson and elizabeth hughes .
the author also thank member of the dna sequencing core and the unit for laboratory animal medicine at the university of michigan , and kathy mcclinchey for assistance with histology .
proteomics data be provide by the michigan proteome consortium ( ) which be support in part by fund from the michigan life science corridor .
specifically , valuable assistance with 2d gel electrophoresis be provide by jennifer callahan .
this research be support in part by the national institute of health through the university of michigan 's cancer center support grant ( 5 p30 ca46592 ) and the university of michigan gastrointestinal peptide research center ( dk - 34533 ) .
art tessier and gail kelsey provide administrative support .
stacey ehrenberg provide technical assistance .
this work be support by grant from the national institute of health to d.j.l. ( r21 dk65004 - 01 ) and j.l.m. ( ro1 - dk55732 ) .
funding to pay the open access publication charge for this article be provide by nih grant ro1 - dk55732 ( j.l.m. ) .
conflict of interest statement .
none declare .
figure and table
figure 1
identification of a novel exon within the human zbp - 89 ( znf148 ) locus .
( a ) the human zbp - 89 ( znf148 ) locus span 142 kb ( upper panel ) and encompass three untranslated ( 1 – 3 ) and six coding ( 4 – 9 ) exon .
a potential alternative exon 4b ( shade box ) be identify at a position 4.2 kb upstream of exon 5 .
arrow indicate the location of forward ( f ) and reverse ( r ) rt – pcr primer use for expression analysis of fl zbp - 89 and the exon 4b variant .
select intron size ( kb ) be indicate .
( b ) rt – pcr analysis of full - length ( fl ) and variant ( δn ) zbp - 89 mrna expression , use actin ( ac ) a control .
the cdna be generate with culture cell line use primer 4a - f / 5 - r ( 726 bp product ) ; primer 4b - f / 6 - r ( 432 bp product ) and ( ac ) , actin control primer ( 400 bp product ) .
whole cell rna be isolate from colodm2 , caco 2 , and hct116 human colon cell line as well a pair normal colon and colon adenocarcinoma tissue .
full - length message be express from promoter 1 ( pro 1 ) and variant ( δn ) zbp - 89 mrna be express from promoter 2 ( pro 2 ) , a describe in figure 2 .
figure 2
variant zbp - 89 transcript encode a truncate protein , zbp - 89δn .
( a ) the 5 ′ end of exon 4b - variant cdna , determine by 5 ′ - race , be show .
underlined italic , exon 4b - encode ; low case italic , exon 5 untranslated ( frameshift relative to zbp - 89fl cdna ) ; upper case italic , exon 5 coding sequence commence at m128 relative to fl protein ; upper case underline , beginning of exon 6 - encode .
the remainder of the cdna and amino acid sequence be identical to the correspond segment of fl cdna and protein .
( b ) comparison of fl ( upper ) and δn ( low ) protein isoforms .
the amino terminus of zbp - 89fl include an acidic and p300 - interaction domain ( pid ) , which be absent in zbp - 89δn .
the zbp - 89δn isoform retain the dna binding and c - terminal domain .
( c ) 2d western blot analysis of jurkat whole cell protein extract .
zbp - 89fl ( solid triangle ) and zbp - 89δn ( open triangle ) peptide share an electrohoretic mobility of ∼ 100 kda and be separate on the basis of their distinct isoelectric point ( pi ) .
the acidic end of the focusing gel be at the left .
figure 3
target zbp - 89 exon 4 in mouse .
( a ) replacement of exon 4 with a neomycin resistance cassette ( neo ) by homologous recombination in e cell .
top panel : bracket show location of feature encode by exon 4 , include initiation codon , acidic domain ( black rectangle ) and p300 interaction domain .
open box , basic domain ; hatch box , zinc - finger ; stipple region , untranslated .
middle panel ; zfp148 genomic locus .
intron size ( kb ) be show .
low panel ; targeting strategy .
( b ) tail biopsy dna genotyping .
wt ( int 3 f / int 4 r ) and δexon4 ( int 3 f / neo r ) amplimers .
( c ) near - mendelian inheritance of δexon - 4 allele .
the difference between predict and observe value be not significant .
figure 4
δexon4 locus encode mouse zbp - 89δn .
( a ) rt – pcr analysis be use to determine the variant mrna structure in recombinant mouse .
spleen whole - cell rna be reverse - transcribe and amplify with primer within the indicated exon .
rt – pcr of another ubiquitously express zinc - finger transcription factor , sp1 , be use for comparison and show that the rna sample be of uniform quality .
control experiment show that pcr product be rt - dependent ( data not show ) , indicate that they be indeed derive from mrna rather than possibly result from amplification of zbp - 89 relate process pseudogene sequence , such a ψberf1 ( 32 ) .
( b ) dna sequencing of recombinant cdna show that deletion of exon 4 result in direct splicing of exon 3 to exon 5 , exclude the neo cassette .
the result reading frameshift predict an alternative initiation codon correspond to m128 of fl protein , similar to the naturally occur human zbp - 89δn variant .
( c ) 2d immunoblot analysis of whole - cell spleen protein extract from fl / fl , fl / δn and δn / δn mouse , use condition identical to those use for analysis of human sample ( figure 2c ) .
figure 5
growth delay and decrease survival in δnter mouse .
( a ) growth curve for male zbp - 89fl / fl ( gray dash line , n = 20 ) , zbp - 89fl / δn ( black dot line , n = 36 ) , and zbp - 89δn / δn ( black solid line , n = 16 ) offspring .
a similar pattern be see with female mouse ( not show ) .
** p < 0.01 ; * p < 0.05 .
a trend toward low body weight in zbp - 89δn / δn persist after 12 week , but be no longer statistically significant ( data not show ) .
( b ) kaplan – meier analysis of survival interval to the onset of morbidity or death .
( c ) semi-quantitative rt – pcr analysis of zbp - 89fl and zbp - 89δn mrna level in the colon .
figure 6
increase susceptibility to ds colitis in zbp - 89δn mouse .
( a – c ) representative h & e stain of normal ( a ) , heterozygous ( b ) and zbp - 89δn / δn ( c ) mouse .
inf = infiltrate lymphocyte ; se = submucosal edema ; tm = transmural inflammation .
( d ) δnter expression accelerate onset of gastrointestinal bleeding , measure by fecal occult blood screening .
( e ) mortality during ds treatment : 50 % of zbp - 89δn / zbp - 89δn mouse die during 4 % ds treatment ; all zbp - 89fl / zbp - 89fl and zbp - 89fl / zbp - 89δn mouse survive ( six in each group ) .
( f ) colitis index scoring of ds - treat mouse , a describe in material and method ; six mouse in each genotype cohort .
a role for alström syndrome protein , alms1 , in kidney ciliogenesis and cellular quiescence
abstract
premature truncation allele in the alms1 gene be a frequent cause of human alström syndrome .
alström syndrome be a rare disorder characterize by early obesity and sensory impairment , symptom share with other genetic disease affect protein of the primary cilium .
alms1 localize to centrosome and ciliary basal body , but truncation mutation in alms1 / alms1 do not preclude formation of cilium .
here , we show that in vitro knockdown of alms1 in mouse cause stunt cilium on kidney epithelial cell and prevent these cell from increase calcium influx in response to mechanical stimulus .
the stunt - cilium phenotype can be rescue with a 5 ′ fragment of the alms1 cdna , which resemble disease - associate allele .
in a mouse model of alström syndrome , alms1 protein can be stably express from the mutant allele and be require for cilium formation in primary cell .
age mouse develop specific loss of cilium from the kidney proximal tubule , which be associate with focus of apoptosis or proliferation .
a renal failure be a common cause of mortality in alström syndrome patient , we conclude that this disease should be consider a a further example of the class of renal ciliopathies : wild - type or mutant allele of the alström syndrome gene can support normal kidney ciliogenesis in vitro and in vivo , but mutant allele be associate with age - dependent loss of kidney primary cilium .
author summary
alström syndrome be a rare genetic disorder cause by mutation in the alms1 gene .
the disease be characterize by blindness , deafness , and metabolic disorder .
these symptom be reminiscent of disease affect the primary cilium , a cellular appendage with a role in sense change to the extracellular environment .
in addition , kidney failure be a frequent cause of death in alström syndrome patient , and recent study have suggest a causal relationship between defect in primary cilium and cystic kidney disease .
in this paper , we show that alms1 protein be require to form cilium in kidney cell .
mutant allele of the gene that be similar to those see in the human disease be able to support cilium formation in cell culture and in animal .
however , a defect in the function of the disease allele be uncover in old mouse : cilium be lose from the kidney cell , and this be associate with an increase in cellular proliferation and cell death .
the data be consistent with a requirement for alms1 in ciliogenesis and suggest inclusion of alström syndrome among the grow class of cilium - relate pathology .
introduction
alström syndrome be a rare autosomal recessive disorder characterize by early onset obesity , type 2 diabetes mellitus , retinal degeneration , and hearing impairment .
other aspect of the disease include cardiomyopathy , liver dysfunction , kidney dysfunction , and a delay in puberty .
renal function decline with age , and end - stage renal disease be a common cause of death in alström syndrome patient [ 1 ] .
additionally , enlarged kidney have be report in a previously report mouse strain with a mutation in alms1 [ 2 ] .
the primary cilium be an antenna - like organelle , surround by a membrane contiguous with the plasma membrane [ 3 , 4 ] .
typically , cilium extend several micrometer from the apical face of the cell , ground to the cellular microtubule complex through the basal body .
cilium be conserve through several eukaryotic phylum , include caenorhabditis elegans , chlamydomonas , and vertebrate .
immotile primary cilium contain a scaffold of nine microtubule doublet run the length of the axoneme ( 9 + 0 ) , whereas motile cilium contain an additional central microtubule pair ( 9 + 2 arrangement ) .
increase data demonstrate role for the primary cilium in sensory function .
these include mechanosensation of lumenal flow in kidney tubule and transduction of extracellular signaling through the hedgehog , wnt , and platelet - derive growth factor receptor pathway [ 3 , 4 ] .
four line of evidence suggest the hypothesis that renal failure in alström patient be secondary to a defect in primary cilium in the kidney .
first , mutation in gene that be implicate in the function of primary cilium be associate with kidney disease .
polycystic kidney disease ( pkd ) be characterize by progressive development of fluid - fill cyst , ultimately lead to end - stage renal failure [ 5 ] .
both autosomal dominant pkd ( adpdk ) protein ( polycystin - 1 and − 2 ) be localize to primary cilium and be necessary for cilium - mediate signaling in response to a fluid - flow stimulus [ 6 ] .
autosomal recessive pkd ( arpkd ) protein ( fibrocystin ) and nephronophthisis disease protein , nephrocystin and inversin , be involve in ciliary protein transport [ 7 , 8 ] .
additionally , mouse strain with genetic lesion in ciliary protein lead to cystic kidney disease [ 9 , 10 ] .
second , the spectrum of phenotype see in alström patient be similar to bardet - biedl patient [ 11 ] , suggest that mutation in alms1 might cause disease through a similar mechanism to bb mutation .
it be now well document that several of the 11 gene mutate in bardet - biedl syndrome ( bb ) have role in the function of primary cilium [ 12 – 19 ] .
third , alms1 be localize to centrosome and ciliary basal body in vitro [ 20 , 21 ] , consistent with a role in the structure of the basal body or in the transport of protein between the cytoplasm and the ciliary axoneme .
fourth , in vivo phenotype of alms1 mutant mouse include a lack of sperm flagellum , a modify ciliary structure , as well a defective rhodopsin transport through the connect cilium of photoreceptor cell [ 2 , 22 ] .
these data point to a role of alms1 in the function of primary cilium , but no defect in cilium formation be observe in human dermal fibroblast from an alström syndrome patient [ 21 ] or in the kidney collect duct epithelial cell of a gene - trap alms1 mutant mouse strain [ 2 ] .
a possible resolution of this discrepancy come from the genetic analysis of mutation in alms1 that have be find in patient .
in all case , there be at least one allele of alms1 that could encode an n - terminal fragment of the alms1 protein before the presence of a premature stop codon .
moreover , the allele in two report mouse model of alström syndrome would also be predict to encode the n - terminus of alms1 [ 2 , 22 ] .
thus , it be possible that alms1 be require for cilium formation , and that the disease - associate allele be able to provide at least part of this activity through expression of the n - terminus of the protein .
in this study , we test whether alms1 have a role in cilium formation or function and provide evidence that renal failure in alström syndrome patient might be associate with ciliary dysfunction .
result
depletion of alms1 mrna and protein by short interfere rna cause defective ciliogenesis in kidney cell
to determine whether alms1 be necessary for cilium formation and / or function , we use an in vitro model of kidney cell ciliogenesis and signaling .
mouse inner medullary collect duct ( mimcd3 ) cell form cilium 5 d after confluency [ 23 ] .
the cilium can be visualize a long protrusion from the cell surface use an antibody raise against acetylate tubulin ( figure 1a ) .
we test several short interfere rna ( sirna ) molecule design against the mouse alms1 sequence for their effect on formation of cilium in this model .
cilium be form normally in the presence of a negative control sirna .
however , transfection with two sirna sequence against alms1 , alms1a and alms1b , lead to a markedly different phenotype .
the acetylate tubulin staining on each cell manifest a a single ball of fluorescence , and very few cell show the elongated staining typical of ciliary axoneme ( figure 1a ) .
both of these sirna specie also cause a decrease in the alms1 mrna level ( figure 1b ) .
in contrast , two additional sirnas ( alms1c and alms1d ) do not affect the pattern of acetylate tubulin staining in the ciliogenesis assay , nor do they affect the alms1 mrna level ( figure 1a and 1b ) .
to demonstrate that the active sirna specie also decrease level of alms1 protein , we raise an antiserum in rabbit against the predict n - terminal 13 amino acid of the open reading frame of alms1 .
use this antiserum , we detect positive staining at the base of cilium , consistent with previous report on the subcellular localization of alms1 [ 21 ] .
the antibody signal be reduce below detection in the presence of the active sirna molecule ( figure 1c ) .
loss of alms1 do not affect transcriptional regulation of ciliary gene but do disrupt ciliary mechanosensation
transcriptional profiling in chlamydomonas and in c. elegans have identify a set of gene that be regulate during ciliogenesis [ 24 , 25 ] .
a an initial characterization of the role of alms1 in the mimcd3 in vitro model , we ask whether alms1 protein be require for the transcriptional response associate with ciliogenesis .
a time course of mimcd3 ciliogenesis show a steady rise in the level of alms1 mrna after confluency .
this be parallel by an increase in cilium length ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
we choose two other cilium - relate gene that have increase mrna level during ciliogenesis , bbs4 and ttc10 .
bbs4 ( bb gene 4 ) encode a protein localize to the basal body and centrosome that be require for target cargo to the pericentriolar region [ 13 ] ; ttc10 ( ift88 / polaris ) be require for transport of cargo from basal body to the distal cilium [ 26 ] .
bbs4 and ttc10 mrna be upregulated even when ciliogenesis be disrupt with alms1a sirna ( figure 2b ) .
moreover , microarray analysis show that knockdown of alms1 by sirna have no effect on the general transcription program associate with confluency and ciliogenesis in the mimcd3 cell ( figure 2c and table s1 ) .
we then use this model to ask whether the stunt cilium form in limit amount of alms1 be functionally competent .
cilium on kidney epithelial cell be able to induce an intracellular calcium signal in response to fluid flow over the cell surface .
defect in this response be think to underlie pkd [ 27 , 28 ] .
full - length cilium form in the presence of a control sirna be able to respond to flow a expect ( figure 2d ) .
however , the stunt cilium form in the presence of the alms1a sirna be unable to induce calcium flux after a flow stimulus .
take together , these in vitro result suggest a critical role of alms1 in cilium biogenesis of kidney epithelial cell , though without disruption of the transcriptional program that accompany this process .
the abnormal cilium form after knockdown of alms1 be characterize by a focal concentration of acetylate tubulin at the cell membrane , and these stunt cilium be unable to respond to fluid flow by calcium flux .
a 5 ′ fragment of alms1 be sufficient to rescue cilium formation in vitro after knockdown of endogenous alms1 and can support normal ciliogenesis in vivo
report allele of alms1 in human patient , as well a in two report mouse model of the disease , usually encode premature termination codon in exon 8 , 10 , and 16 [ 2 , 22 , 29 , 30 ] .
in these allele , the 5 ′ terminus of the gene encode an intact open reading frame that might give rise to a partially functional protein .
therefore , we test whether a truncate 5 ′ cdna be able to rescue cilium formation after alms1 knockdown .
we transfected a mouse alms1 cdna encode the n - terminal 1,282 amino acid , equivalent to exon 1 – 8 , into mimcd3 cell in the presence of the alms1a sirna .
the alms1a sirna sequence match the alms1 gene 3 ′ of the cdna fragment and so be predict to affect only the level of the endogenous transcript and not expression of the cdna encode the n - terminus of alms1 .
a expect , transfection with alms1a sirna cause focal acetylate tubulin staining .
however , cotransfection of the alms1 cdna with alms1a sirna be fully capable of rescue the cilium phenotype ( figure 3a ) .
to monitor the effect of cdna transfection on knockdown of the endogenous mrna level , we use a taqman assay recognize the boundary of exon 12 and 13 of the alms1 mrna .
this assay will detect the endogenous full - length transcript but not the transfected cdna and show that cotransfection of the cdna do not affect knockdown of the endogenous transcript .
conversely , use a taqman assay recognize the 5 ′ of alms1 mrna that detect both the endogenous and cdna - encode transcript , we show that cotransfection with the sirna alms1a do not affect over - expression of the alms1 5 ′ cdna ( figure 3b ) .
to determine whether a premature truncation allele of the alms1 gene can support normal ciliogenesis at endogenous expression level , we use primary cell from a mouse strain with an ethyl nitroso urea – induce , premature truncation mutation in exon 10 of the alms1 gene ( figure s1 ) .
the alms1 gene in this mutant strain be predict to encode the n - terminal 2,131 amino acid of the mouse alms1 protein , and we therefore name the allele alms1l2131x / l2131x .
similar expression of alms1 mrna be observe across eight tissue in wild - type and homozygous alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse ( figure 3c ) .
in particular , level of alms1 mrna in the kidney of mutant alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse be at least as high a in the wild - type control mouse .
in addition , we detect mutant alms1 protein localize at the base of cilium of alms1l2131x / l2131x primary kidney cell ( figure 3d ) .
thus , despite the presence of a premature stop codon allele in the alms1 gene of these mouse , both mrna and protein be readily detectable .
by isolate primary fibroblast and kidney cell from alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse and wild - type control , we find that cell from the alms1l2131x / l2131x strain show normal primary cilium when compare to wild - type cell ( figure 3e ) , which be consistent with previous report [ 2 , 21 ] .
we then test whether expression of the mutant alms1 transcript be require for normal cilium formation in cell derive from the alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse strain .
knockdown of mutant alms1 mrna use a 5 ′ specific sirna in the alms1l2131x / l2131x embryonic fibroblast inhibit ciliogenesis in these cell ( figure 3f ) , a be see for wild - type cell ( unpublished data ) .
age - dependent loss of primary cilium and homeostasis in alms1 mutant mouse
we characterize the phenotype of alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse strain with reference to the metabolic and sensory defect report in alström syndrome patient to determine whether the pathology of the mouse strain resemble that of human patient .
homozygous mutant mouse increase in weight faster than wild - type control between 7 and 10 wk of age , and body composition analysis show that this increase be almost entirely explain by an increase in fat mass ( figure 4a ) .
histological analysis show hypertrophy of white and brown fat adipocytes and steatosis of the liver in obese mutant mouse ( figure 4b ) .
although one old male mutant mouse in this cohort of 20 become diabetic , most mouse have normal glucose level with hyperinsulinemia .
other serum abnormality include elevated leptin , triglyceride , total cholesterol , and hdl cholesterol ( figure s2 ) .
finally , we note that the alms1l2131x / l2131x strain have defective sperm formation in the testis and defective rhodopsin transport in the retina ( figure 4c and 4d ) .
we conclude from these data that the alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse strain be a close genetic model of human alström syndrome [ 1 ] , and we proceed to analyze whether there be any defect in the kidney cilium that might relate to renal failure in human patient .
the kidney of 6 - mo - old alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse contain multiple dilate tubule in the cortex ( figure 5a ) .
consistent with a previous report [ 2 ] , primary cilium appear normal in collecting duct of the renal medulla .
however , we notice that some cortex tubule appear to be almost completely denude of cilium in aged alms1l2131x / l2131x mutant ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
to far characterize these tubule , we stain the kidney section with lotus tetragonolobus agglutinin ( lta ) a a proximal tubular marker , and with aquaporin - 2 antibody a a marker of collecting duct ( figure 5c ) .
in both the wild - type and alms1l2131x / l2131x mutant animal , the aquaporin - 2 - label collecting duct cell have clear primary cilium a expect .
lta - label proximal tubule cell in the wild - type animal be also ciliated .
in contrast , most of the lta - label proximal tubule of alms1l2131x / l2131x mutant be not ciliated .
human pkd be think to originate from renal tubule dilatation , secondary to abnormality in cellular proliferation and apoptosis .
we examine kidney section from wild - type and mutant mouse with a marker for proliferation , ki67 , and by tunel staining for apoptotic cell ( figure 5d ) .
sparse proliferation be see in wild - type kidney section .
high level of proliferation be detect in the cortex of kidney from alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse , and this be focus in patch , perhaps represent convolution of the same tubule come into the plane of section .
in most of the cross section of dilate tubule , several ( 20 % – 50 % ) of the epithelial cell be ki67 - positive , and these cell lack cilium .
we also note a dramatic increase in kidney epithelial cell apoptosis in the mutant mouse .
a with ki67 , it be striking that tunel - positive cell have a nonuniform distribution and seem to be cluster within particular tubule , whereas other tubule appear identical to wild - type control .
these change appear to compromise kidney function , a urinanalysis reveal a mild proteinurea in adult alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse ( figure 5e ) .
none of the kidney phenotype describe above ( dilate tubule , loss of cilium , proliferation and apoptosis of epithelial cell , or proteinurea ) be see in 2 - mo - old mouse ( figure s3 and unpublished data ) .
discussion
alms1 be among the large disease gene identify today in the human genome .
however , amino acid sequence analysis identify only a leucine zipper near the n - terminus , allow limited inference to be make about the function of this protein .
localization of alms1 to the centrosome and ciliary basal body have be determine use a green fluorescent protein fusion to it c - terminus , and with an n - terminal antibody , respectively [ 20 , 21 ] .
these data be consistent with a role for alms1 in the function of cilium , which be support by the overlap clinical phenotype between alström syndrome and other ciliopathies , especially bb .
additionally , mouse model of bb and alström syndrome lack sperm flagellum and a modify cilium ; and show aberrant transport of rhodopsin , point to defective function of the connect cilium in photoreceptor cell .
in this paper , we investigate whether alms1 protein be require for the formation of cilium and , if so , whether cilium can be form in human or mouse cell with a mutate alms1 / alms1 gene .
we use an in vitro model of kidney ciliogenesis to demonstrate that knockdown of alms1 mrna cause a striking alteration in the morphology of cilium : knockdown of alms1 cause stunted or focal staining of acetylate tubulin .
the specificity of the sirna reagent be confirm by two piece of evidence .
first , two sirnas that be active in decrease mrna expression be also active in decrease formation of elongate cilium .
conversely , two additional alms1 sirnas , as well a a negative control sirna , do not decrease alms1 mrna nor do they affect the ciliary phenotype .
second , the ciliary phenotype that be induce by alms1 sirna knockdown could be rescue by cotransfection of a 5 ′ fragment of alms1 that be not target by the active sirna .
together these result rule out the possibility that the cilium phenotype cause by sirna knockdown be an off - target effect , and point to a role of alms1 in the maintenance or biogenesis of cilium .
interestingly , previous work have show that cilium be form in cell with mutant alms1 / alms1 .
to reconcile those finding with our sirna knockdown data , we posit a functional role for the truncate alms1 protein encode by the mutant allele .
alms1 mrna in our mutant mouse strain be present at level similar to those in wild - type mouse , despite the presence of a premature stop codon .
we also find that the mutant alms1 protein be detectable and localize to ciliary basal body in cell from these mouse , just a be observe for wild - type alms1 .
additionally , in unpublished data , immunohistochemistry with the antibody raise against the n - terminus of alms1 show prominent staining in the mutant pancreatic islet , confirm that protein could be stably express from the mutant allele .
to test whether there be a function for the mutant protein , we show that knockdown of the mutant alms1 mrna inhibit ciliogenesis in primary cell from these mouse .
we also show that the ciliary phenotype induce by knockdown of alms1 could be rescue use a cdna encode only the n - terminal 1,282 amino acid of alms1 , confirm that the n - terminus of alms1 be sufficient to support cilium formation .
a spectrum of nonsense and frameshift mutation cause alström syndrome , and all have different effect .
however , no genotype / phenotype correlation have be observe among human patient [ 29 – 31 ] .
furthermore , two mouse model of alström syndrome report to date , as well a a third model report in this manuscript , contain allele that be predict to encode the n - terminus of the protein , and the report phenotype be very consistent .
thus , we suggest that truncation of alms1 / alms1 , secondary to mutation in ( predominantly ) exon 8 , 10 , and 16 , lead to similar phenotype in human and mouse .
in particular , we provide evidence for residual function of the disease - associate allele .
this residual function of mutant alms1 allele might explain a lack of the more severe developmental phenotype describe in animal model with mutation of intraflagellar transport ( ift ) or kinesin motor protein [ 26 , 32 , 33 ] .
there be grow support for the “ antenna ” role of primary cilium a a key participant in sense environmental stimulus , transduction of intracellular signaling , and regulation of morphogenetic pathway .
study of bb patient and bb knockout animal model have reveal the role of primary cilium in sense of light and olfaction [ 14 , 16 , 17 , 19 ] .
the kidney primary cilium , extend from the tubular epithelium into the lumen , have be implicate in mechanosensation : genetic or chemical disruption of cilium inhibit intracellular calcium influx in response to laminar flow [ 34 , 35 ] .
recent study have suggest that cilium constitute an essential platform where signaling process be initiate .
the hedgehog receptor smoothened and the platelet - derive growth factor receptor alpha localize to the cilium and , in both case , ciliary localization be require for signaling transduction [ 36 , 37 ] .
we show here that alms1 be necessary for formation of kidney epithelial cilium , which in turn be know to be essential for mechanosensory signaling .
well - characterized genetic disorder of primary cilium include the family of pkd , inherit either a adpkd or arpkd trait .
while arpkd be congenital and often cause fetal or neonatal death , the onset of the adpkd be mainly in adulthood with age - dependent progression [ 5 ] .
animal model of pkd have be develop by genetic mutation of pkd gene [ 38 – 41 ] , loss of kidney cilium by inhibition of ift component [ 10 , 42 ] , or constitutive activation of the wnt pathway [ 43 ] .
recent data have start to build a connection between these seemingly unrelated genetic perturbation in pkd , ift , and wnt gene .
localization of pkd protein have be observe on , or at the base of , cilium and cilium be dependent on ift for protein transport to and from the cytoplasm [ 44 ] .
both pkd1 and pkd2 function on cilium to sense lumenal flow and control cell proliferation .
specifically , fluid flow over the cilium increase expression of inversin , which in turn target cytoplasmic dsh , inhibit the canonical wnt pathway [ 45 ] .
it have be propose that urine flow terminate the canonical wnt pathway in favor of the noncanonical wnt pathway .
the noncanonical wnt pathway might then maintain planar cell polarity and restrict cell division in a direction parallel to the long axis of the tubule .
moreover , bb protein have be show to directly interact with protein which regulate planar cell polarity [ 46 ] , as well a in ciliary protein transport [ 47 ] , suggest a model in which defect in cilium disrupt planar cell polarity signaling and lead to disorientate cell division and cyst formation .
exist mouse pkd animal model be characterize by the formation of early - onset cyst in the collect tubule , reminiscent of human arpkd .
in contrast , the alms1 mutant mouse model present here show cilium loss in the proximal tubule .
far , adult mouse progress to a breakdown in maintenance of kidney epithelial cellular quiescence , with a dramatic increase in apoptotic and proliferate cell restrict to those tubule that have lose cilium .
this be accompany by tubular dilatation and mild proteinurea in old mutant mouse .
all these phenotype be similar to clinical feature of adpkd , make the alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse strain an interesting animal model to study the relation of cilium loss , alter signaling , and cellular proliferation in the progression of cystic kidney disease in the proximal tubule .
initiation of adpkd be suggest to be dependent on a second somatic mutation in the wild - type allele of pkd1 or pkd2 .
evidence for this hypothesis be controversial a somatic mutagenesis rate in nontransformed cell be likely to be too low to explain the high prevalence of bilateral disease in heterozygous carrier [ 48 , 49 ] and a reduce expression of pkd1 be sufficient to initiate cystogenesis [ 41 ] .
in this recessive model of ciliary dysfunction in the kidney , we also observe localize expression of the cellular phenotype ( cilium loss , apoptosis , or proliferation ) .
this suggest that in this model , and perhaps in human late - onset kidney disease , non-genetic and / or epigenetic factor be necessary for expression of the phenotype .
the disease - like allele of alms1 , although functionally able to support cilium formation in vitro , in young mouse and in old mouse in the kidney medulla , might reveal a compromise function in the cortex during aging .
we also note that the expression of the cellular kidney phenotype in our model be not random but show a variegate pattern on a tubule - by - tubule basis .
some tubule cross section appear to have normal cilium , and little to no proliferation or apoptosis , whereas other tubule cross section show extensive loss of cilium , sometimes with all or nearly all of the epithelial cell either proliferate or in apoptosis .
the presume somatic event , which , in combination with a genetic predisposition , cause some tubule to appear dysfunctional while neighboring tubule have a wild - type appearance , be not know .
however , more detailed characterization of the progression of the phenotype might suggest treatment that maintain tubular integrity and delay disease .
material and method
cell culture and ciliogenesis assay .
mimcd3 cell be obtain from american type culture collection ( www.atcc.org ) and culture in dmem / f12 medium ( invitrogen , http://www.invitrogen.com ) supplement with 10 % fbs , 2.5 mm l - glutamine .
for cilium formation assay , 50,000 cell be seed on 12 - mm transwell filter ( costar ) .
filter be collect at day 0 , day 1 , day 3 , day 5 , and day 7 after seed for rna isolation and cilium immunostaining .
knockdown of alms1 expression by rnai .
we design sirna specific to alms1 by online block - it rnai designer ( invitrogen ) .
these sirna sequence be : 5 ′ - gctgtatgtagtcgaatta - 3 ′ ( alms1a ) ; 5 ′ - gcctgattccttgtttcaa - 3 ′ ( alms1b ) ; 5 ′ - gcagtagtctcttctgctt - 3 ′ ( alms1c ) ; 5 ′ - gcttcagctttgctgaatt - 3 ′ ( alms1d ) .
sirna be synthesize by qiagen ( http://www1.qiagen.com ) .
for rnai transfection , mimcd3 cell be seed a previously describe and transfected with lipofectamine 2000 ( invitrogen ) accord to manufacturer 's instruction .
dna construct .
the mouse alms1 cdna be generate from mimcd3 mrna .
n - terminus ( aa : 1 – 1,282 ) be clone into p3xflag - cmv vector ( sigma , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) to generate n - alms1 - flag plasmid .
rna isolation and labeling for array analysis .
cell be transfected on day 0 with either a scramble sirna control ( one of two sirnas direct against alms1 ) or mock - transfected .
cell be seed on day 1 and allow to reach confluence through day 7 .
cilium be form in the mock - transfected and scramble sirna - transfected cell .
sample be take for gene expression on day 0 , 1 , 3 , 5 , and 7 for the mock - transfected cell ; day 0 , 1 , 3 , and 5 for scramble sirna - transfected cell ; and day 1 , 3 , and 5 for cell transfected with sirnas against alms1 .
rna be isolate use the rneasy kit from qiagen .
total rna be examine on an agilent bioanalyzer ( agilent , http://www.agilent.com ) and the 28 / 18 ratio exceed 2.0 for all sample .
cdna and crna be prepare from 4 μg total rna accord to standard affymetrix protocol ( http://www.affymetrix.com/support/technical/manual/expression_manual.affx ) .
the in vitro transcription kit use be the genechip ivt labeling kit ( affymetrix ) .
all reaction be process at the same time by the same individual .
we select a group of 98 gene that have the high relative gene expression change during ciliogenesis in the mock - transfected cell .
the query be : ( max expression level for day 0 , 1 , 3 , 5 , and 7 for the mock - transfected cell ) divide by the maximum ( the minimum expression level over these sample and a cutoff value of 400 arbitrary unit ) .
four hundred unit be approximately the 77th percentile of expression across all 36,000 probesets for a given sample .
we select the top 98 gene by this ratio ( ratio > 7.4 ) and then cluster the gene base on their expression level in the mock - transfected sample .
comparison of this pattern with the sample that be transfected with either a scramble or target sirna show no significant change in the broad transcriptional program that be associate with ciliogenesis , suggest that alms1 be unlikely to play a role in transcription regulation associate with ciliogenesis .
ca2+ imaging assay .
mimcd3 cell , grow on cover glass , be transfected with alms1 rnai or scramble control sirna use lipofectamine 2000 ( invitrogen ) , and cell be grow for 5 more d to induce cilium formation .
ca2+ imaging be perform a describe [ 6 ] .
briefly , cell be incubate with 5 μm fura2 - am ( molecular probe , invitrogen ) for 30 – 60 min at 37 ° c .
cover glass be place in a laminar flow perfuse chamber ( warner instrument corporation , http://www.warneronline.com ) .
after 20 min equilibration , cell be perfuse with medium a describe [ 6 ] via a local perfusion pipette .
image of fura - 2 load cell with excitation wavelength alternate between 340 nm and 380 nm be capture by a ccd camera .
follow subtraction of background fluorescence , the ratio of fluorescence at two wavelength be analyze use metafluor ( universal imaging corporation ) .
all experiment have be repeat in triplicate and similar result be obtain .
generation and phenotypic analysis of alms1 mutant mouse .
we identify alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse in an ethyl nitroso urea – forward genetics screen .
mutant mouse be generate by successive intercrossing of heterozygote alms1l2131x animal on a mix c57bl6 / nod genetic background .
body composition be determine by quantitative magnetic resonance accord to protocol supply by the manufacturer ( echo medical system , http://www.echomri.com ) .
all plasma analytes be measure in retinal blood sample .
serum glucose , cholesterol , hdl , and triglyceride level be determine by olympus au400e .
leptin and insulin level be analyze by elisa ( crystal chemical incorporated ) .
histology and immunohistochemistry .
mouse be anesthetize with avertin ( sigma , 1.25 % , 0.02 ml per gram body weight ) , perfuse with 10 % sucrose solution and 4 % paraformaldehyde .
tissue be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde , process , and embed in paraffin .
5 - μm tissue section be process for hematoxylin - eosin ( h & e ) and immunostaining .
for routine immunostaining , the section be deparaffinized with xylene and rehydrated with grade ethanol .
primary antibody use in this study be : γ - tubulin ; acetylate tubulin ( sigma ) ; β - galactosidase ( abcam , http://www.abcam.com/index.html? ) ; ki67 ( neomarker rabbit monoclonal ) ; aquaporin - 2 ( santa cruz biotechnology , http://www.scbt.com ) .
we generate polyclonal antibody to alms1 by inject rabbit with the synthetic peptide mepedlpwpdele , represent amino acid 1 – 13 of mouse alms1 .
dilution be follow the manufacturer 's suggestion .
antibody be visualize by vectastain immunodetection kit ( vector laboratory , incorporated , http://www.vectorlabs.com ) .
for indirect immunofloresence , alexa488 and texas red conjugate secondary antibody be obtain from molecular probe , incorporated .
isolation and culture primary fibroblast and kidney cortical duct cell .
wild - type and alms1l2131x / l2131x embryo be harvest at embryonic day 12.5 and mince by passage through a syringe with an 18 g needle .
embryonic fibroblast be culture in 10 % fbs dmem medium .
for generation of primary kidney epithelial cell , mouse ( postnatal day 5 ) be anesthetize by intraperitoneal injection of 2.5 % avertin .
kidney cortex be dissect by handheld microtome .
the slice be dissociate with dmem contain 1 mg / ml collagenase .
digest tissue be then pass sequentially through 100 - μm and 45 - μm sieve , and centrifuge at 1,000 × g for 10 min at room temperature .
the pellet be resuspend and culture in renal epithelial growth medium ( regm bullet kit , cambrex bioscience , http://www.cambrex.com ) .
support information
figure s1
identification of alms1l2131x / l2131x strain
( a ) genotyping data for f2 mouse derive from outcross of g3 mouse from an ethyl nitroso urea screen on a c57bl / 6 background to nod , follow by intercrossing of the f1 offspring .
genotype be mark a “ b ” for a b6 - derive allele , “ h ” for heterozygote , and “ n ” for a nod - derive allele .
base on the phenotype and genotype data , black shading denote the include region for the position of the mutation and gray shading denote the exclude region .
map position refer to public mouse genome assembly m33 ( http://www.ensembl.org/mus_musculus/index.html ) .
( b ) resequencing alms1 gene in mutant mouse show nonsense mutation at exon 10 .
schematic structure of alms1 be draw to scale base on a genomic search of alms1 cdna ( http://www.genome.ucsc.edu ) .
( 327 kb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
serum analytes in alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse and control
plasma glucose , triglyceride , insulin , leptin , total cholesterol , and hdl cholesterol measurement in 60 - to 80 - d - old and 140 - to 170 - d - old alms1l2131x / l2131x , alms1 + / l2131x , and alms1 + / + mouse .
arrow , diabetic mutant male .
( 445 kb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
loss of cilium in the kidney cortex of aged alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse
cilium be lose in the cortex tubule ( a ) but not in the medulla tubule ( b ) in an age - dependent manner .
cilium be stain with an anti-acetylated tubulin antibody .
( 2.0 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
gene expression change after knockdown of alms1
gene expression level of 98 gene with the most dramatic change in mimcd3 cell transfected with alms1 sirnas compare to a scramble sirna control and a mock - transfected control .
( 126 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank ) accession number for alms1 mouse cdna be af425257 and the refseq ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/refseq ) accession number for alms1 mouse protein be np660258 .
acknowledgement
we thank richard cornall , samantha zaharevitz , conan liu , hanh garcia , david lloyd , satchin panda , james watson , john walker , and a. huang for help and advice throughout the course of this work .
we also thank m. bandell and t. jegla for technical assistance in ca2+ imaging .
abbreviation
adpdk - autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease
arpkd - autosomal recessive polycystic kidney disease
bb - bardet - biedl syndrome
ift - intraflagellar transport
lta - lotus tetragonolobus agglutinin
mimcd3 - mouse inner medullary collect duct
pkd - polycystic kidney disease
sirna - short interfere rna
figure and table
figure 1
suppression of alms1 expression alter primary cilium formation in kidney epithelial cell
( a ) elongate cilium , visualize with staining of acetylate tubulin ( green ) , form normally in mimcd3 cell after mock - transfection , transfection with a negative control sirna , or transfection with two inactive sirnas direct against alms1 ( alms1c and alms1d ) .
focal staining of acetylate tubulin without axoneme extension be see after transfection with two active sirnas target alms1 ( alms1a and alms1b ) .
( b ) real - time pcr analysis with two mouse alms1 probe recognize the junction of exon 1 and 2 and exon 12 and 13 , respectively : alms1a and alms1b sirnas both cause 70 % – 80 % knockdown of alms1 mrna ; no effect on alms1 mrna be see with the three sirnas that be inactive in the ciliogenesis assay .
( c ) alms1a sirna - treat cell lose endogenous alms1 protein expression .
acet , acetylate .
scale bar , 10 μm .
figure 2
loss of alms1 do not affect transcriptional change during ciliogenesis but cause impairment in flow - induce mechanosensation
( a ) confocal microscopic analysis of cilium biogenesis in mimcd3 cell .
short cilium can be detect at day 3 after transfection .
mimcd3 cell transfected with alms1a sirna have stunted cilium at day 3 and 5 .
cell be stain with anti-acetylated tubulin ( yellow , cilium ) and to - pro - 3 ( red , nucleus ) .
( b ) suppression of alms1 do not affect the upregulation of bbs4 and ttc10 during ciliogenesis .
n , negative sirna ; 1a , alms1a sirna ; 1b , alms1b sirna .
( c ) heat map representation of microarray analysis of mimcd3 during ciliogenesis .
98 gene with the most dramatic change in expression show approximately equivalent expression change in the presence of a scramble sirna control , or in the presence of specific sirnas that decrease alms1 mrna level and block cilium formation .
( d ) stunt cilium form in the presence of alms1a sirna ( red ) lack flow - induce ca2+ influx in mimcd3 cell , compare with a negative control sirna ( blue ) .
representative data be show for cytosolic calcium change of individual cell in response to mechanical flow .
arrow point to the start of flow .
figure 3
n - terminal alms1 protein can support cilium formation
( a ) cotransfection of alms1a sirna - treat cell with a 5 ′ alms1 cdna construct rescue primary cilium formation in mimcd3 cell .
( b ) real - time pcr analysis of alms1a sirna and n - terminal alms1 - transfected cell .
upper panel : over - expression of the 5 ′ cdna do not affect knockdown of endogenous alms1 mrna with alms1a sirna .
low panel : knockdown of endogenous alms1 mrna do not affect overexpression of the 5 ′ cdna .
n , negative control sirna ; cdna , 5 ′ alms1 cdna ; 1a , alms1a sirna .
( c ) stable expression of alms1 mrna from the alms1l2131x / l2131x allele .
real - time pcr analysis of alms1 gene expression in an alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse and a wild - type littermate control .
( d ) the n - terminal mouse alms1 antibody detect alms1 mutant protein at the ciliary basal body in primary kidney cell from the alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse .
show be low and high magnification of the ciliated cell .
arrowhead point out the base of cilium .
( e ) normal appearance of primary cilium in primary fibroblast ( mef ) and primary kidney cell ( pkc ) from the alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse strain .
( f ) inhibition of cilium formation in alms1a sirna - treat alms1l2131x / l2131x primary fibroblast .
scale bar , 10 μm .
figure 4
alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse recapitulate human alström syndrome
( a ) alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse gain more fat mass than heterozygote or wild - type control but equivalent lean mass .
( b ) histological examination of alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse and wild - type littermate control .
inset show oil red o staining of frozen liver section .
( c ) testis h & e section show degeneration of seminiferous tubule ( arrow ) , which have reduced number of germinal cell .
reduced number of sperm flagellum with decrease length be observe in the epididymus of alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse ( anti-acetylated tubulin , green ) .
h & e , hematoxylin - eosin .
( d ) rhodopsin staining in the out nuclear layer cell body be see in rare cell in the alms1l2131x / l2131x animal ( arrow ) but not in wild - type littermate control .
inset illustrate high magnification image .
onl , out nuclear layer ; is , inner segment ; o ; out segment .
scale bar , 50 μm .
figure 5
kidney abnormality in alms1 mutant mouse
( a ) h & e - stain kidney section of a 6 - mo - old alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse show dilated cortex tubule compare with an age - match wild - type control .
lack of kidney cilium be observe in some tubule in the cortex of alms1l2131x / l2131x kidney , whereas cilium in the medulla appear normal .
h & e , hematoxylin - eosin ; acet , acetylate .
( b ) cortex cilium count comparison between alms1l2131x / l2131x and control .
300 – 400 kidney nucleus be examine for each of six field of alms1l2131x / l2131x and wild - type control .
the bar chart represent the average and standard deviation of cilium count per 100 kidney cortex epithelial cell from eight mouse per group .
( c ) in the cortex of alms1l2131x / l2131x kidney , cilium be lose selectively in lta - label tubule but not in aquaporin - 2 - express tubule .
( d ) upper panel : cluster of ki67 - positive proliferate epithelial cell in the alms1l2131x / l2131x kidney , potentially line the same convoluted tubule .
low panel : tunel staining reveal apoptotic cell in alms1l2131x / l2131x kidney but rarely in a wild - type control .
arrow , whole tubule cross section be label by tunel , suggest progression of nephropathy in alms1l2131x / l2131x mutant kidney .
wt , wild - type .
( e ) urinalysis of 3 - to 6 - mo - old alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse and age - match littermate control .
urine from alms1l2131x / l2131x mouse show slight elevation of protein level , p = 0.007 .
scale bar , 50 μm .
footnote
¤ current address : genomics institute of the novartis research foundation , san diego , california , united state of america
compete interest .
rjg own stock in phenomix .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on november 30 , 2006 ( doi : 10.1371/journal.pgen.0030008.eor ) .
author contribution .
gl , kn , cg , pm , nah , and rg conceive and design the experiment .
gl , rv , kn , and hw perform the experiment .
gl , kn , nah , and rg analyze the data .
gl , ng , and cg contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
gl and rg write the paper .
fund .
this work be fund by phenomix corporation and the genomics institute of the novartis research foundation .
dopamine d2 receptor mediate two - odor discrimination and reversal learning in c57bl / 6 mouse
abstract
background
dopamine modulation of neuronal signaling in the frontal cortex , midbrain , and striatum be essential for process and integrate diverse external sensory stimulus and attach salience to environmental cue that signal causal relationship , thereby guide goal - direct , adaptable behavior .
at the cellular level , dopamine signaling be mediate through d1 - like or d2 - like receptor .
although a role for d1 - like receptor in a variety of goal - direct behavior have be identify , an explicit involvement of d2 receptor have not be clearly establish .
to determine whether dopamine d2 receptor - mediate signaling contribute to associative and reversal learning , we compare c57bl / 6j mouse that completely lack functional dopamine d2 receptor to wild - type mouse with respect to their ability to attach appropriate salience to external stimulus ( stimulus discrimination ) and disengage from inappropriate behavioral strategy when reinforcement contingency change ( e.g. reversal learning ) .
result
mildly food - deprive female wild - type and dopamine d2 receptor deficient mouse rapidly learn to retrieve and consume visible food reinforcer from a small plastic dish .
furthermore , both genotype readily learn to dig through the same dish fill with sterile sand in order to locate a buried food pellet .
however , the dopamine d2 receptor deficient mouse require significantly more trial than wild - type mouse to discriminate between two dish , each fill with a different scent sand , and to associate one of the two odor with the presence of a reinforcer ( food ) .
in addition , the dopamine d2 receptor deficient mouse repeatedly fail to alter their response pattern during reversal trial where the reinforcement rule be invert .
conclusion
inbred c57bl / 6j mouse that develop in the complete absence of functional dopamine d2 receptor be capable of olfaction but display an impaired ability to acquire odor - drive reinforcement contingency .
furthermore , the ability of dopamine d2 receptor deficient mouse to adjust their responding to a previously reinforce stimulus when unexpected outcome be encounter be significantly impaired .
these finding suggest that signaling mediate by the dopamine d2 receptor be important for regulate associative and reversal learning and may have implication for the treatment of human attention disorder .
background
reinforcement - mediate associative learning , or the ability to ascribe deterministic relationship between environmental stimulus that signal the probability of receive a primary reinforcer ( e.g. food ) , have be divide into 3 component or stage [ 1 ] .
the first , unlearned stage be the organism 's experience with a primary reinforcer that elicit some unlearned / innate physiological response ( e.g. palatability of a food or satiety ) .
the second phase involve the attachment of salience to external stimulus ( discriminative stimulus ) that signal whether the delivery of a primary reinforcer will or will not occur base on some emitted behavior ( e.g. a rodent lever press for food pellet only when a stimulus light be illuminate in an operant chamber ) .
finally , there be the maintenance of associative learning relationship over time ( a stimulus light always signify a food pellet be available subsequent to a lever press ) [ see refs. [ 1 , 2 ] for review ] .
berridge and robinson [ 1 ] have propose that dopamine play a pivotal role in the second phase of reinforcement - mediate associative learning by mold the " incentive salience " or learned motivational property of condition stimulus .
in support of this view be several study demonstrate that the disruption of dopamine signaling via acute blockade of dopamine receptor with dopamine receptor antagonist [ 3 - 9 ] or 6 - ohda lesion [ 1 , 10 , 11 ] do not disrupt phase 1 , the palatability or primary reinforce characteristic of a natural reinforcer ( e.g. palatability ) but disrupt phase 2 , the formation of incentive salience .
dopamine signaling be mediate at the cellular level by two major subclass of g - protein couple receptor that be refer to a d - 1 like ( d1ar , d1b / 5r ) or d - 2 like ( d2r , d3r , d4r ) [ 12 , 13 ] .
although individual gene code for each dopamine receptor subtype , there be considerable pharmacological overlap between d1 - like and d2 - like receptor .
several study have use pharmacological manipulation to investigate the contribution of dopamine receptor subtypes in various stage of associative learning [ 1 , 2 , 14 ] .
currently it be hold that excitatory dopamine d1rs mediate the acquisition and expression of several conditioned behavior involve food reinforcer [ e.g. [ 6 , 7 ] ] as well a respond for condition cue predictive of cocaine delivery [ 9 ] – consistent with the interpretation that d1r mediated signaling might modulate the maintenance of stimulus - response outcome .
despite a grow literature demonstrate disrupted associative learning follow acute manipulation of dopamine d1r signaling during acquisition of associative learning task with food [ e.g. [ 6 , 7 ] ] , the actual contribution of d2r - mediate signaling on acquisition and maintenance of associative learning in rodent be unresolved .
while d2r antagonist have be use in the context of rodent associative learning paradigm , their lack of receptor subtype specificity [ 13 ] and motor - disrupt effect [ 6 , 8 ] have prevent a rigorous examination of the actual role this dopamine receptor subtype play in associative and reversal learning in the context of an operant behavior .
past experiment seek to explore the possible involvement of dopamine d2rs in associative learning have utilize low to moderate dos of drug [ 2 , 5 , 6 ] and site - specific administration [ 7 , 9 ] in order to avoid the confound effect that locomotor disruption associate with acute d2r blockade can have on learning performance in rodent .
besides their lack of receptor subtype specificity , an acute exposure to commercially available d2 receptor antagonist fail to completely block signaling mediate solely by d2rs .
moreover , acute dosing do not recapitulate the marked learning deficit produce in rodent [ 15 , 16 ] by chronic exposure to dopamine d2r antagonist [ 6 , 7 ] .
the influence of dopamine d2r - mediate signaling on reversal learning be also poorly understand .
reversal learning can be conceptualize a the ability to recognize an unexpected consequence to a previously establish associative learning rule and then alter response strategy accordingly [ 17 , 18 ] .
reversal learning in rodent can serve a an index of learn adaptability and alertness that correlate with human attentional - shift paradigm [ 17 , 18 ] .
additionally , a previous report demonstrate that excitotoxic lesion of terminal field target of mesocortical dopamine have be show to disrupt reversal learning [ 19 ] .
administration of the d2r / d3r antagonist , sulpiride , impair spatial reversal leaning in mouse [ 20 ] and have also be show to impair attention and the cognitive performance of healthy human volunteer [ 21 ] .
moreover an inverse relationship between low dopamine d2r level and compulsive behavior in human subject have be report [ 22 ] .
take together these finding suggest that d2r - mediate signaling could play a critical role in reversal learning but be insufficient to prove it .
in an effort to establish the contribution of dopamine d2 receptor - mediate signaling to associative and non-spatial reversal learning in adult mouse , we compare mouse [ 23 ] that have develop in the complete absence of all functional dopamine d2 receptor ( d2r - / - ) to wild - type littermates ( d2r + / + ) in a go / no - go operant learn procedure that measure primary reinforcement , sensory processing , and reversal learning [ 17 - 19 ] .
here we report that dopamine d2r - mediate signaling must be intact if a mouse be to efficiently learn to associate a food reinforcer with a specific odor and then adaptively disengage inappropriate behavioral strategy follow the reversal of reinforcement contingency .
result
both wild - type and d2r deficient mouse learn operant behavior equally well
mildly food - deprive d2r + / + and d2r - / - mouse readily learn to locate and consume food pellet during both training session .
figure 1 depict the latency for both genotype to ambulate to a dish to retrieve an unhidden food pellet .
there be no difference between genotype to retrieve the reinforcer ( f1 , 59 = 0.2 , p > 0.65 ) , and both group significantly decrease the amount of time necessary to perform this task along successive trial ( f4 , 59 = 5.74 , p < 0.001 ) .
figure 2 depict the latency to dig for the food pellet bury in a single dish fill with unscented sand .
no genotype difference be find in the ability to dig through unscented sand for a hidden food pellet ( f1 , 128 = 1.26 , p > 0.27 ) .
wild - type mouse outperform d2r - / - mouse in an odor - drive , stimulus - discrimination , operant task
to master the odor - drive stimulus discrimination task , d2r - / - mouse require significantly more trial ( fig. 3a : t ( 14 ) = 2.20 ; p < 0.05 ) and commit more error ( fig. 3b : t ( 14 ) = 2.92 ; p < 0.05 ) than d2r + / + mouse to learn to associate a specific odor with the presence or absence of the food reinforcer .
however , both genotype do learn the task and eventually maintain accurate discrimination for a minimum of 8 correct response out of 10 trial .
mouse lack dopamine d2 receptor engage in unreinforced behavior in a perseverative manner follow reversal of reinforcement contingency
d2r - / - mouse repeatedly fail to inhibit previously establish learn contingency during reversal trial ( fig. 4a : t ( 14 ) = 3.54 ; p < 0.01 ) and commit significantly more reversal error than d2r + / + mouse ( fig. 4b : t ( 14 ) = 3.18 ; p < 0.01 ) .
categorical division of reversal error ( ferry et al. , 2000 ) – dig in the dish that do not contain the food pellet ( s - ) ( error of commission ; fig. 5a ) versus fail to respond within 3 - min of presentation ( error of omission ; fig. 5b ) reveal that both genotype chiefly commit error of commission versus error of omission ( d2r - / - mouse , u = 0.00 ; p < 0.01 ; d2r + / + mouse u = 9.00 , p < 0.05 ) , d2r - / - mouse commit more commission error than d2r + / + mouse ( u = 5.00 , p < 0.05 ) , and there be no difference between d2r - / - and d2r + / + mouse in omission error ( u = 27.5 , p = 0.65 ) .
moreover , the number of commission error commit during the first reversal session ( an index of stimulus bind perseveration , where all animal be respond to the reverse contingency for the first time ; fig. 6 ) indicate a deficit in the d2r - / - mouse compare to the d2r + / + mouse ( u = 8.5 , p < 0.01 ) .
finally , in an attempt to assess whether perseveration occur across multiple reversal session ( fig. 7 ) , we analyze the number of commission error emit before relearn the reinforcement contingency during the reversal session .
the data depict be collect from subject that have not achieve the 80 % performance criterion .
therefore , the number of d2r + / + mouse represent in session # 1 be 8 , in session # 2 n = 8 , session # 3 n = 6 ( 2 mouse meet our criterion ) , in session # 4 n = 5 ( three meet the criterion ) .
follow session 5 , the remain 5 d2r + / + mouse have meet criterion .
for the d2r - / - mouse , each point on the graph represent 8 subject .
none of the d2r - / - mouse achieve the criterion of 80 % accuracy by session 5 .
for the overall 2 - way anova , there be a significant difference between genotype for the number of perseverative error ( f1 , 51 = 16.61 , p < 0.001 ) .
discussion
in this study , we seek to determine the contribution of dopamine d2 receptor - mediate signaling to the various stage of associative and reversal learning .
d2r - / - mouse demonstrate that they be capable of learn to locate and consume food pellet , indicate that their locomotor behavior be not detectably disrupt and their primary motivation to obtain a natural reinforcer ( food pellet ) be undisturbed .
rather , the impaired ability of d2r - / - mouse to assign appropriate discriminative stimulus relationship in an operant discrimination task argue that d2r - mediate signaling contribute to the neuronal process involve in attach salience to environmental stimulus .
the deficient capacity of d2r - / - mouse to disengage inappropriate decision strategy strongly argue that mesolimbic dopamine signaling , mediate by dopamine d2rs be essential for efficient reversal learning to occur .
mouse with or without intact dopamine d2r - mediate signaling display similar decrease in latency to retrieve unhidden food pellet ( fig. 1 ) and learn to dig for food bury in unscented sand ( fig. 2 ) .
these finding be in complete agreement with early study that utilize rat and fairly selective d2r antagonist [ 3 - 8 ] , as well a even very extensive 6 - ohda lesion [ 1 , 10 , 11 ] in associative and operant learning paradigm .
our result add to a grow literature demonstrate a negligible role of dopamine , and now , specifically , d2rs in the unconditioned or hedonic value of natural ( food ) reinforcer [ 1 , 2 ] .
the comparatively poor skill of d2r - / - mouse during discrimination trial suggest a role for d2rs in acquisition of appropriate s + / s - relationship in operant associative learning .
several study have demonstrate that both the acquisition [ 6 , 7 ] and expression [ 9 ] of associative learning be mediate by dopamine d1rs .
most literature review identify dopamine d1rs with dopamine - mediate learning and d2rs with motor relate behavior [ e.g. [ 24 ] ] .
moreover , it have be report that acute administration of the dopamine d2 / 3 antagonist , raclopride , actually improve acquisition of food - motivate associative learning [ 6 ] .
however , only acute administration of antagonist be give , and learning be not measure during complete d1r or d2r blockade [ 6 ] .
significantly , the report cite above fail to address the technical limitation of the approach : i.e. that the antagonist use lack adequate subtype specificity and only partially block d2r - mediate signaling thus make it impossible to rigorously assess the role of d2r - mediate signaling in associative and reversal learning .
additionally , none of these study address the observation that the effect of d2r antagonist on locomotion and learning depend on whether exposure be chronic or acute [ e.g. [ 15 , 16 ] ] .
that d2r - mediate signaling orchestrate just motor component of learning be a conclusion that be potentially bias due to the practice of avoid dos of drug that induce catalepsy ( and therefore measure only partial blockade of dopamine d2rs ) and single administration [ e.g. [ 3 ] ] .
quite possibly , the functional role of d2rs in associative learning might be mask because of this concern about locomotor disruption [ 2 , 6 , 8 ] .
dos of raclopride as low a 0.5 mg / kg significantly disrupt motor behavior [ 25 ] , although this peripheral dose be consistently use in learn paradigm [ e.g. [ 6 ] ] .
one might then ask : " how then could the role of d2rs in associative learning be dissociate from motor behavior ? "
seminal experiment [ 26 - 28 ] have clearly demonstrate that repeated administration of catalepsy - induce dos of d2r antagonist in rodent actually lead to a striking behavioral tolerance to catalepsy .
these dos have be show to occupy well over 80 % of available d2rs [ 29 ] .
future experiment measure acquisition of associative learning in rodent that receive chronic administration of d2r antagonist and demonstrate behavioral tolerance to their motor disrupt effect would be a logical test of this hypothesis .
however , the realization that multiple dopamine receptor subtypes would be concurrently target with the presently commercially available antagonist , such a d2rs , d3rs , and d4rs would have to be rectify .
we would argue that the most parsimonious approach at this time be to utilize mouse that have be genetically alter such that they be lack one or both functional allele of the specific receptor of interest .
while they do have their limitation ( e.g. developmental compensation and strain effect in mouse line not backcross adequately to a parental strain for a minimum of 10 generation ) , use of our inbred ( n20 generation ) animal in the present study ( where no difference in locomotor behavior be detect between d2r - / - and d2r + / + mouse ; figs. 1 & 2 ) reveal a previously unappreciated role of d2r - mediate signaling in associative learning and attention that could not be measure with the currently available , acutely administer d2r antagonist .
a cursory analysis of our data might suggest to some that the genetic manipulation of the drd2 locus confer a gross olfactory impairment to the d2r - / - mouse .
rather , we argue that this be not likely because the d2r - / - mouse do learn to retrieve the food pellet from the dish and eventually learn to accurately discriminate odor .
recent electrophysiological data demonstrate that dopamine d2r's be locate on glutamatergic terminal axon of olfactory nerve and depress excitatory input of the olfactory nerve to the mitral cell of the olfactory bulb [ 30 , 31 ] .
consequently , our data , and data from other study , suggest that the complete lack of d2rs in the olfactory bulb do not prevent transduction of olfactory stimulus ; rather it affect the ability to habituate , or tune , olfactory nerve activity associate with repeatedly encounter concentration of chemical stimulus [ 32 ] .
the performance of d2r - / - mouse during reversal learning be deficient reveal a role for dopamine d2r - mediate signaling in task require behavioral flexibility
perseverative behavioral pattern characterize the d2r - / - mouse relative to d2r + / + mouse during reversal learning session ( figure 4 ) , manifest during early reversal trial ( figure 6 ) and persist across several session ( figure 7 ) .
these finding be significant because d2r - / - mouse respond to food reinforcer and ultimately form and maintain odor - drive s + / s - relationship ( a putative d1r - mediate behavior [ 6 ] ) just a d2r + / + mouse ( both group achieve ≥ 80 % discrimination accuracy , the dopamine d1rs in our mouse be not target ) .
a future extension of this study would be to test performance over a fix number of trial and determine pattern of error rate during acquisition of the discrimination and reversal learning task .
this manipulation would control the number of error base on trial perform to determine if the apparent difference in absolute number of error demonstrate by the mutant mouse ( the putative performance deficit ) be simply a reflection of extra trial .
nonetheless , the inability of d2r - / - mouse to disengage from previously establish s + / s - contingency ( respond to a discriminative stimulus ; fig. 4 ) strongly argue that mesolimbic dopamine , and in particular dopamine d2r - mediate signaling , modulate the process of alert the subject that familiar contingency be now associate unexpected consequence .
schultz and colleague have demonstrate that dopamine cell display consistent tonic firing pattern during maintenance of associative learning task [ 33 ] .
however , phasic burst activity of dopaminergic cell occur when discrepancy between predicted and actual reinforcement contingency transpire [ 14 ] .
this robust increase of dopaminergic cell activation in response to unpredicted outcome have be refer to a an " error " signal [ 14 ] .
to date , the molecular basis of this error signal have not be identify .
the inability of the d2r - / - mouse to desist respond to a previously reinforce stimulus suggest that the dopamine d2r might in fact be the focal point of this error - signal cascade .
electrophysiological data far support the hypothesis that signaling mediate by dopamine d2rs tune d1r - mediate mesocorticolimbic output .
calabresi et al. [ 34 ] demonstrate that tetanic stimulation of dorsal striatum slice prepare from d2r - / - mouse be associate with enhance epsp and a a result increase striatal synaptic efficacy .
in contrast , stimulation of dorsal striatum slice from wild - type mouse result in ipsp activity , long - term depression , and decrease neuronal activity of striatal efferent [ 34 ] .
carlsson and colleague [ 35 ] have speculate that dopamine d2r stimulation in the striatum serve to " brake " or diminish excitatory corticostriatal signaling and plasticity .
indeed , perseverative behavior be associate with over activity of the dorsal striatum in rodent [ 36 ] and over activity of the caudate in patient with adhd [ 37 ] and a strong inverse correlation of d2r binding with compulsive behavior have be report [ 22 ] .
importantly , our data indicate that the poor performance display by the d2r - / - mouse be manifestation of reversal learning deficit and not gross motivational or sensory impairment .
we therefore argue that d2rs participate in signal or alert the organism of learning contingency change during reversal learning and sculpt ongoing goal - direct behavior .
conclusion
this study demonstrate that signaling by dopamine d2rs do not mediate the hedonic value of reinforcer , support and refine early finding [ 1 , 2 ] .
however , mouse completely deficient in d2rs demonstrate disrupted acquisition of discriminative stimulus relationship and an impaired ability to recognize change in behavioral determinant .
therefore , we suggest that during associative learning or when unexpected reinforcement outcome be modify ( reversal learning ) dopamine - drive reinforcement impulse involve signaling mediate by dopamine d2rs .
in the course of associative learning , striatal synapsis [ 38 ] receive experience - drive gain [ 7 ] , thus permit newly establish reinforcement - mediate signal to traverse ascend efferent en route to the frontal cortex , complete a functional limbic / motor circuit [ 39 - 41 ] .
possibly , the lack of dopamine d2r - mediate signaling prevent refinement of the corticostriatal reinforcement circuit in the brain of the d2r - / - mouse , thus impair their ability to form s + / s - contingency and disengage inappropriate dopamine d1r - mediate associative responding when unexpected consequence to goal - direct behavior happen .
consequently , we be compel to conclude that the perseverative performance deficit demonstrate by the d2r - / - mouse in the task use in the present study reveal a previously unreported role for d2rs in associative and reversal learning .
method
subject
the sixteen , 8 – 10 week old , 25 – 30 g mouse ( 8 per genotype ) use in this study be the congenic offspring of breeder that be descendant of the original f2 hybrid ( 129 / sv × c57bl / 6j ; kelly et al. , 1997 ) that be backcross to inbred c57bl / 6j stock ( jackson laboratory , me ) .
this breeding strategy be repeat for 20 successive generation with the gender of the donor / mutant alternate with each generation .
all experimental subject be genotyped by pcr a previously describe [ 23 ] .
all testing occur randomly across estrous cycle .
the department of comparative medicine at oregon health and science university approve all protocol , and all animal be maintain in accordance to national institute of health 's guide for the care and use of laboratory animal .
experimental procedure
odor discrimination training and testing
a 2 - odor discrimination paradigm be choose because it permit a measure of attentional focus in goal - direct behavior .
odor discrimination be choose a the particular task because it be a highly robust behavior in rodent [ 18 ] .
to minimize experimental error , the experimenter be blind to genotype during testing .
mouse be mildly food deprive to approximately 85 % ad libitum weight .
dopamine d2r - / - and d2r + / + mouse ( n = 8 per group ) be initially train to ambulate the length of a polyvinyl mouse cage ( 30 - cm ) to retrieve ~ 30 - mg of pico® fat supplement rodent food locate in a small plastic cup ( 3 - cm ) attach to the floor of the testing apparatus with velcro .
each subject receive five trial , and the latency to locate and start to consume the food pellet be record manually with a standard hand - held stopwatch .
twenty - four hour later subject be train to ambulate towards and dig through the same 3 - cm dish fill with sterile sand to locate a food pellet bury underneath the sand .
subject receive 10 trial .
if a mouse fail to locate a food pellet within 10 - min of the first trial , an additional food pellet be drop on top of the dish .
this manipulation usually ensure that a subject would dig through the sand to locate the original pellet and learn this task .
the next day , mouse be present to the testing apparatus that now contain 2 dish , each fill with different scented sand .
one odor signal that a food reinforcer be bury in that particular dish ( s + ) while the other odor signal that no reinforcer be contain within that particular dish ( s - ) .
the sand be scent by add 0.80 gram of either cinnamon or dill weed to 98.8 gram of autoclaved playground sand purchase from a local farm and garden store .
finally , 0.40 gram of finely grind food be mix with the scent sand in order to mask any odor emit by the food reinforcer in the s + dish .
this final mixture do not appear to be palatable to the subject .
a trial terminate when the mouse : dig in the correct dish and consume the hidden pellet , or begin to dig in the incorrect dish .
dig be consider the actual physical displacement of sand with the forepaw and / or snout .
place forelimb on either of the dish and sniff be not consider digging and be not penalize or score .
each completed trial be separate by a 20 - sec inter-trial - interval ( iti ) .
preliminary experiment demonstrate that an extend time - out period follow an incorrect response be not require to ensure goal - direct behavior in the wild - type or mutant mouse for this particular task ( data not show ) .
therefore , the 20 - sec iti be use to separate all trial ( successful and unsuccessful ) .
the s + and s - scent be counterbalance across subject in order to control for potential scent bias ( pilot data suggest there be no bias , data not show ) .
follow accurate discrimination , define a 8 correct retrieval across 10 consecutive trial , reversal trial begin .
reversal learning measurement
we next investigate the contribution of dopamine d2rs to reversal learning behavior by invert the reinforcement contingency – now the former s + signal no reinforcer and the previous s - now indicate reinforcement availability .
this manipulation permit an evaluation of the ability to inhibit response to previously reinforce discriminative stimulus [ 18 ] .
the number of trial necessary to establish 8 out of 10 accurate response be our definition of successful reversal learning .
data analysis
the latency to retrieve a pellet from an empty dish , the latency to dig through a dish fill with unscented sand , and the number of error of commission commit across the reversal session be analyze with 2 - way analysis of variance ( genotype × trial ) .
the number of trial necessary to attain criterion performance in odor discrimination ( 8 correct response across 10 consecutive trial ) and error commit while learn the discrimination task be separate a individual testing phase ( e.g. odor discrimination and reversal learning ) and analyze separately with unpaired 2 - tailed t - test .
significance be establish at p < 0.05 .
error commit during reversal trial be far categorically separate a error of commission ( fail to withhold respond to s - ) and error of omission ( fail to dig in either dish after 3 - min have expire ) .
categorical error and number of commission error commit during the first reversal learning session be analyze between group with nonparametric mann - whitney u test .
author ' contribution
pjk design and run all of the experiment , analyze the data , and co-wrote the manuscript .
dkg oversee and facilitate the experiment and co-wrote the manuscript .
acknowledgement
this study be support by grant da07262 ( pjk ) , da12062 ( dkg ) , and mh067497 ( dkg ) .
we thank katherine m. suchland for her excellent technical assistance .
figure and table
figure 1
mouse lack dopamine d2 receptor acquire a goal - direct behavior similar to wild - type mouse .
both genotype readily learn to retrieve food pellet from a small dish and significantly decrease their latency to perform this task across trial ( * p < 0.001 ) .
figure 2
wild - type and d2r - deficient mouse perform the digging task equally well .
no difference in respond a a function of genotype be find , and similar latency to retrieve the reinforcer be see .
these response pattern suggest that the training from the previous day influence behavior , demonstrate that both genotype be capable of learn and retain goal - direct behavior .
figure 3
dopamine d2 receptor - mediate signaling contribute to the acquisition of odor discrimination / associative learning .
wild - type ( d2r + / + ) mouse outperform ( mean + standard error ) the d2r - / - mouse during acquisition of ( a ) odor discrimination ( * p < 0.05 ) , and ( b ) commit significantly few discrimination error ( *p < 0.01 ) during the discrimination task .
figure 4
d2r - / - mouse perseverate in unreinforced behavior during reversal learning trial .
the number of necessary trial ( mean + standard error ) to ( a ) demonstrate reversal learning ( * p < 0.01 ) , and ( b ) reversal error commit ( * p < 0.01 ) by d2r - / - and d2r + / + mouse .
figure 5
reversal learning measure reveal d2r - / - mouse emit significantly more error of commission but not error of omission than d2r + / + mouse .
response pattern ( mean + standard error ) by d2r - / - mouse be more suggestive of stimulus bind perseveration and not extinction .
d2r - / - mouse commit significantly more error of commission ( a ) than d2r + / + mouse ( * p < 0.01 ) , but no difference in error of omission ( b ) be observe between genotype ( p > 0.6 ) .
figure 6
mouse lack functional d2rs display an inability to withhold inappropriate response .
response pattern during first 10 reversal trial reveal deficit in mouse lack d2rs .
when the mouse encounter the invert reinforcement contingency during the first reversal learn session , the d2r - / - mouse demonstrate an almost complete inability to inhibit respond to previously reinforce stimulus compare to d2r + / + mouse ( * p < 0.001 ) .
figure 7
d2r - / - mouse commit significantly more perseverative error across reversal session than wild - type mouse .
an analysis of the time course of respond for error of commission across the first four reversal session reveal that the d2r - / - commit several more error of commission than the d2r + / + mouse ( * p < 0.001 ) .
deletion at itpr1 underlie ataxia in mouse and spinocerebellar ataxia 15 in human
abstract
we observe a severe autosomal recessive movement disorder in mouse use within our laboratory .
we pursue a series of experiment to define the genetic lesion underlie this disorder and to identify a cognate disease in human with mutation at the same locus .
through linkage and sequence analysis we show here that this disorder be cause by a homozygous in - frame 18 - bp deletion in itpr1 ( itpr1 δ18 / δ18 ) , encode inositol 1 , 4 , 5 - triphosphate receptor 1 .
a previously report spontaneous itpr1 mutation in mouse cause a phenotype identical to that observe here .
in both model in - frame deletion within itpr1 lead to a decrease in the normally high level of itpr1 expression in cerebellar purkinje cell .
spinocerebellar ataxia 15 ( sca15 ) , a human autosomal dominant disorder , map to the genomic region contain itpr1 ; however , to date no causal mutation have be identify .
because ataxia be a prominent feature in itpr1 mutant mouse , we perform a series of experiment to test the hypothesis that mutation at itpr1 may be the cause of sca15 .
we show here that heterozygous deletion of the 5 ′ part of the itpr1 gene , encompass exon 1 – 10 , 1 – 40 , and 1 – 44 in three study family , underlie sca15 in human .
author summary
we have identify a spontaneous in - frame deletion mutation in the gene itpr1 that cause a recessive movement disorder in mouse .
in an attempt to define whether any similar disease occur in human we perform a literature search for disease link to the human chromosomal region contain itpr1 .
we identify the disease spinocerebellar ataxia 15 a link to this region .
high - density genomic analysis of affect member from three family reveal that disease in these patient be cause by deletion of a large portion of the region contain itpr1 .
we show here that this mutation result in a dramatic reduction in itpr1 in cell from these patient .
these data show convincingly that itpr1 deletion underlie spinocerebellar ataxia 15 in human .
introduction
the use of forward genetics to define novel locus of interest in human disease have become increasingly viable with the implementation of large - scale mutagenesis program .
prior to these initiative this work be carry out in part by the investigation of spontaneous mutation that cause disorder in mouse breeding colony .
careful observation of these serendipitous event have lead to the establishment and study of many in vivo disease model [ 3 ] .
during the generation of a knockout line of mouse we note an early movement disorder that be inherit independently of target vector transmission .
we embark on a series of experiment to identify the genetic lesion underlie this movement disorder and to identify a cognate disease and correspond mutation in human .
here we describe this effort and the discovery of deletion at the itpr1 locus a a cause of this disorder in mouse and of spinocerebellar ataxia 15 ( sca15 ) in human .
result / discussion
during the generation of a line of mouse with knockout of the gene park7 we note an early movement disorder that be inherit independently of targeting vector transmission .
our initial observation suggest the affect mouse suffer from an apparently paroxysmal movement disorder , often induce by touch .
the abnormal movement occur predominantly below the cervical level , and the disorder appear progressive .
at initial examination , a human movement disorder specialist ( k. g. - h. ) liken the disorder to episodic intermittent ataxia or kinesiogenic paroxysmal dystonia and predict the involvement of an ion channel mutation in the etiology .
affect mouse present at approximately postnatal day 14 , and survival time without weaning be on average 4 wk after onset .
breeding experiment suggest that the observe disorder be inherit in an autosomal recessive manner .
to map the location of the disease - cause lesion , we perform genome - wide linkage analysis use strain - specific single nucleotide polymorphism ( snp ) at 120 locus across the mouse genome .
analysis of these data show a single genomic region with significant linkage to disease , provide a two - point lod score of 5.13 at marker 20.mmhap85flg2 on chromosome 6qe1 .
the link haplotype suggest the mutation have occur on the 129x1 / svj background ( figure s1 ) .
literature search reveal that among disease line map to 6qe1 , the spontaneous mutant opt mouse display a strikingly similar presentation to that describe here [ 1 ] .
the underlie genetic lesion cause the opt phenotype be a homozygous in - frame deletion of exon 43 and 44 of the gene itpr1 ( itpr1opt / opt ) , encode inositol 1 , 4 , 5 - triphosphate receptor 1 ( itpr1 ) .
sequencing of all exon and intron – exon boundary of itpr1 in affect mouse from the current study reveal a single mutation within itpr1 : a novel in - frame deletion of 18 bp within exon 36 ( itpr1δ18 / δ18 ) .
to confirm the pathogenicity of this mutation we cross heterozygous mouse from the current study ( itpr1wt / δ18 ) with mouse heterozygous for the opt mutation ( itpr1wt / opt ) .
this result in two litter of mouse with a total of four affect itpr1opt / δ18 pup ( from a total of 15 ) with a phenotype indistinguishable from that of the itpr1δ18 / δ18 and itpr1opt / opt mouse [ 1 ] .
furthermore , this phenotype be similar , although less severe , to that describe in a mouse line with target deletion of itpr1 , where ataxia be describe a a prominent feature [ 4 ] .
a with the itpr1opt / opt mouse , where the deletion of exon 43 and 44 be also predict to leave the translational reading frame unaffected , the in - frame itpr1δ18 / δ18 deletion mutation result in markedly decrease level of itpr1 in cerebellar purkinje cell .
in these two spontaneous mutant [ 1 ] and in the itpr1 - deficient mouse [ 4 ] generate by gene targeting , decrease itpr1 expression be associate with the same autosomal recessive movement disorder ( figure 1 ) .
give our interest in human neurological disease we seek to identify any cognate human disorder where linkage have be establish to the syntenic region of the human genome , but where no causal mutation have be identify .
sca15 , an adult - onset autosomal dominant progressive ataxia be link to this locus [ 5 ] .
although missense mutation of itpr1 have previously be rule out [ 2 ] and the mode of inheritance be inconsistent with that see in the itpr1δ18 and itpr1opt mouse , the phenotypic presence of ataxia in the mouse lead u to reexamine this candidate gene a a possible cause of sca15 .
we obtain genomic dna from three affect family member and one family member with unknown disease status from the kindred originally use to define and map sca15 ( family aus1 , of australian anglo - celtic origin ) [ 2 ] .
we perform two experiment concurrently in three affect member of this family : sequence analysis of the cod exon of itpr1 and high - density genome - wide snp genotyping .
sequence analysis fail to show any coding alteration segregate with disease or any alteration that be inconsistent with mendelian pattern of inheritance within the family .
however , visualization of log r ratio and b allele frequency metric from the genome - wide snp genotyping experiment clearly show data consistent with a heterozygous genomic deletion across the first one - third of itpr1 and across the first half of a neighboring gene , sumf1 ( figure 2 ) .
this deletion be apparent in all three affect family member study and absent from the family member with unknown affection status ( figure 3 ) .
the snp data show a deletion of between 188 kb and 210 kb in size ; examination of snp at the flank unknown region of this deletion allow u to delimit the border of the deletion to 7.5 kb on the telomeric side of the deletion ( between rs12634249 and rs793396 ) and ~ 14.4 kb on the centromeric side of the deletion ( between rs4073665 and rs17709863 ) .
in an attempt to define whether this variation be a benign polymorphism we analyze genome - wide snp data at this locus , produce use the same genotyping chip , from 577 individual of european descent who be either control or individual with an unrelated neurological disorder .
we fail to find any deletion affect the coding sequence of either gene , itpr1 or sumf1 ; we do , however , identify a single individual with a possible heterozygous deletion approximately 6 kb in size within intron 40 – 41 of itpr1 , at least 5 kb away from exon 40 .
give the location of this alteration it be unlikely to effect the expression or splicing of itpr1 .
in an attempt to fine - map the breakpoints of the disease - cause deletion we perform a series of experiment design to refine the unknown interval at the edge between definite delete and definite diploid sequence .
these data narrow the unknown border to ~ 4 kb on the telomeric side and ~ 7 kb on the centromeric side .
we use all possible combination of forward orientation primer design within the newly define telomeric boundary and of reverse orientation primer design within the newly define centromeric boundary in pcr assay in an attempt to amplify across the deletion in affect family member .
use pcr primer t3f and c11r , which should be more than 200 kb apart , we be able to amplify a fragment 953 bp in size use dna from each of the three affect family member a template .
sequencing of this fragment reveal a deletion of 201,509 bp ( figure s3 ) , remove the first three of the nine exon of sumf1 and the first ten of the 58 exon of itpr1 .
we be unable to amplify the deletion - specific fragment in the family member of unknown affection status , or in 275 neurologically normal control .
to far establish genetic deletion at itpr1 a the cause of sca15 we analyze two additional family with an inherit cerebellar ataxia similar to that describe in the aus1 family , ascertain through neurology clinic in london , united kingdom .
dna extract from probands from these two family ( family h33 and family h27 ) be also analyze use illumina infinium humanhap550 genotyping chip .
these experiment show deletion at the sca15 locus in all affect member assay , from sumf1 through itpr1 .
these mutation segregate with disease in these two family ( figure s3 ) .
a strategy similar to the one outline above enable u to sequence over the breakpoint in family h27 but not family h33 .
in the former , the deletion span 344,408 bp , remove exon 1 – 3 of sumf1 and 1 – 44 of itpr1 ; in the latter , we estimate that the deletion be 310 kb in length and that it remove exon 1 – 3 of sumf1 and exon 1 – 40 of itpr1 .
the site of mutation be of interest , particularly the fact that in each of the three family the telomeric end of the deletion be anchor between exon 3 and 4 of sumf1 ; sequence search fail to identify any repeat sequence that might explain this phenomenon .
with three cerebellar ataxia family segregate a sumf1 – itpr1 deletion , and this deletion not observe in a control population , we may reasonably conclude that the association be causal , and that the deletion be indeed the genetic basis of the disease , with sca15 the diagnosis in the two british family as well a the original australian family .
it be improbable that heterozygosity for the deletion of sumf1 , encode sulfatase modify factor 1 , of itself cause or contribute to sca15 .
homozygous mutation of sumf1 result in autosomal recessive multiple sulfatase deficiency , a metabolic disorder characterize by hepatosplenomegaly , deafness , and developmental delay [ 6 , 7 ] .
no co-occurrence of ataxia have be describe in ( heterozygous ) parent of patient with multiple sulfatase deficiency .
conversely , mutation of itpr1 be biologically plausible a a cause of ataxia : the protein be highly express in purkinje cell ; a we have show here , mouse with mutation at this locus present with ataxia ; and perturb ca2+ signaling have previously be implicate in the etiology of ataxia , notably in episodic ataxia type 2 and sca6 [ 8 ] .
in further support of this conclusion , analysis of protein level of itpr1 in epstein - barr virus ( ebv ) immortalize lymphocyte from affect and unaffected aus1 family member reveal that all affect member show a dramatic decrease in itpr1 level when compare with the family member without the deletion ( figure 4 ) .
itpr1 contain three domain , an n - terminal inositol triphosphate binding domain , a couple domain , and a c - terminal transmembrane domain ; it also contain two protein kinase a phosphorylation site and an atp - bind site .
itpr1 be couple to ca2+ channel and facilitate ca2+ release from the endoplasmic reticulum after binding by the intracellular second messenger inositol 1 , 4 , 5 - triphosphate [ 9 ] .
itpr1 be enrich in the purkinje cell of the cerebellum [ 4 ] .
itpr1 mutation have more than one potential pathogenic mechanism .
first , the disease may be a result of haploinsufficiency at itpr1 ; this concept be consistent with the observation that heterozygous deletion lead to a late onset disorder in human , whereas homozygous deletion in mouse lead to an early onset disorder , able to be express within the much short life span of the mouse .
second , we can not rule out the existence of an alternate start site for itpr1 that may result in a product that confer a pathogenic gain of function to the protein ; however , western blot analysis of cell derive from affect aus1 family member , which be perform use an antibody raise against the c - terminal portion of itpr1 , fail to identify any disease - specific truncate protein product .
clearly , the identification of distinct itpr1 mutation underlie sca15 will help elucidate the pathogenic mechanism of this disorder .
we show here the utility of investigate spontaneous mouse mutation in understand human disease .
currently , the small number of age itpr1wt / δ18 animal preclude u from examine these mouse for subtle sign and symptom similar to those see in sca15 patient ; however , these mouse be clearly of interest to u a a potential model of sca15 .
these data also demonstrate that genome - wide snp assay can facilitate rapid detection of structural genomic mutation that may underlie disease .
the data provide by these approach provide compelling evidence that heterozygous deletion of itpr1 cause sca15 .
clearly , sequence analysis of itpr1 in potential sca15 case may provide additional insight into the disease , particularly if a stop mutation be to be identify ; however , the mutational mechanism note here mean that standard sequencing approach alone be insufficient to confidently rule out itpr1 mutation a a cause of disease : a comprehensive gene dosage approach be also require .
give that sca16 and autosomal dominant congenital nonprogressive ataxia have both recently be map to region overlap with the sca15 locus [ 10 , 11 ] , itpr1 be a gene of importance for screening in these family .
these data add weight to a role for aberrant intracellular ca2+ signaling in purkinje cell in the pathogenesis of spinocerebellar ataxia .
material and method
genome - wide linkage in mouse .
one hundred and twenty dna fragment be amplify across the genome , each select to contain one or more strain - specific snp that would differentiate between c57bl / 6j and 129x1 / svj inbred strain [ 12 ] .
each fragment be initially amplify in 11 affect mouse and nine unaffected mouse ; genotype calling be perform by dye - terminator sequencing of these fragment .
linkage analysis use these data be perform use mlink [ 13 ] , which reveal a positive linkage at chromosome 6qe1 , on the 129x1 / svj background ( two - point lod score 5.13 at marker 20.mmhap85flg2 ) .
in an attempt to narrow the disease interval we perform backcross experiment that result in the generation of three additional affect mouse .
genotyping of all affect mouse across the disease - segregate interval reveal flank recombinant and a candidate region of ~ 5 mb , between marker d6mit37 and 44.mmhap85flg5 ( figure s1 ) .
this region contain 16 gene and predict transcript .
identification of the underlie genetic lesion in mouse .
identification of similar phenotype in mouse link to the 6qe1 interval be perform by literature search .
this reveal the itpr1opt / opt mouse , in which disease be cause by homozygous deletion mutation of exon 43 and 44 of itpr1 .
primer pair be design to sequence each of the coding exon and at least 50 bp of each flank intronic sequence of itpr1 .
pcr amplification of each exon be perform use dna from two affect mouse a template .
the itpr1δ18 / δ18 mutation be confirm by sequencing in all affect mouse ( figure s2 ) .
breed experiment be perform between two female mouse heterozygous for the current mutation ( itpr1wt / δ18 ) and a male mouse heterozygous for the itpr1opt mutation ( itpr1wt / opt ) .
this result in two litter of mouse with a total of four affect itpr1opt / δ18 pup ( from a total of 15 ; two of seven from first mating ; two of eight from the second mating ) with a phenotype indistinguishable from that of the itpr1δ18 / δ18 and itpr1opt / opt mouse .
analysis of itpr1 protein in mouse .
we perform western blot analysis use standard technique with ecl detection kit ( amersham , http://www.amersham.com ) .
briefly , dissect whole brain from postnatal day 21 littermates be homogenize in a buffer contain 50 mm tris - hcl , 150 mm nacl , 1 mm edta , 1 % triton x - 100 , 1 % sodium deoxycholate , 0.1 % sd , and a cocktail of protease inhibitor ( roche , http://www.roche.com ) .
homogenate be dilute appropriately , mix with 4 × reduce sample buffer , and load onto 4 % – 12 % precast gradient gel ( novex , http://www.invitrogen.com ) for sd - page and immunoblotting .
the antibody to itpr1 ( 1 : 2,000 ) and actb ( 1 : 5,000 ) be use a recommend by manufacturer .
immunohistochemistry .
brain be isolate from 21 - d - old mouse , perfuse with 4 % paraformaldehyde in pb , and post-fixed overnight in the same fixative .
brain be embed in gelatin , and 35 - μm sagittal section be cut use a slide microtome ( neuroscience associate , http://www.neuroscienceassociates.com ) .
section from wild - type , heterozygote , and homozygous brain be place in the multibrain template .
section be wash in 1 × pb prior to 1 h of incubation in block solution contain 1 × pb with 20 % normal goat serum and 0.3 % triton x - 100 ( ph 7.4 ) .
section be incubate overnight at 4 °c in primary antibody : affinity purify polyclonal itpr1 antibody ( 1 : 2,000 , chemicon international , http://www.chemicon.com ) and monoclonal anti-calb1 antibody ( 1 : 6,000 , sigma - aldrich , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) dilute in carrier solution .
follow extensive wash ( in 6.0 ml of pb , three time ) , section be incubate with appropriate secondary antibody ( alexa fluor 555 goat anti-rabbit igg and alexa fluor 488 goat anti-mouse igg [ invitrogen , http://www.invitrogen.com ] ) for 1 h at room temperature .
section be wash and mount on glass slide in a buffer medium contain mowiol ( calbiochem , http://www.emdbiosciences.com ) a describe earlier [ 14 ] .
section be image use a laser scan confocal microscope ( lsm 510 ; zeiss , http://www.zeiss.com ) .
imaging parameter ( pinhole , detector gain , laser power ) be optimize , and be keep constant for the wild - type , heterozygous , and homozygous mutant brain .
specificity of the itpr1 antibody be verify by preabsorption control experiment .
antibody dilution be incubate for 24 h at 4 °c with the immunize peptide .
tissue section be incubate with the preabsorbed antibody and process a describe above .
under these condition , no staining above autofluorescence be detect .
analysis of itpr1 in sca15 patient .
dna be extract from ebv immortalize lymphocyte , derive from family member .
the cod exon and at least 50 bp of flank intron of itpr1 be pcr amplify and sequence use dye - terminator sequencing ( bigdye version 3.1 ; applied biosystems , http://www.appliedbiosystems.com ) .
sequence reaction be run on an abi3730xp automate sequencer a per the manufacturer 's instruction ( applied biosystems ) .
this analysis be perform in all three affect family member for whom genomic dna be available ( member 6 , 7 , and 19 ) .
primer sequence and condition be available upon request .
sequence data be analyze use sequencher ( gene code corporation , http://www.genecodes.com ) .
genome - wide snp genotyping be perform use infinium humanhap550 snp genotyping chip a per the manufacturer 's protocol ( illumina , http://www.illumina.com ) .
this product assay 555,352 unique snp .
data be collect use the illumina beadstation scanner and data collection software .
genotype be produce use the genotyping module of beadstudio ( version 2.3.25 ; illumina ) , and log r ratio and b allele frequency be visualize use the genome viewer tool within this package .
in order to rule out the possibility that the observe deletion within itpr1 be a benign copy number variant we examine log r ratio and b allele frequency metric of humanhap550 genotyping data at this locus from 577 individual of northern european descent from north america and europe , produce by u a a part of an ongoing study .
in an attempt to narrow the unknown interval flank the deletion observe in family aus1 , we design primer for 30 pcr amplification that would generate overlap fragment across the two bordering region ( primer sequence and condition available upon request ) .
there be ten primer pair in the telomeric flanking region and 20 pair in the centromeric flanking region ( figure s3 ) .
on average each product be ~ 750 bp in size , and amplification be perform use genomic dna from each of the three affect individual ( family member 6 , 7 , and 19 ) .
dye - terminator sequencing of each product be perform use the forward and reverse primer design for amplification ; run and analysis of each fragment be perform a describe above .
amplification of a fragment from a normal diploid genome be denote by the presence of a heterozygous polymorphism ; amplification of a fragment from a region of the genome harbor a heterozygous genomic deletion be infer when homozygosity for the major allele and the minor allele be note among the three affect family member ( i.e. , this be inconsistent with mendelian inheritance in related individual know to share a common haplotype ) .
use the data from the experiment describe above we be able to limit the size of unknown region flank the deletion to ~ 4 kb on the telomeric side and 7 kb on the centromeric side .
all combination of forward primer from the newly define region flank the deletion on the telomeric side with reverse primer from the newly define region flank the deletion on the centromeric side be use in pcr amplification reaction perform with dna from the three affect family member and single unaffected family member .
this experiment be perform in an attempt to amplify across the delete fragment and define the exact breakpoint .
a single fragment be obtain from the third forward primer from the telomeric side ( t3f 5 ′ - tgaatgctcaattttccagc - 3 ′ ) with the 11th reverse primer from the centromeric side ( c11r 5 ′ - gggaaaatggatagagggtg - 3 ′ ) .
the fragment , which be 953 bp in size , be sequence a describe above and compare to the current build of the human genome .
a similar series of experiment be perform to identify the deletion breakpoints in family h27 and h33 ; we be able to amplify a 369 - bp pcr product across the breakpoint find in affect member of family h27 use primer pair h27 - 11f 5 ′ - gacctcaagaaggcatgaatac - 3 ′ and h27 - 3r 5 ′ - atggtggccaggtacacaag - 3 ′ ( figure s4 ) , but to date we have be unable to identify the breakpoint in family h33 .
western blot analysis in sca15 patient .
ebv immortalize lymphoblast from three affect family member who carry the deletion and one family member without the mutation be use a a readily accessible source of protein ; all sample come from member of family aus1 .
protein extraction be perform use lysis buffer contain 1 × tb , 1 % triton x - 100 , and a cocktail of protease inhibitor ( roche ) with overnight lysis at − 80 °c .
homogenate be dilute appropriately , mix with 4 × reduce sample buffer , and load onto 4 % – 12 % precast gradient gel ( nupage , invitrogen ) for sd - page and immunoblotting .
the antibody to itpr1 ( 1 : 1,000 ) and actb ( 1 : 5,000 ) be use a recommend by manufacturer .
supporting information
figure s1
schematic of genotyping result across mouse chromosome 6 in affect mouse
black square be indicative of a c57bl / 6j homozygous genotype ; light grey square , a 129x1 / svj homozygous genotype ; grey square , a c57bl / 6j 129x1 / svj heterozygous genotype ; white square , undetermined genotype .
the black box bound a region of homozygous 129x1 / svj genotype that segregate with disease ; thus , the critical region be determine to be between marker d6mit37 and 44.mmhap85flg5 .
( 10 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
sequence of exon 36 of itpr1 from four mouse
a wild - type homozygous c57bl / 6j mouse ( a ) , a wild - type homozygous 129x1 / svj mouse ( b ) , an affect 129x1b6 mouse homozygous for the 18 - bp deletion mutation ( c ) , and an unaffected mouse heterozygous for the 18 - bp deletion mutation ( d ) .
the delete nucleotide be bound by a green box .
( 5.1 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
additional family harbor deletion at the sca15 locus
( a ) family h33 ; ( b ) family h27 .
upper panel show log r ratio and b allele frequency metric generate from infinium humanhap550 array for an affect family member from each family .
log r ratio be the ratio of normalize , observe r to expected r for each snp ( each snp be a blue dot ) and thus serve a a surrogate of copy number at each locus .
b allele frequency be a measure of the number of time the a or b allele be detect at each locus ( each snp be denote by a blue dot ) .
thus , snp with a b allele frequency of one be apparent b / b homozygote , snp with a b allele frequency of 0.5 be apparent a / b heterozygote , and those with a b allele frequency of zero be apparent a / a homozygote .
these plot show a contiguous region ~ 310 kb long ( family h33 ) and ~ 350 kb long ( family h27 ) with decrease copy number and apparent homozygosity indicative of a genomic deletion ( shade grey ) .
the pedigree below show the available family member assay for these deletion , all of whom be affect and all of whom carry a deletion at this locus .
( 6.8 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
delete region identify in family aus1 and h27
( top ) family aus1 ; sequence from the pcr product generate use primer t3f and c11r from genomic dna from an affect family member .
red arrowhead denote the deletion breakpoint ; the deletion be 201,510 bp in length .
( bottom ) family h27 ; sequence flank delete region .
green font indicate nucleotide telomeric to the deletion ; blue font indicate nucleotide centromeric to the deletion .
the deletion be 344,408 bp in length .
basepair position be base on ncbi genome build 36 reference assembly .
( 876 kb mb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the omim ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=omim ) accession number for sumf1 be 607939 .
acknowledgement
we thank the sca15 family member for participate in this study .
abbreviation
ebv - epstein - barr virus
sca [ number ] - spinocerebellar ataxia [ number ]
snp - single nucleotide polymorphism
figure and table
figure 1
immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis of itpr1 protein level in mouse cerebellum
( a – f ) immunohistochemistry of cerebellum from a wild - type mouse ( a and d ) , a mouse heterozygous for the itpr1 18 - bp deletion ( b and e ) , and a mouse homozygous for the 18 - bp itpr1 deletion ( c and f ) .
( a – c ) immunohistochemistry use polyclonal itpr1 anti-rabbit antibody ( 1 : 2,000 ; alexa fluor 555 ) ; ( d – f ) immunohistochemistry use monoclonal calb1 anti-mouse antibody ( 1 : 6,000 ; alexa fluor 488 ) .
scale bar denote 100 μm .
a previously describe , iptr1 be highly express in the purkinje cell .
notably , there appear to be decrease immunoreactivity to itpr1 in the heterozygous and homozygous mutant mouse .
( g ) western blot perform to examine itpr1 level in whole brain from wild - type , itpr1wt / δ18 , and itpr1δ18 / δ18 mouse ; this clearly show a reduction of itpr1 in brain tissue from itpr1wt / δ18 mouse and a great reduction of itpr1 in itpr1δ18 / δ18 mouse .
figure 2
metric derive from analysis of dna from affect family member 7 use illumina infinium humanhap550 genotyping chip
the upper and low plot be log r ratio and b allele frequency , respectively , at an ~ 800 - kb segment on the p arm of chromosome 3 .
log r ratio be the ratio of normalize , observe r to expect r for each snp ( each snp be a blue dot ) and thus serve a a surrogate of copy number at each locus .
b allele frequency be a measure of the number of time the a or b allele be detect at each locus ( each snp be denote by a blue dot ) .
thus , snp with a b allele frequency of one be apparent b / b homozygote , snp with a b allele frequency of 0.5 be apparent a / b heterozygote , and those with a b allele frequency of zero be apparent a / a homozygote .
clearly , these plot show a contiguous region ~ 200 kb long with decrease copy number and apparent homozygosity ( bound by a red box ) .
a we have demonstrate previously , this be indicative of a heterozygous genomic deletion [ 15 ] .
below these plot be a schematic of the two know gene affect by this deletion , itpr1 and sumf1 .
figure 3
mutation analysis in the australian sca15 family
( top ) pedigree of kindred .
fill symbol denote affect individual ; open symbol , unaffected individual ; grey symbol denote unknown disease status ; bull - eye symbol denote obligate carrier .
w / w , wild - type at itpr1 ; w / m , heterozygous carrier of the itpr1 deletion .
( middle ) schematic of primer pair use to narrow the unknown region between know delete sequence and know diploid sequence at the sca15 locus .
nine primer pair ( t1 – t9 ) be use to amplify across the unknown region telomeric to the know delete region ; 19 primer pair ( c1 – c19 ) be use to amplify across the unknown region centromeric to the know delete region .
all pcrs be carry out in the three affect family member .
analysis of these data narrow the unknown region , and ultimately we be able to use primer t3f and c11r to amplify across the deletion breakpoint in the three affect family member , produce a fragment of 953 bp in affect individual .
( bottom ) gel show amplification product use primer pair t3f and c11r from affect pedigree member 6 , 7 , and 19 ; in pedigree member 23 , with unknown disease affection status ; in a neurologically normal control ( c ) ; and in a no template control ( nc ) .
figure 4
western blot analysis of itpr1 protein level in ebv immortalize lymphoblast from aus1 family member
western blot perform to examine itpr1 level in ebv immortalize lymphocyte from aus1 affect family member carry the itpr1 deletion and from an aus1 family member of unknown disease status who do not carry the deletion .
notably the sample from patient with itpr1 deletion show a dramatic decrease in itpr1 level .
to demonstrate equal loading , these sample be dilute one in five , and the western blot be repeat use an antibody against actb .
footnote
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on may 16 , 2007 ( doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.0030108.eor ) .
author contribution .
emcf , jtr , and ab conceive and design the experiment .
jvdl , jc , mak , lah , s , mrc , hcf , xl , dh , j , ir , and hc perform the experiment .
jvdl , jc , mak , s , mrc , kgh , hcf , j , jtr , and ab analyze the data .
hh , nww , pg , jh , e , rjmg , smf , hc , and ab contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
rjmg , emcf , and ab write the paper .
funding .
this research be fund in part by the intramural program of the national institute on aging and the national institute on neurological disorder and stroke ( ninds ) , both of the national institute of health , department of health and human service , united state of america .
mak be support by a ninds competitive postdoctoral fellowship .
hh be support by the medical research council , united kingdom .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
the zebrafish moonshine gene encode transcriptional intermediary factor 1γ , an essential regulator of hematopoiesis
abstract
hematopoiesis be precisely orchestrate by lineage - specific dna - bind protein that regulate transcription in concert with coactivators and corepressors .
mutation in the zebrafish moonshine ( mon ) gene specifically disrupt both embryonic and adult hematopoiesis , result in severe red blood cell aplasia .
we report that mon encode the zebrafish ortholog of mammalian transcriptional intermediary factor 1γ ( tif1γ ) ( or trim33 ) , a member of the tif1 family of coactivators and corepressors .
during development , hematopoietic progenitor cell in mon mutant fail to express normal level of hematopoietic transcription factor , include gata1 , and undergo apoptosis .
three different mon mutant allele each encode premature stop codon , and enforced expression of wild - type tif1γ mrna rescue embryonic hematopoiesis in homozygous mon mutant .
surprisingly , a high level of zygotic tif1γ mrna expression delineate ventral mesoderm during hematopoietic stem cell and progenitor formation prior to gata1 expression .
transplantation study reveal that tif1γ function in a cell - autonomous manner during the differentiation of erythroid precursor .
study in murine erythroid cell line demonstrate that tif1γ protein be localize within novel nuclear focus , and expression decrease during erythroid cell maturation .
our result establish a major role for this transcriptional intermediary factor in the differentiation of hematopoietic cell in vertebrate .
introduction
hematopoiesis involve the coordinate process of cell proliferation and differentiation of a relatively small number of progenitor cell into billion of circulate red and white blood cell ( thisse and zon 2002 ) .
hematopoiesis in vertebrate , from zebrafish to human , be an evolutionarily conserve program that produce two wave of stem or progenitor cell that differ both in their embryonic origin and in the lineage of differentiate blood cell produce ( pali and yoder 2001 ; orkin and zon 2002 ; galloway and zon 2003 ) .
the first , or primitive , wave of hematopoiesis originate from ventral mesoderm and give rise to progenitor cell that differentiate in embryonic blood island .
the primitive wave of hematopoiesis produce a burst of embryonic erythrocyte and macrophage .
the second , or definitive , wave of hematopoiesis arise from self - renew stem cell that develop primarily in the intraembryonic aorta – gonad – mesonephros region .
these definitive hematopoietic stem cell seed the later develop marrow space , to produce all lineage of adult blood cell , include definitive erythrocyte , myeloid cell , and lymphocyte .
we have undertake a genetic approach to characterize gene that control hematopoiesis use the zebrafish a a model system ( thisse and zon 2002 ) .
a part of a large - scale forward genetic screen , we previously identify bloodless zebrafish mutant that fail to express the erythroid transcription factor gata1 normally in embryonic hematopoietic precursor ( ransom et al. 1996 ) .
we name one of these zebrafish gene moonshine ( mon ) , and another group name a noncomplementing allele vampire ( weinstein et al. 1996 ) .
here , we have determine that mutation in the mon gene cause a disruption in both primitive embryonic and definitive adult hematopoiesis , result in a severe loss of erythroid cell .
erythroid progenitor cell in mon mutant be initially present , but fail to express normal level of hematopoietic transcription factor and undergo apoptosis .
positional cloning identify the mon gene a the zebrafish ortholog of mammalian transcriptional intermediary factor 1γ ( tif1γ ) , a member of the tif1 family of transcriptional coactivators and corepressors ( le douarin et al. 1995 ; friedman et al. 1996 ; kim et al. 1996 ; venturini et al. 1999 ; peng et al. 2002 ) .
the three member of the vertebrate tif1 family ( α , β , and γ ) be large nuclear protein that each contain an n - terminal rbcc or trim domain ( reymond et al. 2001 ) compose of a ring finger , two b - box , and a coiled - coil domain .
tif1 family member also contain a c - terminal plant homeodomain finger and bromodomain that be characteristic of chromatin remodel factor .
tif1α have be show to associate with a variety of ligand - bind nuclear hormone receptor ( le douarin et al. 1995 ) and function a a coactivator for retinoic acid receptor ( zhong et al. 1999 ) .
tif1β have be show to act a a corepressor for the large family of krüppel - associate box ( krab ) domain zinc - finger transcription factor ( friedman et al. 1996 ; abrink et al. 2001 ) .
in contrast , tif1γ do not associate directly with either nuclear receptor or krab domain that bind to the other tif1 family member ( venturini et al. 1999 ; abrink et al. 2001 ) .
biochemical study also demonstrate that tif1γ form both homo-oligomers and hetero-oligomers with tif1α but not with tif1β ( peng et al. 2002 ) .
the murine tif1α and tif1γ gene have not yet be subject to gene target experiment , whereas analysis of mouse mutant demonstrate that tif1β be require for postimplantation embryogenesis and mesoderm induction in particular ( cammas et al. 2000 ) .
take together , these study suggest that a major function of tif1 family member be to link dna - bind protein with other coactivators or corepressors during development .
our study establish that tif1γ function a an essential regulator of embryonic and adult hematopoiesis in vertebrate .
cell transplantation study demonstrate that tif1γ act in a cell - autonomous manner during embryonic hematopoiesis .
the tif1γ gene be express specifically in ventral mesoderm and hematopoietic progenitor , then downregulated a erythroid maturation occur .
tif1γ protein localize to a novel class of nuclear body in both primary mouse embryo fibroblast and erythroleukemia cell line .
take together , our study demonstrate that tif1γ be require for normal erythroid cell development and survival .
result
the zebrafish mon gene be essential for both primitive and definitive erythropoiesis
in order to determine when the mon gene be require in development , we first examine hematopoietic gene expression and apoptosis in zebrafish homozygous mon mutant embryo .
during embryogenesis , homozygous zebrafish mon mutant have no red blood cell ( rbc ) visible in circulation ( ransom et al. 1996 ; weinstein et al. 1996 ) .
the mon mutant initiate expression of gata1 in hematopoietic cell around the five - somite stage , similar to wild - type embryo ( data not show ) ; however , base on tunel staining , the differentiate erythroid cell undergo programmed cell death from the 12 - somite stage to 22 h postfertilization ( hpf ) ( figure 1a and 1b , arrow ) .
at 12 somite , gata1 expression be only slightly reduced .
by 18 – 22 hpf , hematopoietic - specific marker such a gata1 , scl , gata2 , and ikaros be not detect in the embryonic blood island ( figure 1a and 1b ; unpublished data ) .
the hematopoietic cell be thus correctly specify early during the development of mon mutant embryo , but these precursor undergo cell death .
base on expression of c - myb and rag1 ( figure 1b , arrow ) , mon mutant have normal myeloid and lymphoid development , respectively .
in addition to the deficit of rbc in mon mutant , there be a prominent loss of fin - fold and tail mesenchyme ( ransom et al. 1996 ) .
tunel staining of mon mutant demonstrate extensive apoptosis of mesenchymal cell in the trunk and tail bud region ( figure 1a and 1b , arrow ) .
the mon gene be thus require for normal development and survival of both commit erythroid progenitor cell and posterior mesenchymal cell .
we next examine definitive hematopoiesis in rare survive homozygous adult zebrafish mon mutant .
mutation in mon be generally lethal by 10 to 14 d of development ( ransom et al. 1996 ) , although rare mon homozygous mutant ( approximately 1 in 500 bloodless embryo ) of all test allele survive to adulthood .
adult mon mutant show cardiac hypertrophy , presumably due to the severe anemia lead to a high output state ( figure 2 ) .
in wild - type zebrafish , the adult site of hematopoiesis be the kidney ( al adhami and kunz 1977 ) , which contain erythroid , lymphoid , and myeloid population at various stage of differentiation ( bennett et al. 2001 ) .
in mon homozygous mutant , there be a severe block in maturation at the proerythroblast stage ( figure 2 ) , whereas the differentiation of myeloid cell be normal ( unpublished data ) .
this demonstrate that the mon gene product act during both primitive and definitive erythropoiesis .
positional cloning identify mon a the zebrafish ortholog of mammalian tif1γ
we identify the mon gene by positional cloning use a panel of 2,200 diploid mutant collect from tübingen background ( tu ) / wik strain hybrid parent carry the montg234 allele .
the mon mutant gene be position on chromosome 8 between microsatellite marker z987 and z11001 ( figure 3a ) ( knapik et al. 1998 ) .
for positional cloning purpose , over 12,000 polymorphic marker be screen use amplify fragment length polymorphism ( aflp ) ( ransom and zon 1999 ) , and 36 marker within the interval be isolate .
one of these , ma3 , be find to be 0.3 cm from the gene ( figure 3a ) and be utilize a the start point of a chromosomal walk .
a critical p1 bacterial artificial chromosome clone ( pac ) , 107n19 , be obtain that span the genetic interval .
two simple sequence conformation polymorphism ( sscp ) marker find on this pac clone flank the critical genetic interval .
the marker 80m12 - t7 map two recombinant out of 4,400 meiosis telomeric of the mutation , and the marker 157j23 - t7 map one recombinant centromic of the mutation ( figure 3a ) .
the end sequence and sscp marker of pac 107n19 be find in the zebrafish genomic sequence contig ctg23107 ( http://www.ensembl.org/danio_rerio/ ) contain a predict zebrafish tif1 family gene .
this pac be hybridize to a kidney cdna library , result in the isolation of four clone that represent the same gene .
the mon gene encode a member of the tif1 family of transcriptional cofactor ( figure 3b and 3c ) .
the cod sequence of mon be most similar to human tifγ ( le douarin et al. 1995 ; friedman et al. 1996 ; venturini et al. 1999 ) , and the location of exon boundary be conserve between the zebrafish and human gene ( unpublished data ) .
the mon locus on zebrafish chromosome 8 be also predict to be syntenic to the region of human chromosome 1p that contain the tif1γ gene base on the conserve location of 12 other orthologous gene pair , include nra , map to these region in human and zebrafish ( barbazuk et al. 2000 ) .
therefore , base on sequence similarity and chromosomal location , the zebrafish mon gene be the likely ortholog of the human tif1γ gene .
we have identify ethyl - nitrosourea ( enu ) - induce point mutation in three allele of mon ( figure 3c and 3d ) , each of which generate a premature stop codon .
the montb222b and montg234 allele have a severe phenotype with no circulate blood cell .
in contrast , the monm262 allele have 10 – 100 circulate blood cell by 48 hpf , in comparison to the approximately 3,000 rbc in the circulation of wild - type or heterozygous embryo at the same time point .
the monm262 allele be find to encode a premature stop codon at position e40 , which would encode a putative protein of only 40 amino acid .
although this mutation would be expect to lead to a complete loss of mon gene product , another methionine be find downstream at amino acid position 104 .
in vitro translation experiment in reticulocyte lysates demonstrate reinitiation of translation from this methionine ( unpublished data ) .
therefore , the hypomorphic larval phenotype of the monm262 allele be likely due to partial loss of mon function or expression .
the presence of mutation in each of the mon allele indicate that defective tif1γ function be the cause of the mon phenotype .
in order to determine whether tif1γ be express in hematopoietic mesoderm , we next examine zebrafish embryo by whole - mount in situ hybridization ( figure 4a ) .
tif1γ mrna be express maternally and be find throughout the embryo during blastula stage .
during gastrulation and epiboly stage , zygotic expression of mon be high in the mesendoderm of the germ ring .
at tail bud and early somite stage a high level of tif1γ expression delineate a horseshoe - shape population of ventral / lateral mesoderm that will give rise to blood and also express stem cell leukemiahematopoietic transcription factor ( scl ) ( liao et al. 1997 ) .
this group of cell continue to express tif1γ and scl while it converge and form the embryonic blood island ( detrich et al. 1995 ) .
the tif1γ gene be also highly express in the central nervous system as well a the mesenchyme of the trunk and tail .
homozygous montg234 mutant have a greatly reduce amount of tif1γ mrna in all tissue consistent with nonsense - mediate message decay .
thus , zebrafish tif1γ be specifically express in ventral mesoderm and putative hemangioblasts prior to and during the embryonic stage when hematopoietic progenitor be undergo apoptosis in mon mutant .
we also compare the expression of zebrafish mon to mouse tif1γ ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
mouse tif1γ be highly express in erythroid blood island of the yolk sac , and it be subsequently express in the fetal liver at a high level , and in other tissue , include the central nervous system .
take together these result strongly suggest that zebrafish mon and mouse tif1γ be orthologs that function during hematopoiesis .
give that mammalian tif1γ have be show to form hetero-oligomers with tif1α ( peng et al. 2002 ) , we search for additional tif1 family member in zebrafish to compare with tif1γ .
use zebrafish express sequence tag ( est ) sequence , we design primer to rt - pcr amplify a tif1 - relate cdna from embryonic 10 - hpf and 24 - hpf rna .
this cdna encode a predicted zebrafish ortholog of human tif1α base on predicted amino acid sequence ( see figure 3b ) .
in addition , zebrafish tif1α est map to lg4 in a region predict to be syntenic to the region of human chromosome 7 that contain the tif1α gene base on the conserved location of eight other orthologous gene pair , include sema3a , map to these region in human and zebrafish ( barbazuk et al. 2000 ) .
we next compare the embryonic expression pattern of tif1α mrna to tif1γ by in situ hybridization .
like mammalian tif1α ( le douarin et al. 1995 ; niederreither et al. 1999 ) , the predicted zebrafish tif1γ gene be broadly express ( see figure 4a ) .
at five somite , zebrafish tif1α do not display the relatively high expression in the horseshoe - shape region of hematopoietic mesoderm see with tif1γ .
at late stage , tif1α be evenly express throughout most of the embryo , include the develop blood island .
therefore , tif1α be coexpressed in the same cell with tif1γ and may therefore be available to form hetero-oligomers in vivo .
force expression of tif1γ rescue hematopoiesis in mon mutant
to far confirm that a mutation in the zebrafish tif1γ gene be responsible for the mon mutant phenotype we perform embryo rescue experiment ( figure 5a ; table 1 ) .
microinjection of synthetic wild - type mon mrna at the one - cell stage rescue the formation of embryonic erythrocyte in genotyped mutant embryo without cause obvious defect in embryonic patterning or organogenesis .
at 4 d of development , 70 % ( n = 10 ) of montg234 mutant show significant ( great than 200 cell in comparison to a wild - type estimate of 3,000 cell ) rescue of circulate hemoglobinized rbc in comparison to control sibling mutant ( n = 75 ) .
base on the correction of the jagged fin - fold phenotype ( ransom et al. 1996 ) , the mesenchymal cell be rescue to a similar extent a the anemia ( unpublished data ) .
overexpression of mon do not result in expanded blood cell number in wild - type embryo and be not toxic at dos that rescue the phenotype of mon mutant ( unpublished data ) .
since there be no expanded or ectopic blood population in the embryo , these rescue experiment suggest that mon function a a permissive factor require for hematopoiesis .
marrow transplantation rescue erythropoiesis in mon mutant
the high level of tif1γ expression in erythroid cell suggest that it function a a cell - autonomous regulator of gene expression in hematopoietic cell .
in order to test this hypothesis , we transplant wild - type adult zebrafish kidney marrow cell carry a gata1 : green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) transgene into 48 - hpf mon mutant embryo ( figure 5b ; table 2 ) .
the gata1 : gfp transgene make use of the gata1 promoter to drive gfp expression and can thus be use to mark donor - derive erythroid cell ( long et al. 1997 ) .
untransplanted mutant embryo have no embryonic blood cell in circulation .
follow transplantation , mutant host embryo be observe daily for 2 wk .
of 191 mutant embryo inject , 129 ( 68 % ) show gfp + cell in circulation 2 d later .
many recipient show robust increase in donor - derive cell over the observation period .
of 81 recipient initially score a have less than ten gfp + cell at day 2 posttransplant , 13 ( 16 % ) of these demonstrate a marked increase in erythroid cell with 100 – 1,000 gfp+ cell in circulation 6 d later .
by day 10 , these transplanted embryo show approximately 3,000 cell in circulation , similar to the number of blood cell in normal embryo .
despite robust reconstitution of blood cell , mutant recipient do not inflate their swim bladder and thus fail to survive longer than nontransplanted sibling control , all die by 3 wk of age .
in contrast , 13 / 35 ( 37 % ) heterozygous montg234 transplant survive to early adulthood .
similar transplant of wild - type cell can fully rescue vlad tepes ( gata1 ) mutant ( traver et al. 2003 ) .
therefore , the result of cell transplantation suggest that tif1γ play a cell - autonomous role in erythroid cell , and it role in nonhematopoietic tissue , such a trunk mesenchyme or the nervous system , be also require for embryo survival .
tif1γ in punctate nuclear focus be developmentally regulate
in order to examine the subcellular distribution of tif1γ protein , we generate an affinity - purify rabbit polyclonal antiserum direct against the c - terminal 15 amino acid conserve in human tif1γ and mouse tif1γ .
immunofluorescence of mouse embryo fibroblast nucleus with the anti-tif1γ antiserum demonstrate that tif1γ be localize in small nuclear focus ( figure 6a ) .
the localization of tif1γ protein appear different from the more diffuse nuclear pattern typically see in study of tif1α ( remboutsika et al. 2002 ) or tif1β ( cammas et al. 2002 ) .
a recent report demonstrate that tif1β associate with heterochromatin - contain focus after retinoic acid treatment or serum starvation ( cammas et al. 2002 ) .
thus , localization or expression of the tif1 protein may be regulate during distinct developmental process or by environmental cue .
the nuclear focus that contain tif1γ do not colocalize with two marker of heterochromatin , hp1α protein and dapi staining of dna ( figure 6a ) .
furthermore , tif1γ do not colocalize with promyelocytic leukemia gene product ( pml ) nuclear body , dna repair complex that contain mre11 , or transcriptional complex contain tfii - b ( unpublished data ) .
we next examine the expression of tif1γ protein during the differentiation of g1e cell , a murine erythroleukemia cell line that can terminally differentiate into erythrocyte when a gata1 : estrogen receptor fusion protein be stabilize in response to estrogen exposure ( wei et al. 1997 ) .
western blot analysis demonstrate that tif1γ protein expression decrease with terminal erythroid differentiation ( figure 6b ) .
consistent with this finding , after 24 hpf , zebrafish mon mrna expression fall during the terminal maturation of the primitive erythroid cell ( unpublished data ) .
in two different murine erythroleukemia cell line ( mel and g1e ) , tif1γ be also express in nuclear focus , and even though the overall tif1γ protein level be reduce , this nuclear focus localization do not change with differentiation ( unpublished data ) .
this provide further support for the hypothesis that tif1γ act within novel nuclear focus , during erythroid differentiation .
discussion
the zebrafish be an excellent model system to elucidate the molecular machinery control gene expression during hematopoiesis ( thisse and zon 2002 ; galloway and zon 2003 ) .
a part of a large - scale forward genetic screen , we originally identify a complementation group of independent mutant allele in the zebrafish gene that we name moonshine ( ransom et al. 1996 ) .
positional cloning be use to identify the mon gene , establish a critical role for a transcriptional intermediary factor , tif1γ , during hematopoietic development .
the mon gene encode the zebrafish ortholog of mammalian tif1γ
our result strongly support the conclusion that we have positionally clone the zebrafish mon gene correctly , and it be the ortholog of mammalian tif1γ .
tif1γ be present in the critical genetic interval encompass a single approximately 50 - kb pac clone define by linkage analysis ( see figure 3 ) .
sequence analysis indicate that zebrafish tif1γ be most similar in predict amino acid sequence and intron / exon structure compare to the predicted orthologous human and mouse gene .
zebrafish tif1γ be locate in a region of zebrafish chromosome 8 syntenic to the region of human chromosome 1 contain tif1γ .
we identify point mutation in tif1γ from three different allele of mon that each result in premature stop codon and mrna decay .
in addition , tif1γ / tif1γ be highly expressed in hematopoietic cell throughout embryogenesis in both zebrafish and mouse ( see figure 4 ) .
and a predict , forced expression of wild - type tif1γ mrna efficiently rescue hematopoiesis in mon mutant and do not perturb hematopoiesis in wild - type embryo ( see figure 5 ) .
we have also clone the predicted zebrafish ortholog of tif1α , which be more uniformly express in zebrafish embryo like mammalian tif1α ( le douarin et al. 1995 ; niederreither et al. 1999 ) ( see figure 3a and 4a ) and may therefore be available to form hetero-oligomers with tif1γ protein in develop hematopoietic cell .
compare available zebrafish and mammalian tif1 - predict amino acid sequence , it appear that the tif1γ orthologs be the most highly conserve family member while the tif1α sequence be relatively more divergent .
we have not find a tif1β ortholog , thus far , in the zebrafish or fugu genome or est sequence .
it be possible that tif1β , like the krab domain transcription factor it bind to , may be present only in tetrapod ( urrutia 2003 ) .
however , more complete genome sequence will be need to confirm this hypothesis .
base on our analysis of zebrafish mon mutant , it be reasonable to predict that tif1γ , the most evolutionarily conserve tif1 family member , play a similarly essential role in human and mouse hematopoiesis .
mutation in tif1γ cause apoptosis of erythroid progenitor
our examination of hematopoietic gene expression , apoptosis , and marrow histology in mon mutant demonstrate that early erythroid progenitor be form in homozygous mutant , but they fail to properly differentiate and instead undergo program cell death ( see figure 1 ) .
the expression of gata1 appear to initiate normally in the commit erythroid cell of mon mutant .
however , the cell be abnormal prior to the complete loss of gata1 expression .
tunel - positive apoptotic cell be abundant by the 12 - somite stage of development , and by 22 hpf all hematopoietic gene expression be extinguish .
the expression of marker gene , include scl and gata2 , characteristic of hematopoietic stem cell and primitive hematopoietic progenitor , be also not detect in the embryonic blood island of mutant at 22 hpf .
this indicate that the mutant hematopoietic cell be not block prior to commitment to the erythroid lineage , but instead develop a abnormal erythroid cell and undergo apoptosis , similar to gata1 - deficient erythroid cell ( fujiwara et al. 1996 ; lyon et al. 2002 ) .
defective erythropoiesis and severe anemia be also observe in rare survive homozygous mutant mon adult , demonstrate that tif1γ be also require in definitive hematopoiesis ( see figure 2 ) .
the zygotic phenotype of mon mutant may not reveal the function of maternally inherit tif1γ .
maternally express zebrafish tif1γ may play role in hematopoiesis or other aspect of organogenesis that be not detectable due to the presence of wild - type mrna in egg lay by heterozygous mother .
analysis of the offspring of homozygous mon mutant female zebrafish will aid in define the function of this maternal mrna .
the present analysis of zygotic mon mutant provide data that be consistent with the conclusion that tif1γ be essential for erythropoiesis but do not rule out essential function in other hematopoietic lineage .
the hematopoietic phenotype of mon mutant resemble the loss of erythroid cell see in both mouse gata1 knockout embryo and zebrafish vlad tepes ( gata1 ) mutant embryo ( fujiwara et al. 1996 ; lyon et al. 2002 ) .
in an effort to determine if there be a genetic relationship between mon and gata1 , we test their ability to rescue erythropoiesis .
both injection of gata1 mrna into mon homozygous mutant embryo and injection of tif1γ mrna into gata1 knock - down embryo fail to rescue hematopoiesis ( unpublished data ) .
we also test for a direct interaction between tif1γ and gata1 protein by coimmunoprecipitation and yeast two - hybrid assay and find no association ( unpublished data ) .
although the mutation in each of these gene arrest cell at a similar stage of development , our result suggest that gata1 and tif1γ act independently .
this do not rule out the possibility that parallel genetic pathway involve gata1 and tif1γ , operate together , regulate gene transcription within blood cell .
the role of tif1γ in primitive and definitive erythropoiesis
take together , our data suggest that tif1γ be require a a permissive cofactor for the erythroid lineage - specific control of hematopoietic gene expression .
we reasonably predict that tif1γ protein function a a transcriptional intermediary factor in hematopoietic progenitor cell give that both tif1α ( zhong et al. 1999 ) and tif1β ( friedman et al. 1996 ; abrink et al. 2001 ) have be show to act a intermediary factor that positively or negatively regulate gene transcription .
these study indicate that tif1α and tif1β act a scaffold that link different class of dna - bind protein and chromatin - associate protein into large regulatory complex .
tif1γ be detect within nuclear focus ( see figure 6 ) , which , base on our analysis , do not appear to correspond to several type of previously describe nuclear body , include pml body .
localization of tif1γ to these nuclear body may be regulate by posttranslational modification such a sumo modification that be require for pml to form pml nuclear domain ( zhong et al. 2000a , 2000b ; best et al. 2002 ) .
these focus may serve a assembly point where tif1γ form multisubunit complex with dna - bind transcription factor and their other essential coactivators or corepressors , during the early stage of erythroid differentiation .
it will be important to determine the identity of tif1γ - interact protein in nuclear focus and establish how they function with tif1γ to regulate blood cell development .
material and method
zebrafish and mouse strain and study
zebrafish be maintain and stag a describe ( westerfield 1998 ) .
the allele montb222b and montg234 be generate in a large - scale screen for enu - induce mutation ( ransom et al. 1996 ) on the tu , whereas the monm262 allele be derive on the ab strain and be originally call vampire ( weinstein et al. 1996 ) .
map strain be construct by mat to wik or sjd polymorphic strain .
linkage analysis be perform on haploid or diploid embryo obtain from tu / sjd or tu / wik hybrid .
in situ hybridization and staining of embryo be do a describe ( thompson et al. 1998 ; liao et al. 2002 ) .
in situ hybridization of mouse embryo be perform a describe ( kingsley et al. 2001 ) .
genomic dna isolation , genotyping , aflp analysis , and chromosomal walking be each perform a previously describe ( brownlie et al. 1998 ; ransom and zon 1999 ) .
a complete list of primer for genetic mapping , rt - pcr , and sequencing of mon be available on request .
mrna expression construct , morpholinos , and microinjection
the full - length mon cdna be subcloned into ecori and xhoi site in the pcs2 + vector .
synthetic mrna be transcribe in vitro , and microinjection be perform essentially a describe ( liao et al. 2002 ) .
cell transplantation
whole kidney marrow cell be isolate from adult gata1 : egfp transgenic donor , resuspend in 0.9 x phosphate - buffer saline + 5 % fetal bovine serum , and inject into the sinus venosus of 2 - d - old montg234 − / − and control embryo .
between 102 and 103 kidney marrow cell be inject per embryo .
individual transplant embryo be anesthetize and visualize daily under an invert fluorescent microscope ( dm - ire2 ; leica , wetzlar , germany ) for gfp + cell over a span of 12 d .
on day 13 posttransplant , all survive larva ( 12 / 129 ; 9 % ) be place in tank and monitor for survival .
antibody , immunostaining , and immunoblots
antiserum against the human c - terminal tif1γ sequence rrkrlksderpvhik be generate in rabbit ( genemed synthesis , south san francisco , california , united state ) and affinity purify .
mouse embryonic fibroblast grow on coverslips be immunostained with hp1α ( chemicon , temecula , california , united state ) and tif1γ antiserum simultaneously .
in brief , cell be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde for 5 min , wash with phosphate - buffer saline , and block with 5 % serum ( pbst ) for 30 min .
after incubation with the primary antibody ( pbst , 60 min ) cell be wash three time with pbst and incubate with secondary antibody ( jackson laboratory , bar harbor , maine , united state ) follow by three wash in pbst .
cell be embed with vectashield / dapi and analyze use an axioplan 2 microscope ( zeiss , jena , germany ) .
digital image be process use the volocity 1.0 software ( improvision , lexington , massachusetts , united state ) .
g1e cell differentiation experiment be perform essentially a describe ( wei et al. 1997 ) .
support information
transplantation of wild - type zebrafish marrow cell carry a gata1 : gfp transgene into 2 - d - old embryo reconstitute erythropoiesis , but not viability , in montg234 homozygous mutant .
movie of live embryo at day 3 posttransplant highlight less than 100 gfp + rbc in circulation .
transplanted cell be observe to proliferate , result in thousand of donor - derive erythrocyte 7 d later .
movie present gfp - fluorescent image of live zebrafish larva .
video s1
untransplanted control montg234 homozygous mutant have no fluorescent cell in circulation at 3 day of development
( 13.7 mb mov ) .
click here for additional data file .
video s2
one day after transplantation , less than 100 gfp + erythrocyte be visible in the circulation of three montg234 homozygous mutant
( 11.3 mb mov ) .
click here for additional data file .
video s3
untransplanted control montg234 homozygous mutant have no fluorescent cell in circulation at 9 day of development
( 7.9 mb mov ) .
click here for additional data file .
video s4
seven day after transplantation , thousand of donor - derive erythrocyte be visible in the circulation of a representative montg234 homozygous mutant
( 11.2 mb mov )
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank ) accession number for the gene and gene product discuss in this paper be fly bonus ( aaf19646 ) , human tif1α ( 015164 ) , human tif1β ( q13263 ) , human tifγ ( q9upn9 ) , human tif1γ ( q9upn9 ) , mon ( ay59853 ) , mouse tif1α ( q64127 ) , mouse tif1β ( aah58391 ) , and mouse tif1γ ( np444400 ) .
the cdna sequence of zebrafish mon / tif1γ and tif1α have be deposit in genbank under the accession number ay598453 and ay598454 , respectively .
acknowledgement
we thank a. davidson , j. amatruda , and j. christian for critical review of this manuscript ; j. postlethwait and w. talbot for helpful discussion and experimental advice ; b. weinstein for the gift of the m262 allele of mon ; and d. giarla for administrative assistance .
dgr be fund by the american cancer society and an award to oregon health and science university by the howard hughes medical institute ( hhmi ) biomedical research support program for medical school .
liz and sho be investigator of the hhmi .
this work be support by grant from the national institute of health .
abbreviation
aflp - amplify fragment length polymorphism
enu - ethyl - nitrosourea
est - express sequence tag
gfp - green fluorescent protein
hpf - hour postfertilization
krab - krüppel - associate box
mon - moonshine ; pac
pml - promyelocytic leukemia gene product
rbc - red blood cell
scl - stem cell leukemia ; sscp
tif - transcriptional intermediary factor
tu - tübingen background
figure and table
figure 1
zebrafish mon mutant have severe defect in primitive hematopoiesis
( a ) whole - mount tunel assay reveal that ventral - posterior mesodermal cell undergo apoptosis in homozygous montg234 mutant embryo .
whole - mount in situ hybridization of gata1 detect at the 12 - and 18 - somite stage in genotyped embryo .
posterior view , anterior to the left .
( b ) extensive apoptosis be visible in the trunk and tail ( arrowhead ) and also in hematopoietic cell of the embryonic blood island at 22 h of development ( arrow ) .
whole - mount in situ hybridization at 22 hpf include scl , gata2 , gata1 , ikaros , and myb in montg234 mutant .
expression of myb be greatly reduce in the blood island because of a loss of erythroid cell , but embryonic macrophage be still present ( arrow ) .
the expression of rag1 in thymic t - cell appear normal in mon mutant at 5 d postfertilization ( arrow head ) .
lateral view of 22 hpf and 5 - d - old embryo .
figure 2
zebrafish mon mutant also have severe defect in definitive hematopoiesis
adult phenotype of wild - type and mon mutant .
a rare survive montb222 homozygous adult show significant cardiomegaly in comparison to a wild - type age - match control .
wright – giemsa stain marrow of wild - type adult in comparison to a homozygous mutant .
note the dramatic reduction of terminally differentiate erythroid cell and the presence of abnormally large megaloblastic proerythroblasts in the montb222 mutant marrow .
figure 3
positional cloning identify the mon gene a zebrafish tif1γ
( a ) physical map of the mon locus on zebrafish chromosome 8 .
microsatellite marker z987 and z11001 be use to initially identify recombinant in a panel of 2,200 diploid montg234 homozygous mutant .
the aflp marker ma3 be use to initiate a chromosomal walk in pac library .
the critical pac that be isolate to encompass the mon locus be indicate by number above bar .
the pac 107n19 define the critical interval for the mon gene .
this pac be use a a probe to screen cdna library and to identify zebrafish tif1γ cdna .
number below the bar indicate the number of recombinant identify by sscp analysis .
( b ) clustal - w – generate phylogentic tree of zebrafish ( danio rerio [ dr ] ) tif1γ and tif1α peptide sequence in comparison to tif1 family member : human ( h ) tif1α , tif1β , and tif1γ ; mouse ( mm ) tif1α , tif1β , and tif1γ ; ; and fly ( dm ) bonus .
( c ) diagram illustrate the structure of the tif1γ - predict peptide and the three identify point mutant .
ring finger ( ring ) , b - box ( b1 and b2 ) , plant homeodomain finger ( phd ) and bromodomain ( bromo ) .
number below the first diagram indicate the percent identity share between each of these domain in zebrafish and human tif1γ .
the predicted truncated protein be indicate .
( d ) dna sequence chromatogram show the three enu - induce point mutant in comparison to wild - type control sequence
figure 4
the mon / tif1γ gene be highly express in hematopoietic mesoderm
( a ) in situ hybridization of zebrafish embryo demonstrate the embryonic expression of tif1γ .
tif1γ be initially express a a maternal mrna .
increased expression of tif1γ in ventral - lateral mesoderm begin between the one - to three - somite stage and increase through early development .
by five somite , tif1γ be strongly express in lateral stripe of mesoderm that also express scl .
at 22 hpf tif1γ be express broadly in the brain , spinal cord , trunk , and tail mesenchyme , but be at much high level in hematopoietic cell of the blood island .
zebrafish tif1α be also broadly express but relatively more uniform in most tissue , in comparison to tif1γ .
tif1α be weakly express at early somite stage in hematopoietic mesoderm and uniformly express at 22 hpf , include expression in the blood island .
expression of scl at five somite and 22 hpf highlight the embryonic blood island in comparison to tif1γ expression .
( b ) in situ hybridization of mouse embryo detect broad expression of tif1γ at embryonic day 8.5 include the yolk sac blood island ( arrow ) .
at embryonic day 12.5 , there be high level expression in the fetal liver ( arrow ) and broad expression in the embryonic brain , spinal chord , gut , and muscle .
figure 5
overexpression of wild - type tif1γ mrna or marrow transplantation rescue embryonic hematopoiesis in mon mutant
( a ) montg234 mutant be rescue by injection of mrna - encode wild - type tif1γ protein .
at 4 d of development , large number of rbc be visible in the circulation of wild - type zebrafish , show here by o - dianisidine staining of hemoglobin .
uninjected monttg234 homozygous mutant be completely bloodless .
injection of 100 pg of wild - type tif1γ mrna rescue erythropoiesis in mutant embryo .
o - dianisidine - stain larva be show in ventral view to highlight blood in vessel .
( b ) transplantation of wild - type zebrafish marrow cell carry a gata1 : gfp transgene into 2 - d - old embryo reconstitute erythropoiesis , but not viability , in montg234 homozygous mutant .
still frame from movie of live embryo at day 3 posttransplant highlight less than 100 gfp + rbc in circulation ( top ) .
transplant cell be observe to proliferate result in thousand of donor - derive erythrocyte 7 d later ( bottom ) .
arrow indicate the heart of control and transplant zebrafish .
see video s1 – s4 .
figure 6
mammalian tif1γ protein localize to nuclear body distinct from heterochromatin
( a ) deconvolved immunofluorescence image of a mouse embryonic fibroblast cell nucleus stain with an anti-tif1γ antibody and stain with a monoclonal antibody direct against hp1α .
this be also compare to dapi staining .
the merge image of the nucleus show that tif1γ do not colocalize with the hp1α or dapi staining of heterochromatin while hp1α and dapi staining overlap .
( b ) g1er mouse erythroleukemia cell express high level of tif1γ protein a detect by western blot analysis .
expression of tif1γ decrease during gata1 - dependent erythroid maturation induce by β - estradiol treatment to induce a gata1 – er fusion protein .
table 1
overexpression of tif1γ mrna rescue mon mutant : hematopoietic phenotype
synthetic tif1γ mrna ( 100 pg ) be inject at the one - cell stage into embryo of the indicate genotype .
for the mon embryo , circulate cell where count each day through 4 d , when the embryo be fix and stain with o - dianisidine to detect hemoglobin in mature rbc .
normal embryo contain approximately 3,000 circulate cell at these time point .
result be give a number of embryo with the indicate phenotype .
number in parenthesis represent percentage of total embryo analyze
table 2
marrow transplantation rescue hematopoiesis but not survival in mon mutant : embryo with transplant erythroid cell
between 100 and 1,000 kidney marrow cell from adult gata1 : egfp transgenic donor be inject per zebrafish embryo at 48 hpf .
individual transplant embryo be anesthetize and visualize for gfp + erythroid cell .
by 10 d posttransplantation the indicate number of embryo have an estimate 100 to 3,000 gfp + cell in circulation .
at 3 mo the indicate number of fish be alive .
the relative percentage of embryo be show in parenthesis
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
dgr , nb , kn , dt , cb , nst , yz , jp , sho , and liz conceive and design the experiment .
dgr , nb , kn , dt , cb , nst , npl , wjs , cal , ch , bab , and pdk perform the experiment .
dgr , nb , kn , dt , cb , nst , npl , yz , jp , sho , and liz analyze the data .
dgr , nb , kn , dt , nst , yz , bab , sl , and jp contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
dgr , nb , kn , dt , and liz write the paper .
academic editor : william talbot , stanford university
¤ current address : department of cell and developmental biology , oregon health and science university , portland , oregon , united state of america
citation : ransom dg , bahary n , ni k , traver d , burn c , et al. ( 2004 ) the zebrafish moonshine gene encode transcriptional intermediary factor 1 γ , an essential regulator of hematopoiesis .
plo biol 2 ( 8 ) : e237 .
defective alk5 signaling in the neural crest lead to increase postmigratory neural crest cell apoptosis and severe outflow tract defect
abstract
background
congenital cardiovascular disease be the most common form of birth defect in human .
a substantial portion of these defect have be associate with inappropriate induction , migration , differentiation and patterning of pluripotent cardiac neural crest stem cell .
while tgf - β - superfamily signaling have be strongly implicate in neural crest cell development , the detailed molecular signaling mechanism in vivo be still poorly understand .
result
we delete the tgf - β type i receptor alk5 specifically in the mouse neural crest cell lineage .
failure in signaling via alk5 lead to severe cardiovascular and pharyngeal defect , include inappropriate remodeling of pharyngeal arch artery , abnormal aortic sac development , failure in pharyngeal organ migration and persistent truncus arteriosus .
while alk5 be not require for neural crest cell migration , our result demonstrate that it play an important role in the survival of post-migratory cardiac neural crest cell .
conclusion
our result demonstrate that alk5 - mediate signaling in neural crest cell play an essential cell - autonomous role in the pharyngeal and cardiac outflow tract development .
background
a considerable percentage of cardiac birth defect be cause by a failure in normal migration , differentiation or patterning of the cardiac neural crest ( cnc ) .
this subset of pluripotent neural crest stem cell form in the dorsal aspect of the neural tube at the level of the mid-otic placode to the third somite [ 1 ] .
subsequently cardiac neural crest cell ( cnccs ) delaminate , undergo a phenotypic transformation from an epithelial to mesenchymal cell type , and migrate latero - ventrally into the 3rd , 4th and 6th pharyngeal arch artery ( paas ) , where they contribute to the formation of the smooth muscle cell layer of endothelial structure derive from the aortic arch artery [ 1 - 3 ] .
a subset of cnccs continue to migrate deeply into the aortic sac to form the aortico - pulmonary septum ; a vital structure , which separate the pulmonary trunk from the aorta [ 4 ] .
an indispensable role of cnccs in the development of the cardiac outflow tract be originally demonstrate by pioneer study of kirby and coworkers [ 1 ] , who show that ablation of the cnc in the chick lead to severe outflow tract ( oft ) defect include persistent truncus arteriosus ( pta ) , mispatterning of the great vessel and outflow tract mal-alignments [ 5 ] .
early migratory cnccs have be show to retain a considerable degree of plasticity and their fate be largely control by instructional signal from local environment into which nccs migrate [ 6 ] .
several recent study have indicate that member of the tgf - β superfamily , i.e. , tgf - βs and bmps be likely candidate to provide some of these signal .
mouse deficient in tgf - β2 display fourth aortic arch artery defect [ 7 ] , while neural crest cell specific abrogation of tgf - β type ii receptor ( tgfbr2 ) result in interruption of the aortic arch and pta [ 8 , 9 ] .
bmps 6 and - 7 be require for proper formation of the outflow tract cushion [ 10 ] , while bmp type ii receptor be need for proper development of the conotruncal ridge [ 11 ] .
moreover , neural crest - specific deletion of the bmp type i receptor alk2 and alk3 have be show to lead to defective aortico - pulmonary septation , among other cardiac defect [ 12 , 13 ] .
tgf - β subfamily ligand signal via a receptor complex compose of two type ii receptor and two type i receptor [ 14 , 15 ] .
ligand binding lead to phosphorylation and activation of type i receptor , which , in turn , phosphorylate and activate a specific set of downstream signaling molecule call smads .
in general term , tgf - βs bind to the tgf - β type ii receptor ( tgfβrii ) and tgf - β type i receptor ( alk5 ) activate tgf - β smads ( 2 and 3 ) , while bmps bind to the bmp type ii receptor and type i receptor alk2 , - 3 , or 6 , activate bmp smads ( 1 , 5 and 8 ) .
however , it be likely that these signaling interaction be more complex in vivo , possibly allow formation of heterotetrameric complex compose of different type ii and type i receptor [ 16 ] .
in addition , recent study have identify novel tgf - β - relate ligand , which can bind to entire different combination of receptor .
for instance , growth and differentiation factor ( gdfs ) 8 and 9 can bind to activin type ii receptor and alk5 to activate tgf - β smads [ 17 , 18 ] .
therefore , we hypothesize that deletion of alk5 in a specific cell lineage should reveal phenotype which can not be see in comparable mutant lack tgfbr2 .
indeed , we recently show that neural crest cell specific alk5 mutant display a unique spectrum of craniofacial developmental defect , e.g. , cleft snout and severe mandibular hypoplasia [ 19 ] ; these phenotype be not see in correspond tgfbr2 mutant [ 20 ] .
to determine , whether alk5 would also mediate unique non-redundant signaling event in cardiac neural crest cell , we focus on cardiac and pharyngeal phenotype of mouse embryo lack alk5 specifically in neural crest cell .
we discover that in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant , pharyngeal organ ( thymus and parathyroid ) fail to migrate appropriately .
moreover , the mutant embryo display severe aortic sac and pharyngeal arch artery defect , and fail aortico - pulmonary septation lead to pta .
our data far suggest that at least some of these abnormal detect phenotype result from a dramatic increase in apoptosis of postmigratory cardiac neural crest cell .
these phenotype differ remarkably from those see in correspond tgfbr2 mutant , suggest that alk5 mediate a wide spectrum of signaling event than it classical binding partner tgfβrii in cardiac neural crest cell during cardiac and pharyngeal development .
result
persistent truncus arteriosus and abnormal large vessel in mouse lack alk5 in cardiac nccs
to inactivate alk5 in cardiac nccs , mouse homozygous for the floxed alk5 allele ( alk5flox / flox ) [ 21 ] be cross with transgenic wnt1 - cre mouse [ 22 ] , which be also heterozygous for the alk5 knockout allele ( alk5ko ) allele .
the result mouse heterozygous for the alk5flox and alk5ko allele , which also carry the wnt1 - cre transgene , have the alk5 gene specifically inactivate in nccs ( herein term alk5 / wnt1 - cre ) , while the littermates with remain allelic combination be phenotypically normal and serve a control ( alk5flox / + , alk5ko / + ; wnt1 - cre ) .
when embryo be harvest during the last day of gestation , an expected number ( 25 % ) of alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant be recover .
however , all mutant offspring die either during the birth or during the first post-natal hour .
to determine , if alk5 - mediate tgf - β - signaling have a role in development of the oft and large vessel of the aortic arch , we perform cast dye experiment on e17 embryo ( fig. 1a – d ) .
in wild - type embryo ( fig. 1a ) , the aorta be clearly separate from the pulmonary trunk , and the right brachiocephalic , left carotid and left subclavian artery branch directly off the aortic arch .
in contrast , alk5 / wnt1cre mutant embryo consistently display a single prominent arterial trunk ( fig. 1c – d ) , while correspond tgfbr2 mutant embryo ( fig. 1b ) display interrupt aortic arch , a report earlier [ 8 ] .
approximately 40 % of the alk5 mutant have a right - side outflow tract , with the retroesophageal arch connect to the descend aorta and to the left subclavian artery .
the carotid artery originate either from a common bud locate in the ventral side of the ascend arch , or from separate adjacent site , a verify by serial sectioning ( fig. 1m – p ) .
the remain mutant display a left - side aortic arch , where the right carotid artery originate from the right lateral aspect of the ascend trunk , while the left carotid artery bud from the ventral or right ventral aspect of the trunk ( fig. 1i – l ) .
both right and left subclavian artery consistently originate from the descend part of the aortic arch .
similarly , in all mutant both left and right pulmonary artery always branch out from the common arterial trunk .
to conclude , alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant consistently display pta , which differ significantly from the characteristic interrupt aortic arch phenotype see in tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre mutant [ 8 , 9 ] .
figure 1
abrogation of alk5 in neural crest cell lead to persistent truncus arteriosus type a2 .
a - d , cast - dye analysis of oft morphogenesis at e17.0 .
control ( a ) , tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre mutant [ 8 ] ( b ) demonstrate the pta type a4 ( = truncus arteriosus with interrupt aortic arch [ 30 ] ) and alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant demonstrate the right - side ( c ) and left - side ( d ) arch of the truncus .
e - p , histological cross-sections on four different level ( rostral to caudal ) at e17.0 .
in a control ( e - h ) , the ascend aorta ( ao ) and pulmonary trunk ( pt ) be separate by the conotruncal septum .
in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( i - p ) the conotruncal septum fail to form , and either left - side ( i - l ) or right - side ( m - p ) aortic arch can be see .
aberrant branching of carotid artery from the truncus have be illustrate by black arrow ( j and m ) .
ao , aorta ; pt , pulmonary trunk ; rsa , right subclavian artery ; rca , right carotid artery ; lca ; left carotid artery ; lsa , left subclavian artery ; iaa , interrupt aortic arch ; pta , persistent truncus arteriosus .
abnormal patterning of the pharyngeal arch artery and aortic sac in alk5 / wnt1cre mutant
during cardiovascular development , the paas undergo a complex set of sequential asymmetric remodeling step result in the left - side aortic arch .
to determine , whether alk5 - mediate signaling be involve in remodeling of paas , we perform intracardiac india ink injection at different developmental stage .
while at e10 , alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant do not show obvious difference in the paas , abnormal remodeling become obvious in mutant a day later at e11 ( fig. 2 ) .
the control display the well - form 3rd , 4th and 6th paas .
moreover , the carotid duct ( the dorsal aorta between the 3rd and 4th paas ) be already regress a demonstrate by the reduce size ( fig. 2a ) .
in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant , the 3rd and 4th pair of paas be bilaterally hypoplastic , whereas the 6th pair of paas be notably hyperplastic ( fig. 2b ) .
furthermore , the carotid duct be remarkably large , when compare to control .
while the control display an interruption of the carotid duct at e12 and e13 a expect ( fig. 2c ) , the mutant demonstrate an uncharacteristic break of the dorsal aorta between the 4th and 6th pair of paas ( fig. 2d ) .
figure 2
abnormal patterning of the paas in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
left lateral view after intracardiac ink injection to visualize the develop paas at e11.0 ( a , b ) , e12.0 ( c , d ) and e13.0 ( e , f ) in control ( a , c , e ) and alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( b , d , f ) .
arrow in a point to the regress carotid duct .
asterisk in b depict the correspond structure in the mutant with no sign of regression .
asterisk in d illustrate the aberrant regression of the dorsal aorta between the 4th and 6th paas .
pt , pulmonary trunk ; ao , aorta ; ta , truncus arteriosus .
around e11.5 , the aortic sac normally form a distinctive t - shape structure , a see in frontal section of the control sample in fig. 3 ( a , c ) .
subsequently , the right horn of this structure transform into the prospective brachiocephalic artery , while the left horn together with the left 4th paa give rise to the definitive aortic arch [ 23 ] .
in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant , the t - shape aortic sac fail to form ( fig. 3b , d ) .
instead , the truncus bifurcate to a left and right arm , which far branch to the paas , particularly to the predominant pair of 6th paas ( fig. 3b , d ) .
the observe phenotype be consistent with the absence or severe hypoplasia of structure derive from the aortic sac in late stage embryo ( e17 ) , e.g. , the miss brachiocephalic artery and severe shortening of the ascend truncus a show in the figure 1 .
figure 3
abnormal aortic sac in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( b , d ) fail to form the typical t - shape structure of the aortic sac see in control at e11.5 .
( a , c ) .
a - b , frontal image of ink - inject embryo ; c - d , frontal section ( h & e staining ) .
arrow in a and b point to the level of section show in c and d ( red arrow in c and d point to the aortic sac of the control and mutant , respectively ) .
cardiac nccs deficient in alk5 can populate the outflow tract
next we use the r26r lineage - trace assay to determine whether cnccs could appropriately populate the outflow tract region .
briefly , alk5flox / flox mouse be cross with the rosa26 cre reporter mouse , and subsequently alk5flox / flox ; r26r ( + / + ) female be cross with alk5ko / wt ; wnt1 - cre male .
the result embryo have the nc - lineage permanently label with β - galactosidase expression , and display identical phenotype to those obtain without the r26r reporter .
staining of embryo for β - galactosidase at e8 - e11 do not reveal detectable difference in ncc migration between mutant and control ( data not show ) .
similarly , serial transverse sectioning of whole mount embryo ( e10 - e12 ) and subsequent analysis of positively stain cell in the oft region demonstrate that cnccs deficient in alk5 be capable of populate the paas , aortic sac and conotruncal ridge at a level comparable to that of control ( fig 4 ) .
to conclude , the observe phenotype in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant be certainly not due to defective migration of cnccs to the pharyngeal and outflow tract region .
figure 4
normal cardiac ncc migration in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
the oft of control ( a , c , e ) and alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( b , d , f ) display similar staining pattern when analyze use the r26r lineage tracing assay at e11.0 .
a - b , whole mount staining ( left lateral image ) ; c - f , transverse section on the level of the 4th ( c , d ) and 6th ( e , f ) paas .
arrow ( a - f ) point to the most proximal location stain positive for the β - galactosidase activity .
aortic sac and aortico - pulmonary septal defect in alk5 / wnt1cre mutant embryo
septation of the outflow tract lumen begin in a cranial - to - caudal direction , start distally in the aortic sac and proceed toward the heart [ 24 ] .
initially , the condense mesenchyme derive from the nc form in the base of the aortic sac between the origin of 4th and 6th paas .
subsequently , two prong of the develop aortico - pulmonary ( ap ) septum extend into the truncal cushion and the aortico - pulmonary septation complex cross the aortic sac cranially .
in ink - inject control embryo at e11.5 , a characteristic conotruncal transition separate the truncus and conus could be see a a twist configuration , result from a change in orientation of the truncal and conal cushion ( fig. 5 ) .
in contrast , in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant the outflow tract appear unusually straight , fail to demonstrate the distinct conotruncal transition ( fig. 5b , d ) .
this assay also clearly show a dramatic reduction in the size of the aortic sac .
histological analysis of control sample display the characteristic rotation of the aortic sac and truncal oft at the level where the ap septation take place and verify the presence of the distinctive condense ap - septal mesenchyme , which gradually divide the oft to the aorta and the pulmonary trunk ( asterisk in fig. 6a ) .
r26r lineage tracing show that this tissue be derive from the nc , while immunostaining for α - sma show differentiation into smooth muscle ( fig 6b ) .
in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant the characteristic rotation of the aortic sac and truncal oft fail to take place ( fig. 6g – l ) , and a properly form ap - septum be not detectable ( fig. 6g , h ) .
r26r lineage tracing demonstrate that the defect be not due to failure of nccs to reach the oft region .
nc - derive cell around the abnomally bifurcate aortic sac , the abnormally large sixth paas and the truncus demonstrate strong αsma staining ( fig. 6h , j , l ) .
recently , we show that the nc - specific mutant of the relate type i receptor , alk2 , display pta as well [ 12 ] .
in alk2 / wnt1 - cre mutant , the rotation of the aortic sac and truncal oft fail to occur ( fig. 6m – r ) a see in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
however , in alk2 mutant the 6th pair of the paas be grossly hypoplastic , and while the alk2 / wnt1 - cre mutant display a noticeable amount of septal tissue between the 4th and 6th paas ( fig. 6m , n ) , the condense septal mesenchyme lack alk2 fail to extend the prong into the truncal cushion and to form the ap septum .
concurrently , the 6th paas be lose their patency , which may have far contribute to the fail ap septation ( fig. 6m , o , q ) .
while cnccs manage to migrate to the aortic sac and the truncal cushion level ( fig. 6n , p , r ) , immunostaining for αsma appear much weak when compare to control and alk5 mutant , imply that alk2 - mediate signaling be involve in smooth muscle cell differentiation a previously suggest [ 12 ] .
to conclude , while both alk2 and alk5 mutant demonstrate a failure in both the rotation of the aortic sac and the truncal oft , and in the formation of the ap septum , the pathogenetic mechanism behind these defect appear remarkably different .
figure 5
the truncal oft fail to rotate in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
left ( a , c ) and right ( b , d ) lateral image of ink - inject control ( a - b ) and mutant ( c - d ) embryo at e11.5 demonstrate the abnormally straight oft in mutant lack the typical conotruncal transition ( black arrow in a vs. black arrowhead in c ) see in control .
red arrowhead ( c ) point to the abnormally shape aortic sac .
red " s " , aortic sac ; t , truncus ; c , conus .
figure 6
signaling via alk5 and alk2 control different aspect of aortico - pulmonary septation .
frontal section from distal ( top row ) to proximal ( bottom row ) of the control ( a - f ) , alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( g - l ) and alk2 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( m - r ) sample ( e11.5 ) .
a , c , e , g , i , k , m , o , q , h & e staining ; b , d , f , h , j , l , n , p , r , double staining for αsma ( brown ) and β - galactosidase ( green ; r26r reporter assay ) .
6 , the 6th paa ; a , aortic sac ; ta , truncus arteriosus ; ao , aorta ; pt , pulmonary trunk ; asterisk in a , b , m and n depict the ap septal mesenchyme .
alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant display increase apoptosis of post-migratory neural crest cell
a describe above , alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant display an inadequate amount of ap - septal tissue in the base of the aortic sac between the origin of 4th and 6th paas .
to analyze whether this phenotype result either from defective cncc proliferation or inappropriate apoptosis , we use brdu and tunel staining , respectively .
while cncc proliferation be not affect in alk5 mutant ( data not show ) , we could detect a dramatic increase in the number of tunel positive cell in tissue surround the aortic sac include the site where the ap - septum form ( fig. 7a – c ) .
dual staining for lacz and tunel positive cell demonstrate that these cell be postmigratory cnccs ; this phenotype be already clearly detectable at e10.5 .
these result be confirm by use immunostaining for cleave caspase - 3 , another marker for apoptosis ( fig. 7i , j ) .
in the chick , apoptotic neural crest - derive cell have also be find at the site , where the prong of the ap septum penetrate into the oft cushion mesenchyme [ 25 , 26 ] .
thus , we compare apoptosis pattern also on the more proximal level , but find no detectable difference at e11.0 between alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant and control ( fig. 7d , e ) .
unlike in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant embryo , increase apoptosis of nc - derive cell be not responsible for the observe defect in the oft septation in correspond alk2 mutant ( fig. 7c , e ) .
figure 7
aberrant apoptosis of nccs in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
tunel ( a - h ) and cleave caspase - 3 ( i , j ) staining at e11.0 demonstrate a notable increase in apoptosis in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( b , h , j ) on the aortic sac level when compare to control ( a , g , i ) or alk2 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( c ) ( frontal section ) , while section on the oft level do not demonstrate difference between control ( d ) and alk5 ( e ) or alk2 ( f ) mutant .
g , h , tunel staining of lacz - stain embryo demonstrate that apoptotic cell be of neural crest origin .
g , control ; h , mutant .
as , aortic sac , arrow point to cluster of apoptotic cell surround the aortic sac .
to conclude , our result suggest that in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant a noticeable increase in apoptosis coincide with the abnormal patterning of the paas and the aortic sac , and with the fail ap - septation .
these data support a specific role for alk5 signaling , either directly or indirectly , in cncc survival , since a similar apoptosis of nc - derive cell be not see in tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre mutant [ 8 , 9 ] .
pharyngeal organ fail to migrate in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant
in addition to the cardiac oft , development of pharyngeal organ , i.e. , the parathyroid gland and the thymus be also abnormal in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant ( see figs. 1 and 8 ) .
normally the thymus develop from the third pharyngeal pouch endoderm and migrate caudally to it final location in the superior mediastinum a see in control at e14 ( fig. 8a , b ) .
in contrast , the thymic primordium of the alk5 mutant littermates fail to descend caudally , and be locate bilaterally in the neck region , where they be surround by neural crest - derive mesenchyme ( fig. 8d , e ) .
the fate determination assay demonstrate that the thymic primordium be equally populate by nccs both in control and alk5 mutant ( fig. 8b , e ) .
likewise the parathyroid gland fail to migrate normally in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
during normal development , the parathyroid first migrate in association with the thymic primordium , until they reach the thyroid in the neck region a see in fig 8c .
in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant , the parathyroid remain associated with the thymic primordium , and despite this abnormal rostral location , expression of parathyroid hormone be indistinguishable between alk5 mutant and control at e14 ( fig. 8c , f ) .
to conclude , the observe pharyngeal organ phenotype be also in striking contrast to those see in tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre mutant [ 8 , 9 ] .
figure 8
pharyngeal organ fail to migrate in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant .
at e14.0 , the thymus be not detectable in the superior mediastinum ( asterisk ) in alk5 mutant ( d ) , when compare to control ( a ) .
serial sectioning reveal that the thymic primordium have fail to descend and be see bilaterally in the upper pharyngeal region ( e , f ) surround by neural crest derive mesenchyme ( blue staining cell in e ) .
in control , the parathyroid gland be properly associate with the thyroid gland ( arrow in c ) , while in alk5 mutant the parathyroid gland be associate with the thymic primordium ( arrow in f ) .
however , both control and mutant express parathyroid hormone ( pth ) at comparable level ( blue staining in c and f ) .
a and d , hematoxyllin and eosin staining ; b and e , r26 r lineage tracing assay – counterstaining with eosin ; c and f , section in situ hybridization for pth – counterstaining with eosin .
t , thymus ; th , thyroid ; asterisk in d depict the absence of the thymic primordium ; asterisk in e and f depict the tongue .
discussion
during the last few year the wnt1 - cre transgenic driver line have prove to be a powerful tool for tissue - specific gene deletion in nccs [ 12 , 13 , 27 , 28 ] .
use this approach , several study have independently show that the nc - specific deletion of the tgfbr2 gene lead to a distinct set of calvarial , facial and cardiac defect [ 8 , 9 , 20 , 29 ] .
interestingly , these defect appear quite different both in the craniofacial and pharyngeal region , include the heart , when compare to the correspond mutant of alk5 , which encode the tgf - β type i receptor , a prototypical binding partner of tgf - βrii [ 19 ] and the present study ) .
while tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre mutant as well a mouse deficient in tgf - β2 display the pta type a4 ( truncus arteriosus with interrupt aortic arch [ 30 ] ) , alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant report here demonstrate early patterning defect of the paas , which be particularly obvious in the 3rd pair of the paas .
moreover , the alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant display an abnormal patterning of the aortic sac and defective ap septation lead to pta , reminiscent of type a2 ( = truncus artriosus with no main pulmonary artery segment present [ 30 ] ) .
however , our result also demonstrate that significant hypoplasia of the aortic sac lead to a severe shortening of the ascend truncal arch , which mask possible defect in derivative of the 4th paas , i.e. , interruption of the aortic arch .
these observe difference be likely due to substantial apoptosis of alk5 - deficient post-migratory neural crest cell , which be clearly detectable at e10.5 , whereas similar intense cell death have not be report in tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre mutant [ 9 ] .
our present result suggest that while tgf - β signaling in cardiac nccs be predominantly mediate via the alk5 / tgf - βrii receptor complex , alk5 also mediate signaling of other related ligand , which be either directly or indirectly require for appropriate ncc survival .
in fact , it have be show that , besides tgf - βrii , alk5 can also form a complex with the activin type iib receptor to activate downstream smads 2 / 3 [ 18 , 31 ] .
furthermore , a subset of tgf - β - relate growth and differentiation factor ( gdfs ) , e.g. , gdf8 , gdf9 , gdf11 and gdf15 could induce these event [ 17 , 18 , 32 , 33 ] .
although relevant gdfs 8 , 9 11 and 15 be not express in the develop heart , nor do the mouse deficient in these gdfs display developmental cardiac defect , we can not exclude the possibility that circulate gdfs , perhaps in concert with tgf - βs may contribute to ncc survival during cardiac and pharyngeal morphogenesis .
we specifically study apoptosis at the level of the aortic sac , where the ap - septum form between the origin of 4th and 6th paas .
already at e10.5 , we could see intense apoptosis among the postmigratory nccs in the mesenchyme surround the aortic sac at the site where the prospective ap septum form , i.e. , this cell death precede the ap septal defect see in mutant .
although some nc - derive cell appear to be differentiate to smooth muscle cell in the oft ( fig. 6 ) , we could never detect the ap septum form in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant between e10.5 and e11.5 .
these finding suggest that the pool of cell form the ap septum be severely affect by the cell death .
moreover , it be likely that these cell form the ap - septum die the before majority of them can differentiate to smooth muscle cell .
several in vitro study have suggest an indispensable role for tgf - β - signal in differentiation of nccs into smooth muscle cell .
moreover , a recent in vivo study suggest that mouse lack tgfbr2 in cnccs display defective ncc differentiation into αsma - positive cell in the ap septum [ 9 ] , although this result be later dispute by another study [ 8 ] .
our immunohistochemical staining of αsma in the oft unequivocally demonstrate that signaling via alk5 be not require for smooth muscle differentiation in vivo .
moreover , it have be suggest that deletion of tgfbr2 in nccs lead to other phenotypic feature reminiscent of those see in the velocardiofacial / digeorge syndrome ( vcf / dg ) [ 9 ] cause by a deletion of the so call digeorge critical region ( dgcr ) on chromosome 22q11 [ 34 , 35 ] .
our present result suggest that although many of the observe phenotype see in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant superficially resemble those see in vcf / dg , a detail examination show that the nc - specific abrogation of alk5 do not lead to vcf / dg - like phenotype .
firstly , while the pharyngeal organ migration fail in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant , perhaps a a result of increase mesenchymal cell death in the pharyngeal region , both the thymus , thyroid and parathyroid seem to develop relatively normally on the histological level in these mutant .
secondly , the ncc death see in alk5 mutant affect a predominantly postmigratory population of nccs , while gene locate in the dgcr , i.e. , tbx1 and crkl , control ncc survival earlier at e8.5 - e10 by regulate proliferation of the secondary heart field ( shf ) , and endoderm expansion , which in turn provide survival signal for nccs allow them to populate the pharyngeal region [ 36 - 39 ] .
ncc ablation in the chick have be show to lead to pta and to a failure of addition of myocardium from the secondary heart field [ 40 ] .
it be suggest that the defective migration of cell from the secondary heart field to the oft in turn result in shortening and inappropriate rotation of the oft , lead to mal-alignment of the arterial pole with the ventricle [ 41 ] .
while the detect oft phenotype in alk5 / wnt1 - cre mutant share many similarity with that see in the chick nc ablation model , e.g. , pta and the hypoplastic aortic sac , our current result suggest that the secondary heart field be not severely affect in alk5 mutant ( data not show ) .
since we could not detect appropriate rotation of the oft in neural crest - specific mutant of alk5 or alk2 , it appear that cell derive from the nc , as well a those from the shf , be mutually require for proper oft rotation in mouse .
however , it appear that these two tgf - β / bmp type i receptor contribute to oft rotation through different mechanism .
in alk5 mutant there be very little , if any , detectable septal mesenchyme present , and thus it could be argue that in these mutant oft rotation fail due to a lack of penetration of septal prong into the cushion mesenchyme .
in contrast , in alk2 / wnt1 - cre mutant a sizeable septal mesenchyme could be see , still without any obvious looping of the aortic sac and truncal oft , suggest that the mere presence of the septal mesenchyme , without correct smooth muscle cell differentiation , be not sufficient for oft rotation .
conclusion
in this study , we have delete the tgf - β type i receptor ( alk5 ) gene specifically in the mouse neural crest ( nc ) cell lineage .
our data suggest that alk5 be require cell autonomously in the nc to mediate non-redundant signaling event that be essential for appropriate patterning of the pharyngeal organ and cardiac oft .
the cardiac and pharyngeal defect observe in the nc - specific alk5 mutant differ significantly from those see in correspond mutant lack the tgf - β type ii receptor , suggest that signaling mediate by alk5 be not limit to the classical tgf - β ligand during cardiac / pharyngeal development .
method
alk5 / wnt1cre mouse
alk5 ( and alk2 ) mutant and control embryo be generate by mat alk5ko / + ( alk2ko / + ) / wnt1 - cre male mouse with female homozygous for the alk5flox ( alk2flox ) allele and the r26r reporter [ 12 , 19 ] .
genotyping be perform by pcr a describe earlier [ 21 , 42 ] .
wnt1 - cre mouse be kindly provide by a. mcmahon ( harvard university ) and r26r reporter mouse be obtain from the jackson laboratory .
all study be carry out at the animal care facility of the saban research institute of childrens hospital los angeles in accordance with institutional guideline .
time mataings
mouse be mat during the dark period of the control light cycle ; presence of vaginal plug be designate a day 0 hour 0 .
female be euthanized by co2 , and embryo be collect in hank ' balance salt solution on ice .
histological analysis
embryo ( e17 ) be fix with 4 % paraformaldehyhe for 14 hour , dehydrate and embed in paraffin wax .
section ( 7 – 8 um ) be stain with hematoxylin and eosin ( n ≥ 3 for each genotype ) .
for lineage tracing analysis , embryo be stain for β - galactosidase activity a describe [ 43 ] .
briefly , the specimen ( e11.0 – e11.5 ) be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde for 30 minute at room temperature , wash 3 time for 10 minute in the detergent wash and develop for 2 – 12 hour in x - gal solution ( n ≥ 3 for each genotype ) .
for immunohistochemistry , fix section from tissue harvest at e10.5 – e11.5 be stain with monoclonal α - smooth muscle actin ( dako ) , cleave caspase - 3 ( cell signaling ) or phophohistone - h3 ( cell signaling ) antibody .
tunel assay be perform use the deadend fluorometric tunel system ( promega ) .
in each assay 3 or more embryo be analyze for each genotype .
ink and casting dye injection
embryo ( e10.0 – e13.0 ) be dissect and place in ice cold pb ( n ≥ 3 per genotype in each time point ) .
use a pull glass pipette , india ink or yellow casting dye ( connecticut valley biological supply ) be inject into the ventricle until ink / dye penetrate small vessel .
embryo be postfixed in 10 % buffer formalin for 12 hour , dehydrate and clear in benzylbenzoate : benzyl alcohol ( 2 : 1v / v ) .
expression analysis
to visualize parathyroid hormone expression we use in situ hybridization and an antisense probe correspond to nucleotide 97 – 534 ( kindly provide by nancy manley ) a describe [ 44 ] .
author ' contribution
j.w. do most of the mouse dissection and analysis , a.n. do some of the histological analysis , j.l. generate the alk5fxfxmice , m.d. do some of the expression analysis , h.m.s. participate in design and provide the tgfbr2 mutant embryo and v.k. generate the alk2fxfx mouse , design and supervise the experiment and write the manuscript .
all author have read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
we thank a. mcmahon for provide the wnt1 - cre mouse line , n. manley for the pth probe and b. choudhary for tgfbr2 / wnt1 - cre embryo .
h.m.s. be support by grant from the nih , and v.k. by grant from the robert e. schneider foundation and the nih ( hl074862 and de013085 ) .
rb - mediate neuronal differentiation through cell - cycle – independent regulation of e2f3a
abstract
it have long be know that loss of the retinoblastoma protein ( rb ) perturb neural differentiation , but the underlying mechanism have never be solve .
rb absence impair cell cycle exit and trigger death of some neuron , so differentiation defect may well be indirect .
indeed , we show that abnormality in both differentiation and light - evoke electrophysiological response in rb - deficient retinal cell be rescue when ectopic division and apoptosis be block specifically by delete e2f transcription factor ( e2f ) 1 .
however , comprehensive cell - type analysis of the rescue double - null retina expose cell - cycle – independent differentiation defect specifically in starburst amacrine cell ( sac ) , cholinergic interneurons critical in direction selectivity and developmentally important rhythmic burst .
typically , rb be think to block division by repress e2fs , but to promote differentiation by potentiate tissue - specific factor .
remarkably , however , rb promote sac differentiation by inhibit e2f3 activity .
two e2f3 isoforms exist , and we find both in the develop retina , although intriguingly they show distinct subcellular distribution .
e2f3b be think to mediate rb function in quiescent cell .
however , in what be to our knowledge the first work to dissect e2f isoform function in vivo we show that rb promote sac differentiation through e2f3a .
these data reveal a mechanism through which rb regulate neural differentiation directly , and , unexpectedly , it involve inhibition of e2f3a , not potentiation of tissue - specific factor .
author summary
the retinoblastoma protein ( rb ) , an important tumor suppressor , block division and death by inhibit the e2f transcription factor family .
in contrast , rb be think to promote differentiation by potentiate tissue - specific transcription factor , although differentiation defect in rb null cell could be an indirect consequence of e2f - drive division and death .
here , we resolve different mechanism by which rb control division , death , and differentiation in the retina .
remove e2f1 rescue aberrant division of differentiate rb - deficient retinal neuron , as well a death in cell prone to apoptosis , and restore both normal differentiation and function of major cell type , such a photoreceptors .
however , rb - deficient starburst amacrine neuron differentiate abnormally even when e2f1 be remove , provide an unequivocal example of a direct role for rb in neuronal differentiation .
rather than potentiate a cell - specific factor , rb promote starburst cell differentiation by inhibit another e2f , e2f3a .
this cell - cycle – independent activity broaden the importance of the rb – e2f pathway , and suggest we should reassess it role in the differentiation of other cell type .
introduction
the simplicity of the retina make it an ideal tissue to study neurogenesis .
it development proceed through three overlap step start with retinal progenitor cell ( rpc ) proliferation , follow by birth of post-mitotic retinal transition cell ( rtcs , also refer to a precursor ) , and end with terminal differentiation of seven major cell type ( figure 1a ) [ 1 ] .
rpcs be multipotent and exit the cell cycle to generate different rtcs at specific time period in development [ 1 ] .
this process of rtc “ birth ” require coupling of differentiation and cell cycle exit .
once bear , post-mitotic rtcs migrate and form different retinal layer .
rod and cone make up the out nuclear layer ( onl ) ; horizontal , bipolar , and amacrine cell , as well a müller glia cell body , reside in the inner nuclear layer ( inl ) ; and ganglion and displace amacrine cell form the ganglion cell layer ( gcl ) ( figure 1a ) .
the out plexiform layer ( opl ) and inner plexiform layer ( ipl ) house synaptic connection separate the onl / inl and inl / gcl , respectively .
figure 1
e2f1 , but not e2f2 or e2f3 , loss rescue ectopic division and cell death in the rb ko retina
( a ) retinal development .
at e11 the retina be a nbl of divide rpcs ( white circle , green nucleus ) .
rpc cell body oscillate along process a they progress through the cell cycle .
by p0 the nbl contain both rpcs and post-mitotic rtcs ( colour circle , red nucleus ) and be separate from the gcl by the ipl .
by p8 there be no rpcs , few rtcs , an opl , and more differentiate rod ( r ) and cone ( c ) in the onl ; horizontal ( h ) , bipolar ( b ) , müller ( m ) , and amacrine ( a ) cell in the inl ; and ganglion ( g ) and displace amacrine cell in the gcl .
development be complete by ~ p18 .
( b ) rb be think to regulate cell cycle and apoptosis by repress e2fs , but to promote differentiation by potentiate tissue - specific transcription factor .
however , rb loss could also perturb differentiation through the indirect effect of abnormal division or death , and / or through direct regulation of differentiation gene by e2fs .
( c and d ) horizontal retinal section of the indicate genotype and age be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , and ( c ) s - phase ( anti-brdu , red ) or ( d ) apoptosis ( tunel , red ) .
scale bar be 50 μm .
( e – g ) quantification of ( e ) all brdu + cell , ( f ) ectopic brdu + cell in gcl at p0 , and ( g ) total tunel + cell .
( h ) real - time rt - pcr analysis of e2fs and e2f target gene in p8 retina of the indicate genotype .
error bar represent sd of measurement from three animal , and asterisk indicate a significant difference between the wt and indicate genotype ( * , p < 0.05 ; ** ; p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test for [ e – g ] and fisher test for [ h ] ) .
the retinoblastoma protein ( rb ) be critical for cell cycle exit during retinal transition cell birth .
rb knockout ( ko ) rtcs continue to proliferate inappropriately and some ( rod , ganglion , and bipolar cell ) die by apoptosis [ 2 , 3 ] .
rb control the cell cycle by bind and inhibit e2f transcription factor ( e2fs ) ( figure 1b ) , first define a transcription factor that bind adenoviral e2 regulatory element and subsequently show to be critical cell cycle regulator [ 4 , 5 ] .
e2fs bind to dna a heterodimers with protein of the relate tfdp family .
e2f1 , e2f2 , and e2f3a be “ activating e2fs ” that be require for fibroblast division .
they be strong transcriptional activator that can drive g0 fibroblast into cycle , and be inhibit when bind to rb [ 4 , 5 ] .
ectopic division in rb ko embryo can be rescue to various extent in different tissue by knock out e2f1 , e2f2 , or e2f3 [ 6 – 9 ] , but which member ( s ) drive division in rb ko rtcs be unknown .
other member of the family , such a e2f4 and e2f5 , be know a “ repressive e2fs ” because they be weak activator and appear to be primarily involve in gene silencing in quiescent or differentiate cell .
activate e2fs may also promote apoptosis in the rb ko retina ( figure 1b ) .
originally , e2f1 be consider the primary pro-apoptotic member of the family [ 10 ] .
however , this view be reevaluate when it be show that either e2f1 or e2f3 deletion rescue apoptosis in the develop central nervous system ( cns ) of rb ko embryo [ 6 , 11 ] .
subsequently , cns apoptosis be show to be an indirect result of placental defect and probable hypoxia [ 12 – 14 ] .
indeed , e2f3 - induce apoptosis in fibroblast have recently be show to require e2f1 [ 15 ] .
thus , it be controversial whether e2f3 be require for apoptosis of any rb ko cell type .
determine which activate e2fs promote death in distinct rb ko tissue require conditional rather than germ line model of rb deletion to avoid secondary indirect effect ( such a hypoxia ) .
e2f family diversity be expand by e2f3 isoforms .
alternative promoter generate two form ( a and b ) that be identical except for distinct first exon [ 16 ] .
e2f3a be a strong activator , and , like other activate e2fs , it expression be induce when quiescent cell be stimulate to divide [ 16 ] .
e2f3b , like repressive e2fs , be present in both quiescent and divide cell , and in quiescent fibroblast it associate primarily with rb , suggest that it mediate repression [ 16 – 18 ] .
indeed , silence the cdkn2d ( p19arf ) locus in unstressed cell rely on e2f3b [ 19 ] .
other e2fs may also exist in isoforms since at least two mrna specie have be detect for e2f1 and e2f2 [ 16 ] .
the role of e2f isoforms in vivo be unknown .
e2fs be also regulate by subcellular localization .
although this feature have be best characterize for repressive e2fs [ 20 – 22 ] , it also affect activate e2fs [ 23 – 25 ] .
the distribution of e2f isoforms have never be assess .
it have be know for many year that rb loss perturb neuronal differentiation [ 26 – 29 ] .
however , prior work could not exclude the possibility that differentiation defect be simply an indirect consequence of abnormal division and death .
if rb do regulate differentiation directly it be unclear whether it do so in all or a subset of neuron .
moreover , the mechanism have never be solve .
in other cell type where rb may promote differentiation directly , such a muscle and bone , it seem to do so through e2f - independent mean by potentiate tissue - specific transcription factor ( figure 1b ) [ 30 – 33 ] .
in the retina , others have note abnormally shape rb ko rod and have suggest rb may directly promote their morphogenesis by activate retina - specific factor [ 29 ] .
however , differentiation defect in any rb ko neuron could be an indirect effect of ectopic division and / or apoptosis ( figure 1b ) .
thus , it be critical to study differentiation of rb ko cell in the absence of ectopic proliferation and death .
here , we establish that rb suppress rtc division and death by inhibit e2f1 , not e2f2 or e2f3 .
when these defect be rescue , most retinal neuron , include rod , survive , differentiate , and function normally .
thus , unexpectedly , retina - specific differentiation factor function independently of rb .
however , comprehensive assessment of the rb / e2f1 double - null rescue retina reveal a differentiation defect in cholinergic starburst amacrine cell ( sac ) .
recent breakthrough have reveal that these interneurons be critical for direction selectivity and developmentally important rhythmic burst [ 34 – 36 ] .
however , their differentiation be poorly understand .
contrary to the prevail view that rb promote differentiation through e2f - independent tissue - specific transcription factor , we show that rb facilitate sac development through e2f3 .
defect in rb null sac correlate with specific e2f3 expression in these cell , and e2f3 expression be absent in neuron that differentiate without rb .
e2f3 be also present in a specific subset of other cns neuron , imply that this may be a general mechanism by which rb facilitate neurogenesis .
to define the mechanism in even more detail , we determine which e2f3 isoform rb target to control sac differentiation .
e2f3b mediate rb function in quiescent fibroblast [ 19 ] , yet no prior study to our knowledge have dissect e2f3a or e2f3b function in vivo .
use an isoform - specific null mouse we show that rb drive sac differentiation through e2f3a .
thus , independent of e2f1 - mediate effect on division and death , rb do regulate neuronal differentiation , but only in specific neuron and , unexpectedly , through e2f3a , not tissue - specific differentiation factor .
result
rb regulate division and death through e2f1
we use the α - cre transgene to delete floxed rb exon 19 at embryonic day ( e ) 10 in peripheral retina [ 2 ] .
rbloxp / loxp ; α - cre mouse be breed with strain lack e2f1 or e2f2 in the germ line , or a strain carry a floxed e2f3 allele [ 5 ] .
rbloxp / loxp ; e2f1 + / − and rbloxp / loxp ; e2f1 + / − ; α - cre mouse be breed to produce rbloxp / loxp ; e2f1 − / − ; α - cre mouse at a frequency of 1 / 8 and littermate control at the same or high ( 1 / 4 ) frequency .
for simplicity we will refer to the rbloxp / loxp ; e2f1 − / − ; α - cre peripheral retina a the rb / e2f1 double knockout ( dko ) retina .
similar strategy be employ in the case of e2f2 or e2f3 .
cre - mediate excision of rb and e2f3 allele in the retina be confirm by pcr a describe previously [ 2 , 5 ] .
to measure ectopic cell division , mouse be pulse - label with bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) 2 h before sacrifice and the peripheral retina analyze for brdu incorporation by immunofluorescence .
a report before [ 2 , 3 ] , rb ko retina exhibit both spatial and temporal ectopic dna synthesis ( figure 1c and s1a ) .
this be easily detect at e14 , e16 , and postnatal day ( p ) 0 in the inner retina where abnormal brdu + ganglion and amacrine rtcs be locate , or on the outermost region of the p0 retina , where brdu + photoreceptor rtcs reside ( figure s1a and s2 , arrow ) [ 2 ] .
ectopic rtc division in rb ko retina be even more obvious at p8 or p18 , when division be complete in wild - type ( wt ) retina ( figure 1c and s1a ) .
strikingly , the ectopically position s - phase cell at e14 , e16 , and p0 and all the abnormal division at p8 and p18 be completely suppress in the rb / e2f1 dko retina ( figure 1c , 1e , 1f , s1a , and s2 ) .
in contrast , deletion of e2f2 or e2f3 have no effect at any stage of development .
analysis of mitotic cell with anti–phosphohistone 3 ( ph3 ) – specific antibody confirm that loss of e2f1 , but not e2f2 or e2f3 , suppress ectopic division ( figure s3 ) .
delete one e2f1 allele partially suppress ectopic s - phase and mitosis in rb ko rtcs ( figure 1c , 1e , 1f , s1a , s2 , and s3 ) , suggest that e2f1 drive ectopic division in rb ko rtcs in a dose - dependent fashion .
these data contrast with previous finding in the lens and cns of rb ko embryo , where deletion of any activate e2f suppress ectopic division to some extent [ 6 – 9 ] .
loss of rb in the retina result in considerable rtc apoptosis , eliminate most bipolar and ganglion cell as well a many rod ( figure 2a – 2d ) [ 2 , 3 ] .
the loss of rb ko rod be evident from the thin onl , and the death of these cell as well a bipolar and ganglion neuron can be detect directly by double label for apoptotic and cell - type - specific marker [ 2 ] ( m. p. and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
loss of peripheral rb ko ganglion cell be also evident from thin of the optic nerve ( d. c. and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
delete e2f1 , but not e2f2 or e2f3 , block this ectopic cell death in a dose - dependent fashion ( figure 1d , 1g , and s1b ) .
figure 2
e2f1 deletion rescue ganglion , rod , and bipolar cell in the rb ko retina
( a ) horizontal retinal section from mouse of the indicate age and genotype be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) and marker that detect ganglion cell ( pou4f2 , red ) , rod and cone ( sag [ rod arrestin ] , green ) , and rod bipolar cell ( prkca , green , and cabp5 , red ) .
scale bar be 50 μm .
( b ) quantification of pou4f2 + ganglion cell .
( c ) quantification of prkca + and cabp5 + bipolar cell .
( d ) thickness of the onl , which represent the number of rod .
error bar represent sd of measurement from three animal , and asterisk indicate a significant difference between retina of wt and the indicate genotype , unless indicate otherwise by connect line ( * , p < 0.05 ; ** ; p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test ) .
( e and f ) erg be record from the indicate genotype under dark - adapt ( scotopic ) condition , and ( e ) intensity series and ( f ) b - wave amplitude a a function of the logarithm of the flash intensity be determine .
( f ) far illustrate that the relative influence of the mutation on the photoreceptors ( indicate by the saturate a - wave amplitude , right graph ) be not substantially different from their effect on the b - wave response ( dominate by the bipolars , left graph ) at the same intensity of 10 cd · s / m2 .
to investigate the molecular mechanism that underlie the unique role of e2f1 , we assess the expression of known e2f target as well a other gene that regulate the cell cycle and apoptosis .
numerous positive and negative cell cycle and apoptotic regulator be up - regulate in the rb ko retina ( figure 1h ) .
among the e2f family , e2f1 , e2f2 , e2f3a , and e2f7 be induce follow rb loss , but e2f3b , e2f4 , and e2f5 be unaffected .
consistent with the brdu and terminal dutp nick - end labelling ( tunel ) analysis , e2f1 deletion specifically reverse all these molecular defect , but e2f3 deletion have no effect ( figure 1h ) .
normal differentiation in the rb / e2f1 dko retina
because e2f1 deletion block abnormal division and death in the rb ko retina , the rb / e2f1 dko retina provide a unique opportunity to evaluate whether rb control differentiation independent of cell cycle effect .
the rb / e2f1 dko retina have many sag + ( s - antigen / rod arrestin ) photoreceptors , pou4f2 + ( brn3b ) ganglion cell , and numerous prkca + / cabp5 + bipolar neuron ( figure 2a – 2d ) .
in contrast , there be no such rescue of cell type in rb / e2f2 or rb / e2f3 dko retina ( figure s4 ) .
analysis with general neuronal marker mtap2 ( map2 ) and snap25 , as well a other marker express in bipolar cell ( chx10 , rcvrn , vsx1 , tacr3 , and atp2b1 ) and rod photoreceptors ( rho and rcvrn ) confirm rescue of the rb / e2f1 dko retina ( table s1 ) .
moreover , neuron exhibit the same complex morphology a in wt retina .
bipolar cell body be locate in the inl and have ascend and descend process end in the opl and ipl , respectively ( figure 2a ) .
in addition , the rb / e2f1 dko retina have a healthy appear onl consist of morphologically normal rod with descend process end in the opl and ascend process that terminate in inner and out segment ( figure 2a ) .
it be suggest that rb might regulate photoreceptor differentiation , possibly through rod - specific transcription factor ( figure 1b ) [ 29 ] .
however , if rb do regulate photoreceptor differentiation , it do so by inhibit e2f1 , not by potentiate rod differentiation factor , such a otx2 , crx , or nrl .
it be impossible to tell whether e2f1 perturbs differentiation directly , by affect the expression of gene that modulate maturation , and / or indirectly through it effect on proliferation and survival ( figure 1b ) .
a with ectopic division and apoptosis ( figure 1c and 1d ) , the rescue of rb ko retinal bipolar , ganglion , and rod cell be dependent on e2f1 dose ( figure 2a – 2d ) .
separate from it role in drive ectopic division of rb ko rtcs , e2f1 also promote normal rpc division since in it absence rpc proliferation drop ~ 2 - fold ( d. c. and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
this modest reduction of rpc number in the absence of e2f1 account for the slight reduction in the number of ganglion cell at p0 , in the number of bipolar cell at p18 or p30 , and in the thickness of the onl at p18 or p30 in the e2f1 ko and rb / e2f1 dko retina ( figure 2b – 2d ) .
the morphology of e2f1 ko neuron be wt ( figure 2a ) .
despite a slight drop in absolute cell number , the proportion of rb / e2f1 dko and e2f1 ko bipolar cell be the same a wt ( data not show ) .
slightly reduce cell number be not due to residual rtc death since we have not observe ectopic apoptosis at any embryonic or postnatal stage in the develop rb / e2f1 dko retina ( figure 1d , 1g , and s2 ) .
moreover , delete ccnd1 , which act upstream of rb protein , also reduce rpc number , but do not suppress any defect in the rb ko retina ( d. c. and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
thus , slightly reduced rpc division and dramatic rescue of severe defect in rb ko rtcs be distinct effect stem from the deletion of e2f1 .
normal function of the rb / e2f1 dko retina
the discovery that e2f1 loss rescue even the morphology of rb ko neuron be surprising because rb be think to regulate differentiation primarily through e2f - independent pathway [ 30 – 33 ] .
however , normal morphology may not equate to completely normal differentiation .
thus , we compare the electroretinogram ( erg ) of adult wt ( α - cre ) , e2f1 − / − , α - cre ; rbloxp / loxp , and α - cre ; rbloxp / loxp ; e2f1 − / − mouse .
erg functionally assess visual signalling in the mammalian retina from photoreceptors to amacrine cell ( but usually not gangion cell ) , and be dominate by rod and cone bipolar cell .
typically , an erg signal begin with a negative deflection initiate by the photoreceptors ( the a - wave ) , which be terminate by a large positive deflection due to the activation of on bipolar cell ( the b - wave ) .
response to dim light in dark - adapt ( scotopic ) condition specifically assess the rod system , and be defective in the rb ko retina ( figure 2e ) .
the substantial reduction of both a - and b - wave be consistent with rod and bipolar cell apoptosis [ 2 ] .
the sensitivity of the residual response appear unchanged , suggest it arise from the cre - negative portion of the retina .
response be about the same in the wt and e2f1 ko retina , and , most importantly , also the rb / e2f1 dko response median lay at the low end of the normal range for most intensity ( figure 2f ) .
thus , e2f1 deletion almost completely rescue the rod system in the rb ko retina .
light - adapt ( photopic ) recording to specifically assess the cone system yield comparable result .
cone represent only 3 % of photoreceptors and , unlike rod , develop without rb , but they require rod for survival , and in the rb ko retina , they have abnormal morphology and their synaptic target , bipolar cell , be much depleted [ 2 ] .
the photopic response , a product of cone and mainly bipolar activity , be much reduce by rb loss , but be rescue considerably in the rb / e2f1 dko retina ( figure s5 ) .
again , the median amplitude lay at the low end of the e2f1 ko range .
the photopic response in e2f1 ko mouse be slightly reduce relative to wt ( figure s5b ) , possibly because e2f1 be require for maximal expansion of embryonic rpcs , and the e2f1 ko retina have , a note earlier , slightly few cell than the wt retina , although cell type proportion be unaffected ( d. c. and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
thus , marginally subnormal photopic response in the rb / e2f1 dko retina can be attribute to both a reduction of cone number in e2f1 ko mouse alone , and a “ genuine ” slight reduction in cone function attributable to rb loss relative to wt .
this slight effect may relate to a true differentiation defect in a subset of amacrine cell discuss below .
this discussion should not obscure the major outcome that e2f1 deletion recover most of the erg response .
thus , e2f1 deletion not only rescue morphology but also both rod and cone system function in the rb ko retina .
abnormal sac differentiation independent of cell cycle and survival defect
erg primarily assess photoreceptor and bipolar cell function , but may miss differentiation defect in other cell .
to test for subtle difference we stain the rb / e2f1 dko retina with 43 marker ( table s1 ) .
thirty - two protein display identical pattern in wt , e2f1 ko , and rb / e2f1 dko retina ( table s1 ) .
the other 11 marker reveal a cell - cycle – and apoptosis - independent differentiation defect in sac .
we first study calb2 ( calretinin ) , which mark a subset of amacrine and ganglion cell body as well a three track correspond to their process in the ipl ( figure 3a ) .
normal calb2 staining be see in the e2f1 ko ipl ( data not show ) .
however , only one calb2 + track be evident in the rb ko ipl , and this defect be not rescue in the rb / e2f1 dko retina ( figure 3a ) .
we quantify calb2 + cell body in the rb ko inl ( correspond to amacrine cell staining only ) and observe a reduction from p8 onwards ( figure 3c and s6 ) .
figure 3
differentiation defect in rb ko sac
( a ) p18 horizontal section of wt , rb ko , and rb / e2f1 dko retina be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , calb2 ( green ) , and slc18a3 ( red ) .
( b ) confocal image of p30 horizontal section of wt and rb ko retina be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , chat and slc18a3 ( both red ) , and camk2a ( green ) .
in the rb ko section , the red stain be chat only , a slc18a3 be miss ( see [ a ] ) .
( c ) quantification of dense calb2 + cell body in the inl , total slc18a3 + cell body , and camk2a + cell body in the inl .
error bar represent sd of measurement from three animal , and asterisk indicate significant difference between retina of wt and the indicate genotype ( * , p < 0.05 ; ** ; p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test ) .
scale bar be 50 μm in ( a ) and 20 μm in ( b ) .
of the three calb2 + track in the ipl , the two out track be from sac , name after their extensive dendritic - tree - like morphology [ 37 ] .
sac be cholinergic , represent ~ 5.2 % of amacrine neuron [ 38 ] , and be critical for both direction selectivity [ 34 , 35 ] and spontaneous rhythmic activity that occur during normal retinal development [ 36 ] .
sac in the inl synapse in the off layer of the ipl that respond to decrease light , while displace sac in the gcl have process that synapse in the nearby on layer of the ipl that respond to increase light ( review in [ 39 ] ) .
mature sac process stain specifically for slc18a3 ( vesicular acetyl choline transporter , vacht ) [ 37 ] , and , significantly , this marker be absent in the peripheral rb ko or rb / e2f1 dko p18 retina ( figure 3a and s7b ) .
chat , express from the same locus , be also sac specific , but mark both cell body and process of mature sac [ 37 ] .
chat be see in few cell in the mature rb ko retina , and be present in the soma but absent from process ( figure 3b ) .
we obtain similar result for sv2c , a synaptic vesicle protein find in sac [ 40 ] ; kcnc1b and kcnc2 , potassium channel express on sac soma and dendrites as well a a very small number of ganglion cell [ 41 ] ; gamma - aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) , an inhibitory neurotransmitter present in about half of amacrine cell include sac , as well a horizontal and some bipolar neuron [ 37 ] ; and calb1 ( calbindin ) , which be express in many amacrine cell and label sac process faintly ( figure s7a and s7b ; table s1 ; and data not show ) .
finally , we also examine the effect of rb deletion on sac differentiation use a chx10 - cre transgene that be express in a mosaic pattern across the retina , generate patch of cre - express cell [ 42 ] .
consistent with the mosaic deletion pattern , we observe markedly reduce chat / slc18a3 staining in the ipl of chx10 - cre ; rbloxp / loxp retina compare to wt ( figure s7c ) .
together , these result suggest a role for rb in sac differentiation .
the above finding could indicate a defect in sac specification , sac survival , or the level and / or transport of the marker describe above .
camk2a mark both sac and ganglion cell [ 37 ] , but because ganglion cell be eliminate in the rb ko retina , camk2a be a specific sac marker in this context .
importantly , camk2a + track and dendrite be present in both the wt and rb ko retina ( figure 3b ) , and the number of camk2a + soma be similar in wt and rb ko retina at p30 and beyond , although few cell stain in rb ko retina at p18 , suggest a delay in it appearance ( figure 3c and s6b ) .
thus , rb be not require for sac survival or for process outgrowth , but rather it seem to regulate the expression and / or stability of calb2 , calb1 , chat , slc18a3 , sv2c , kcnc1b , kcnc2 , and gaba in sac , but leave camk2a expression virtually unaffected .
the presence of chat in some cell body but never in process ( figure 3b ) also suggest a transport defect .
the developmental pattern of slc18a3 expression also support this notion .
in mature wt sac slc18a3 be only in process , but in early postnatal sac , it be find in the cell body , and move into emerge process at approximately p4 – p6 .
a note above , slc18a3 be absent at p18 in the rb ko retina ( figure 3a ) ; at p4 or p5 it be in cell body , yet be rarely present in rb ko process ( figure 4a and s6 ) .
slc18a3 become virtually undetectable in rb ko sac by p8 ( figure 3c and s6c ) .
these data suggest that rb affect both the synthesis / stability and transport of sac marker .
figure 4
e2f3 loss rescue differentiation of rb ko sac
( a ) horizontal retinal section of the indicate age and genotype be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , mitosis marker ph3 ( green ) , and slc18a3 ( red ) , which mark sac soma at early stage and process from ~ p5 onwards .
arrow show mitotic ph3 + nucleus in rb ko , rb / e2f2 dko , and rb / e2f3 dko retina .
e2f1 loss rescue the ectopic mitosis and cell death defect , but not the sac defect .
e2f2 loss have no effect .
e2f3 loss do not rescue the ectopic mitosis and cell loss defect , but rescue the sac defect .
inactivate e2f1 and e2f3 together rescue the ectopic mitosis , cell death , and sac defect .
( b ) the fraction of camk2a + cell that be chat + and slc18a3 + in the p30 retina .
( c ) horizontal p5 retinal section be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , slc18a3 ( green ) , and isl1 ( red ) .
arrow show double - label isl1 + / slc18a3 + cell in the inner inl .
( d ) horizontal p0 retinal section of the indicate genotype be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , cell division marker mki67 ( green ) , and isl1 ( red ) .
arrow show double - label divide sac .
( e ) the fraction of isl1 + cell in the inner nbl ( inbl ) of p0 retina that be divide ( mki67 + ) .
error bar represent sd of measurement from three animal , and asterisk indicate significant difference between retina of wt and the indicate genotype ( * , p < 0.05 ; ** ; p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test ) .
scale bar in ( a ) , ( c ) , and ( d ) be 50 μm .
rb regulate sac differentiation through e2f3
rb bind more than 100 protein [ 43 ] and in some non-neuronal cell , such a skeletal muscle , adipocytes , and bone , rb be think to bind and potentiate tissue - specific transcription factor that promote differentiation [ 31 – 33 ] .
thus , we expect that rb might interact with retina - specific factor to facilitate sac differentiation .
a direct role for e2f in mediate rb - dependent differentiation defect ( independent of cell cycle or death defect ) have to our knowledge not be describe , but because e2f can regulate some differentiation gene [ 44 – 48 ] , we first test whether e2f2 or e2f3 might perturb rb ko sac maturation .
at multiple time point , e2f1 deletion suppress ectopic mitosis ( ph3 + cell ) , but do not reverse the sac defect , and e2f2 deletion have no effect on either defect ( figure 4a ) .
remarkably , although e2f3 deletion do not reverse ectopic mitosis , it rescue calb2 , slc18a3 , chat , gaba , kcnc1b , kcnc2 , and sv2c staining at multiple time ( figure 4a and data not show ) .
rb / e2f3 dko sac track be slightly more disorder than in wt retina , most likely because of the absence of synaptic partner cell , which be kill by e2f1 .
indeed , this minor defect be rescue in the rb / e2f1 / e2f3 triple knockout retina , where bipolar and ganglion cell death be rescue and sac differentiation be restore ( figure 4a ) .
e2f3 deletion alone do not affect sac differentiation ( figure 4a ) ; thus , it be unleash e2f3 activity that be detrimental , and the critical role for rb be to inhibit e2f3 .
we quantify the fraction of camk2a + sac in different genotype and find that 60 % of wt p30 camk2a + cell express chat and slc18a3 , which drop to only 5.6 % in the rb ko retina , and remain low at 3.7 % in the rb / e2f1 dko retina , but rise to 91 % in the rb / e2f3 dko retina ( figure 4b ) .
the latter fraction be high than wt because ganglion cell , which normally make up ~ 40 % of camk2a + cell , be kill by apoptosis .
to quantify the effect of different e2fs on ectopic division specifically in sac , we exploit isl1 ( islet1 ) .
this marker be express in both sac and ganglion cell , thus isl1 + cell in the inl be exclusively sac [ 49 ] .
we find that 98.2 % ± 1.8 % of isl1 + cell in the form inner inl at p5 be also slc18a3 + , confirm that isl1 be an excellent sac marker ( figure 4c ) .
moreover , isl1 , unlike slc18a3 , be nuclear , which facilitate scoring of isl1 + / mki67 + cell .
it be also express earlier than slc18a3 , permit analysis of sac soon after their birth at ~ e15 ; thus , we could study retina at p0 , a time when ectopic division be high in the inner retina and prior to rb - independent cell cycle exit associate with terminal differentiation [ 2 ] .
at p0 , no wt isl1 + cell in the inner neuroblastic layer ( nbl ) ( which be the future inl ) be divide , but 57 ± 14 isl1 + / mki67 + cell be detect in the rb ko inner nbl ( figure 4d ) .
indeed , about one - third of all isl1 + cell in the entire inner nbl be divide in the rb ko retina , or ~ 50 % in the periphery where cre be express ( figure 4e and data not show ) .
this defect be suppress in the rb / e2f1 dko retina , where we detect only 1 ± 1 dividing sac , but not the rb / e2f3 dko retina , where there be 53 ± 8 divide sac ( figure 4d and 4e ) .
we observe similar effect at p0 with calb2 , which mark newborn sac and other amacrine cell ( data not show ) .
thus , in rb ko sac , e2f1 deletion suppress ectopic division but not aberrant differentiation , whereas e2f3 deletion suppress aberrant differentiation but not ectopic division .
specific expression of e2f3 in sac and other subset of cns neuron
the unique effect of e2f3 in disrupt the differentiation of sac but not other retinal neuron might be due to cell - type - specific expression or cell - type - specific activity of e2f3 .
determine between these two possibility be not easy , a e2f immunostaining in mouse tissue be problematic .
we do not solve this issue for e2f1 or e2f2 , but use a modify protocol [ 50 ] to successfully track e2f3 expression ( figure 5 ) .
at p0 , e2f3 be detect in rpcs , consistent with a putative role in normal proliferation ( figure 5a ) .
the signal be specific a it be absent in the e2f3 ko peripheral retina ( figure 5a ) .
a the retina differentiate and rpc division diminish , the number of e2f3 + cell also drop , and by p8 , when division be virtually over , only a subset of post-mitotic cell in the inner retina express e2f3 ( figure 5a ) .
by p18 , e2f3 be also detect in two track in the ipl ( figure 5a and 5b ) , reminiscent of sac marker such a chat and slc18a3 ( c.f. figure 3 and 4 ) .
this cytoplasmic e2f3 staining be also specific , a it be absent in the e2f3 ko peripheral retina of α - cre ; e2f3loxp / loxp mouse ( figure 5a ) .
indeed , double labelling with e2f3 ( red ) and chat plus slc18a3 ( green ) confirm that e2f3 be present in both sac soma and dendrite ( figure 5b ) .
rb protein be also detect in the inner retina ( figure 5a ) , and show a similar distribution a e2f3 in sac ( figure 5b ) , and be also present in mature ganglion cell and müller cell a report [ 51 ] .
rb staining in sac process be specific a it be absent in the peripheral retina of αcre ; rbloxp / loxp mouse ( figure 5a ) .
these data suggest that rb and e2f3 colocalize in sac and that e2f3 trigger defect in sac differentiation because it be specifically express in these retinal neuron .
figure 5
e2f3 and rb expression in sac
( a ) left panel : horizontal p0 , p8 , and p18 retinal section of the indicate genotype be stain for e2f3 ( red ) and dapi ( blue ) .
the arrow indicate the junction between the e2f3 null peripheral and wt central p0 retina .
note the absence of e2f3 protein in the peripheral e2f3 ko rpcs at p0 and in peripheral inner retinal neuron at p18 .
far right panel : p18 retinal section of the indicate genotype be stain for rb ( red ) and dapi ( blue ) .
note the absence of rb protein in the peripheral rb ko inner retinal neuron .
( b ) wt p18 retinal section be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , e2f3 ( red ) or rb ( red ) , and chat plus slc18a3 ( green ) .
arrow indicate double - label soma .
note that the ipl process be also double - label .
scale bar be 50 μm .
we also find that e2f3 be present in a specific subset of mature neuron in various brain region ( data not show ) .
for example , in the p20 amygdala , e2f3 colocalized with the general neuronal marker mtap2 and mecp2 [ 52 ] , but not with calb2 , which mark a subset of neuron , or with the glial marker gfap ( data not show ) .
unlike in retinal sac , e2f3 be not coexpressed in chat + or slc18a3 + cholinergic neuron locate in various region of the brain and spinal cord ( data not show ) .
in agreement , we could not detect defect in cholinergic rb ko neuron in the develop forebrain , but other rb ko neuron in this region show differentiation defect that be rescue by delete e2f3 [ 53 ] .
together , these result suggest that the common mechanism by which rb promote neural differentiation be through e2f3 inhibition .
distinct localization of e2f3 isoforms
a note above , e2f3 and rb staining in sac be both nuclear and cytoplasmic ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
the antibody that work in immunostaining recognize a c - terminal region and thus , do not distinguish a / b isoforms .
to our knowledge , the subcellular location of e2f3 isoforms have not be determine in any cell type .
to verify the dual location of e2f3 and to determine which isoforms be present in retina , we analyze nuclear and cytoplasmic fraction by western blot at different time during development .
analysis with the pan-e2f3 antibody ( sc - 878 , santa cruz biotechnology ) detect a 55 - kd e2f3a specie and a 40 - kd e2f3b polypeptide ( figure 6 ) .
to confirm that the upper specie in our retinal lysates be e2f3a , we exploit novel mouse that lack e2f3 exon 1a and thus express e2f3b exclusively ( r. o. and g. l. , unpublished data ) .
the genotyping strategy be discuss in detail later and be outline in figure 7a .
western analysis confirm that the upper band be absent in e2f3a − / − mouse ( figure 6 and s8 ) .
consistent with the drop in e2f3 - express cell during wt retinal maturation ( figure 5a ) , the total amount of e2f3a be less at p18 compare to p0 ( figure 6 ) .
e2f3b be present in similar amount at both time point .
at p0 and p18 , e2f3a be present in both nuclear and cytoplasmic fraction , but in marked contrast , e2f3b be exclusively nuclear at both time ( figure 6 ) .
two closely migrate e2f3a band be detect , more clearly evident at p18 , of which the faster migrate specie be dominant in nuclear and the slow specie be dominant in cytoplasm ( figure 6 ) .
the identity of both a e2f3a specie be confirm by their absence in the p18 e2f3a ko retina ( figure s8 ) .
analysis of pou4f2 , a nuclear transcription factor express in ganglion cell , show that nuclear protein have not contaminate the cytoplasmic fraction , and analysis of slc18a3 , a cytoplasmic sac marker , confirm that the reverse have also not occur ( figure 6 ) .
these data show , to our knowledge for the first time , that e2f3a and e2f3b exhibit distinct pattern of subcellular distribution , and raise the possibility that e2f3a localization may be regulate by as yet unknown post-translational modification .
figure 6
subcellular distribution of e2f3 isoforms and other cell cycle protein in the develop retina
nuclear and cytoplasmic extract from an equivalent number of retinal cell from mouse of the indicate genotype and age be analyze by western blotting to detect the indicate protein .
lysate from e2f3a − / − mouse be use a a control to confirm the location of e2f3a protein .
c , cytoplasmic extract ; n , nuclear extract .
figure 7
the e2f3a isoform drive the differentiation defect in rb ko sac
( a ) schematic diagram of the mouse wt , e2f3a − / − , and the cre - recombine floxed e2f3 locus ( indicate here a e2f3 − / − for simplicity ) .
e2f3a − / − mouse lack most of e2f3 exon 1a and part of intron 1a ( red dot box ) .
arrow indicate pcr primer .
genotyping of an e2f3a + / − mouse be show on the right .
( b ) rt - pcr detection of e2f3a and e2f3b mrna in the retina .
the sequence of primer be 1af ( 5 ′ - gcctctacaccacgccacaag - 3 ′ ) , 1bf ( 5 ′ - cggaaatgcccttacagc - 3 ′ ) , and 4r ( 5 ′ - ctcagtcacttctttggacag - 3 ′ ) .
wt retina express both e2f3a and e2f3b mrna .
a expect , e2f3a − / − retina lack e2f3a mrna and still express e2f3b mrna .
e2f3 − / − retina lack full - length e2f3a and e2f3b mrna , and instead express a truncate mrna lack exon 3 .
( c ) real - time rt - pcr analysis of e2f gene in p8 retina of the indicate genotype .
error bar represent sd of measurement from three animal , and asterisk indicate a significant difference between wt and the indicate genotype ( * , p < 0.05 ; ** ; p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test ) .
( d ) rescue of rb ko sac by e2f3a deletion .
horizontal retinal section of the indicate genotype and age be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , m - phase ( ph3 , green ) , and the sac marker slc18a3 ( red ) .
e2f3a deletion do not suppress ectopic division , but rescue the sac defect .
scale bar be 50 μm .
m , molecular size marker .
we also examine the distribution of other cell cycle regulator during retinal development .
like e2f3a , rb be present in both the wt cytoplasm and nucleus at p0 , but at p18 , when the level of rb have increase , it be primarily nuclear ( figure 6 ) .
a very faint cytoplasmic rb signal be evident at p18 , which be consistent with rb staining of sac process ( figure 5b ) , and with the very small proportion of sac in the retina [ 38 ] .
e2f1 be also detect in both nuclear and cytoplasmic fraction , although unlike e2f3a it be predominantly nuclear both at p0 and p18 ( figure 6 ) .
the e2f dimerization partner , tfdp1 , which lack a nuclear localization signal [ 54 ] , be primarily cytoplasmic at both p0 and p18 , and the cdk inhibitor cdkn1a and cdkn1b show a similar pattern of distribution ( figure 6 ) .
thus , among the cell cycle regulator we examine , most show bivalent distribution , and e2f3b be unusual in it solely nuclear compartmentalization .
rb regulate sac differentiation through e2f3a
to test which e2f3 isoform be responsible for aberrant rb ko sac differentiation we exploit e2f3a − / − mouse ( figure 7a ) .
the genotyping strategy outline in figure 7a be use to distinguish the e2f3a , wt , and null allele .
reverse transcriptase pcr ( rt - pcr ) confirm the presence of both e2f3a and e2f3b rna specie in the develop wt retina , and the specific absence of e2f3a rna in the e2f3a − / − retina ( figure 7b ) .
e2f3a protein be absent in e2f3a − / − retinal lysate ( figure 6 and s8 ) .
importantly , the level of e2f3b message be similar in the rb ko and rb / e2f3a dko retina , rule out the possibility that any effect of e2f3a deletion we might observe be due to down - regulation of e2f3b ( figure 7c ) .
also , the level of other e2fs be the same in the rb ko , rb / e2f3 dko , and rb / e2f3a dko retina , rule out any cross - regulatory effect ( figure 7c ) [ 55 ] .
e2f3a can trigger cell cycle induction , but because sac defect be not link to cell cycle perturbation ( figure 3a and 4 ) , and in view of the predominant association between e2f3b and rb in quiescent cell [ 16 , 19 ] , we suspect that e2f3b may perturb differentiation in rb ko sac .
unexpectedly , however , e2f3a deletion suppress the rb ko sac defect ( figure 7d ) .
thus , separate from it role in cell cycle control , rb regulation of e2f3a be critical to ensure proper neuronal differentiation .
discussion
rb control retinal cell division and death through e2f1
work in the early 1990s show that rb loss trigger defect in neuronal cell cycle exit , survival , and differentiation [ 26 – 28 ] .
much of the death be an indirect consequence of probable hypoxia link to placental defect [ 12 – 14 ] .
however , target ko and chimeric study reveal that rb autonomously promote cell cycle exit in newborn neuron , and be require for survival of a subset of neuron , particularly in the retina [ 2 , 3 , 13 , 14 , 56 – 59 ] .
however , whether rb also regulate differentiation be obscure by potentially indirect effect of ectopic division and death .
moreover , a mechanism though which rb may regulate neuronal maturation have not be elucidate .
here , delete e2f1 specifically rescue ectopic division and death in the rb ko retina .
importantly , major rb / e2f1 dko neuron differentiate normally , and erg reveal the rescue of rod - and cone - mediate function , implicate a regular signal flow from photoreceptors to bipolar and amacrine cell .
division and death gene be induce in rb ko cell , and delete e2f1 , but not e2f2 or e2f3 , reverse these molecular event .
e2f1 may also regulate differentiation target , but whether this contribute to defect in retinal cell maturation be impossible to separate from potentially indirect consequence of deregulate division and death .
in any case , it be clear that in most retinal cell , include photoreceptors [ 29 ] , transcription factor that promote differentiation function independently of rb .
we have also find that e2f1 deletion rescue cell - autonomous ectopic division , death , and differentiation defect in sporadic rb ko clone generate use a cre retrovirus vector ( m. p. and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
these data be consistent with the observation that e2f1 overexpression in newborn photoreceptors drive ectopic division and apoptosis [ 60 ] , and add to the grow evidence indicate that e2f1 be the major , and perhaps only , member of the three activate e2fs require to induce apoptosis in rb ko cell [ 10 , 15 ] .
thus , deregulate e2f1 activity in the retina , whether result from the inactivation of rb or from overexpression , promote unscheduled cell division and trigger apoptosis in susceptible rtcs .
e2f1 , rather than other e2fs , may be a potential target for novel therapeutic to prevent retinoblastoma in rb1 + / − human .
our erg study reveal rescue of the rb ko rod – bipolar system , and almost complete restoration of the cone – bipolar system follow e2f1 deletion .
there be a slightly low response in the rb / e2f1 dko retina relative to the e2f1 ko control retina .
this difference might reflect a role for rb in the development of cone , bipolar cell , or other cell that may contribute to the photopic erg , include potentially sac , which do have a serious defect in the rb / e2f1 dko retina .
rb control sac differentiation through e2f3a
comprehensive marker analysis reveal that , in striking contrast to other retinal neuron , e2f1 deletion do not suppress defect in rb ko cholinergic sac .
instead , we observe e2f1 - independent defect in the synthesis and transport of a large cohort of sac protein .
these data expand insight into the development of these important interneurons , but more critically , provide to our knowledge the first unambiguous evidence that rb regulate neurogenesis beyond terminal mitosis .
rb bind more than 100 factor [ 43 ] , and in several non-neuronal cell , such a skeletal muscle , adipocytes , and bone , it bind and potentiate tissue - specific transcription factor that promote differentiation [ 31 – 33 ] .
the idea that rb promote muscle differentiation by potentiate myod1 activity be contest [ 61 ] , and other mechanism propose [ 62 , 63 ] , but not involve e2f repression .
strikingly , however , we discover that rb promote sac differentiation through e2f3 ( figure 8 ) .
figure 8
rb regulate distinct process through e2f1 and e2f3a
red text and arrow indicate rb - dependent event .
black text and arrow indicate event for which there be no direct evidence of rb involvement .
rb do not appear to temper rpc expansion and be not require for differentiation of rpcs into rtcs , but be essential to couple rtc birth to terminal mitosis , thus lock them out of cycle .
rb perform this function by inhibit e2f1 .
rb be also require for sac differentiation , and in this case , act by inhibit e2f3a .
there be no direct evidence that rb be require for terminal differentiation of other cell type .
colour code and abbreviation a in figure 1a .
rb regulation of sac differentiation through e2f3 be independent of it role in control division or death : e2f3 deletion rescue rb ko sac defect but do not suppress aberrant proliferation or death , whereas e2f1 deletion reverse abnormal proliferation and death but do not rescue sac differentiation .
double labelling confirm that e2f1 but not e2f3 deletion reverse rb ko sac division .
moreover , delete e2f1 , but not e2f3 , reverse deregulate expression of cell cycle and apoptotic gene in the rb ko retina .
e2f3 be express in a subset of cns neuron ( this work ) and drive specific cell - cycle – independent defect in rb ko forebrain neuron [ 53 ] .
thus , e2f3 inhibition be the first , and may be the only , mechanism by which rb participate directly in neuronal differentiation .
to far dissect the mechanism of action of rb in sac we determine the e2f3 isoform it target to promote differentiation .
e2f3b be the primary candidate , since rb and e2f3b collaborate to repress target in quiescent cell in vitro [ 19 ] .
however , in the first work to our knowledge to examine the function of any e2f protein isoform in vivo , we make the surprising observation that rb regulate sac differentiation through e2f3a ( figure 8 ) .
formally , we can not exclude the possibility that delete e2f3b might also rescue sac differentiation , but definitive proof will require analysis of e2f3b null mouse .
nevertheless , our data prove that rb definitely regulate sac differentiation through the activate e2f3 isoform .
distinct e2f3a and e2f3b localization
the subcellular location of e2f isoforms have not to our knowledge be address before .
e2f3a and e2f3b share 110 c - terminal amino acid that encode the nls , dna - bind , marked box , transactivation , and rb - bind domain [ 16 ] , yet they exhibit different subcellular distribution in develop retinal cell .
e2f3a be both nuclear and cytoplasmic , but e2f3b be always nuclear .
the unique 121 - and six - residue n - terminus of e2f3a and e2f3b , respectively , likely mediate this difference .
this region in e2f1 , e2f2 , and e2f3a bind ccna2 , establish a negative regulatory loop that deactivate e2fs in mid - late s - phase [ 64 , 65 ] .
however , even e2f3b , which lack this domain , bind and be regulate by ccna2 [ 18 ] , so the domain difference may not explain the unique distribution we observe .
rb family and tfdp protein can also determine e2f localization [ 20 – 22 ] , and we find that a portion of both rb and tfdp1 protein be cytoplasmic in retinal cell .
indeed , immunostaining reveal that rb and e2f3 colocalize to sac process .
the nuclear localization of e2f3b contrast with that of other repressive e2fs in differentiate muscle , where e2f5 switch from the nucleus to cytoplasm , while e2f4 remain in both compartment [ 23 ] .
the distinct compartmentalization of e2f3a and e2f3b in the retina suggest temporally and functionally distinct activity .
rb distribution match that of e2f3a , consistent with it critical role in support sac differentiation through e2f3a .
ectopic division and differentiation
rb be critical to ensure that many type of terminally differentiate cell leave the cell cycle ( e.g. , neuron , gut and skin epithelium , muscle , and lens fibre ) ( review in [ 66 ] ) .
early overexpression study in vitro suggest rb might temper expansion of cycling cell , but ko study in vivo indicate that it major role be to block division in terminally differentiate cell .
in it absence , many ( but clearly not all ) aspect of differentiation go ahead relatively unperturbed .
in the retina , differentiate transition cell be bear in the absence of rb , migrate to the correct layer , and express appropriate marker ( [ 2 ] and this work ) .
in brain , rb ko neuron migrate away from the ventricular zone and switch on tubb3 ( βiii - tubulin ) , but continue to incorporate brdu [ 13 ] , and in gut epithelium , differentiate enterocytes migrate up the villus and activate expression of serotonin , yet continue to incorporate brdu [ 67 ] .
in the case of sac , the differentiation defect we observe ( e.g. , loss of slc18a3 and chat ) be not due to aberrant division , but it be possible there be other problem with these cell that be cause by ectopic division .
nevertheless , it be clear that many aspect of differentiation in multiple cell type be compatible with ectopic division .
however , division of terminally differentiate cell be dangerous , since it may facilitate transformation , a be the case in retinoblastoma ( review in [ 66 ] ) .
how do e2f3a perturb sac differentiation ?
e2f3a could disrupt sac differentiation through it well know role a a transcriptional activator , or , in view of the discovery that it be partially cytoplasmic , e2f3a may affect process other than gene regulation .
both scenario be feasible since e2fs regulate differentiation gene [ 44 – 48 ] , and cell cycle regulator , such a cdkn1b , have cytoplasmic activity that influence differentiation [ 68 , 69 ] .
many transcription factor shuttle between nucleus and cytoplasm during neurogenesis ( e.g. , [ 70 ] and reference therein ) .
it may be difficult to identify e2f3a - specific target gene or cytoplasmic protein in sac since these neuron be a small proportion ( < 1 % ) of the total retina and only ~ 5.2 % of amacrine neuron [ 38 ] .
do e2fs mediate all rb function ?
others have suggest that rb promote differentiation in non-neuronal cell through e2f - independent mean [ 31 – 33 ] .
however , these study do not assess whether these cell type differentiate normally if rb be delete along with one or more e2f family member .
one study report that rb mutant that do not bind e2f still induce differentiation [ 30 ] .
however , the binding assay be perform in solution , and we have find that several of these mutant do bind e2f , albeit weakly , on chromatin ( t. yu and r. b. , unpublished data ) .
it be possible that rb - mediate potentiation of tissue - specific transcription factor may , at least in some case , be a redundant activity , and that the only critical rb function be to inhibit e2f .
our study be the first to our knowledge to assess comprehensively whether rb ko cell can differentiate in the absence of different e2fs .
in light of our finding , it will be important to reassess differentiation defect in other rb ko tissue in the absence of individual and combine activate e2f family member .
material and method
mouse strain and genotyping .
mouse be treat accord to institutional and national guideline .
α - cre mouse ( p. grus ) , chx10 - cre mouse ( c. cepko ) , rbloxp / loxp mouse ( a. bern ) , e2f1 – / – mouse , e2f2 – / – mouse , e2f3loxp / loxp mouse , and e2f3a − / − mouse be maintain on a mixed ( nmri × c57 / bl × fvb / n × 129sv ) background .
a detailed description of e2f3a − / − mouse will be publish elsewhere .
mouse of different genotype be compare within the same litter and across a minimum of three litter .
we have not note any phenotypic difference in separate litter .
genotyping be perform a before [ 2 , 5 ] , and the primer use for genotyping e2f3a − / − mouse be e2f3a kl ( 5 ′ - ctccagacccccgattattt - 3 ′ ) , e2f3a kr1 ( 5 ′ - tccagtgcactactccctcc - 3 ′ ) , and e2f3a km ( 5 ′ - gctagcagtgcccttttgtc - 3 ′ ) .
histology , immunofluorescence , and measurement .
eyeball be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde for 1 h at 4 °c , embed in oct ( tissuetek 4583 , sakura , http://www.sakuraeu.com ) , freeze on dry ice , and cut into 12 - μm section on superfrost plus slide ( vwr , http://www.vwr.com ) .
for s - phase analysis , brdu ( 100 μg / g of body weight ) be inject intraperitoneally 2 h prior to sacrifice .
brdu + cell be detect use a biotin - conjugate sheep polyclonal antibody ( 1 : 500 , maine biotechnology service , http://www.mainebiotechnology.com ) .
all other antibody be describe in table s1 .
for e2f3 , mki67 , and rb staining , antigen retrieval be perform by boil section in citric acid solution for 15 min accord to ino [ 50 ] , except on freeze section .
tunel be perform a describe [ 13 ] .
briefly , section be incubate for 1 h at 37 °c with 75 μl of mixture solution consist of 0.5 μl of terminal deoxynucleotide transferase , 1 μl of biotin - 16 - dutp , 7.5 μl of cocl2 , 15 μl of 5 × terminal deoxynucleotide transferase buffer , and 51 μl of distil water .
after three wash in 4 × ssc buffer , section be incubate with alexa 488 – or alexa 568 − streptavidin ( 1 : 1,000 ; molecular probe , http://probes.invitrogen.com ) for 1 h at room temperature .
primary antibody or label cell be visualize use donkey anti-mouse alexa 488 or alexa 568 , donkey anti-rabbit alexa 488 or alexa 568 , donkey anti-goat alexa 488 or alexa 568 , and streptavidin alexa 488 or alexa 568 ( 1 : 1,000 ; molecular probe ) .
nucleus be counter - stain with 4 , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenyindole ( dapi ; sigma , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) .
label cell be visualize use a zeiss ( http://www.zeiss.com ) axioplan - 2 microscope with plan neofluar objective and image capture with a zeiss axioncam camera .
for double - label sample , confocal image be obtain with a zeiss lsm 5.0 laser scanning microscope .
the retina be separate into three bin by divide the ventricular edge of the retina into equal part and extend a line to the vitreal edge [ 2 ] .
bin 1 contain only cell that express cre a progenitor ; bin 3 be at central retina and contain cell derive from progenitor that do not express cre .
for cell count or thickness measurement we use a region 0 – 100 μm peripheral to the boundary separate bin 1 and 2 .
measurement be perform on an axioplan - 2 microscope use axiovison software .
quantification of s - phase , m - phase , and apoptotic cell be perform on horizontal section that include the optic nerve .
quantification of differentiate cell type be perform use horizontal section at equal distance from the optic nerve .
a minimum of three section per eye and three eye from different litter be count .
rna extraction , reverse transcription , and pcr .
total rna be isolate from dissect peripheral retina use trizol reagent ( invitrogen , http://www.invitrogen.com ) follow by digestion with rnase - free dnase ( dna - free , ambion , http://www.ambion.com ) to remove dna contamination .
first - strand cdna be synthesize from 0.2 – 0.5 μg of total rna use the superscript ii first - strand synthesis system ( invitrogen ) .
pcr primer be list in table s2 .
real - time quantitative pcr be perform use an applied biosystems ( http://appliedbiosystems.com ) prism 7900ht .
test be run in duplicate on three separate biological sample with sybr green pcr master mix ( applied biosystems ) exactly a we describe previously [ 71 ] .
briefly , master stock be prepare such that each 10 - μl reaction contain 5 μl of sybr green pcr master mix , 0.1 μl of each forward and reverse primer ( stock 50 μm ) , 0.8 μl of blue h2o ( 0.73 % blue food colour ; mccormick , http://www.mccormick.com ) , 2 μl of dilute cdna template , and 2 μl of yellow h2o ( 0.73 % yellow food colour ) .
pcr consist of 40 cycle of denaturation at 95 °c for 15 s and annealing and extension at 55 °c for 30 s .
an additional cycle ( 95 °c , 15 s , 60 °c ) generate a dissociation curve to confirm a single product .
the cycle quantity require to reach a threshold in the linear range be determine and compare to a standard curve for each primer set generate by five 3 - fold dilution of genomic dna or cdna sample of known concentration .
value obtain for test rna be normalize to hprt1 mrna level .
western blot .
mouse retina be homogenize by pass them through a 30 - gauge bd 9 http://www.bd.com ) needle 5 – 10 time in 1 × pb solution .
nuclear and cytoplasmic protein be extract use the ne - per nuclear and cytoplasmic extraction kit ( product # 78833 , pierce biotechnology , http://www.piercenet.com ) .
protein be separate by 10 % sd - page and transfer to nitrocellulose .
after block overnight at 4 °c in 5 % skim milk , membrane be incubate in the primary antibody for 2 h at room temperature .
after three 10 - min wash in tpbs ( 100 mm na2hpo4 , 100 mm nah2po4 , 0.5 n nacl , 0.1 % tween - 20 ) , membrane be incubate for 30 min at room temperature in the secondary horseradish peroxidase - conjugate antibody ( jackson immunoresearch laboratory , http://www.jacksonimmuno.com ) .
blot be develop use the ecl - plus chemiluminescent detection system ( amersham pharmacia biotech , http://www.pharmacia.ca ) , accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
the follow primary antibody be use : e2f - 1 ( sc - 193 ) , e2f - 3 ( sc - 878 ) , cdkn1a ( p21 , sc - 471 ) , cdkn1b ( p27 , sc - 528 ) , pou4f2 ( brn3b , sc - 6062 ) , and tfdp1 ( dp1 , sc - 610 ) from santa cruz biotechnology ( http://www.scbt.com ) , prb ( 554136 ) from bd science - pharmingen ( http://www.bdbiosciences.com ) , and slc18a3 ( vacht , g448a ) from promega ( http://www.promega.com ) .
electroretinography .
erg be record from dark - adapt mouse a describe [ 72 ] .
briefly , mouse be dark - adapt overnight and anaesthetize by subcutaneous injection of ketamine ( 66.7 mg / kg body weight ) and xylazine ( 11.7 mg / kg body weight ) .
the pupil be dilate and single - flash erg recording be obtain under dark - adapt ( scotopic ) and light - adapt ( photopic ) condition .
light adaptation be accomplish with a background illumination of 30 candela ( cd ) per square meter start 10 min before recording .
single white - flash stimulation range from 10 − 4 to 25 cd · s / m2 , divide into ten step of 0.5 and 1 log cd · s / m2 .
ten response be average with an inter-stimulus interval of either 5 s ( for 10 − 4 , 10 − 3 , 10 − 2 , 3 × 10 − 2 , 10 − 1 , and 3 × 10 − 1 cd · s / m2 ) or 17 s ( for 1 , 3 , 10 , and 25 cd · s / m2 ) .
band - pas filter cut - off frequency be 0.1 and 3,000 hz .
statistic .
different genotype be evaluate use analysis of variance ( anova ) follow by the tukey honestly significant difference ( hsd ) test or fisher test ( xlstat program , http://www.xlstat.com ) .
supporting information
figure s1
delete e2f1 , but not e2f2 or e2f3 , rescue ectopic division and cell death in p0 and p18 rb ko retina
horizontal section of the indicate genotype and age be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , and ( a ) s - phase ( anti-brdu , red ) or ( b ) apoptosis ( tunel , red ) .
in rb − / − retina , brdu + cell extend beyond the normal boundary at p0 ( arrow ) , and ectopic dna synthesis continue in multiple layer at late stage .
scale bar be 50 μm .
the nbl be where divide rpcs be locate .
( 815 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
delete e2f1 rescue ectopic division and apoptosis in the embryonic rb ko retina
horizontal section of the indicate genotype and age ( e14 and e16 , the period during which sac be bear ) be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , and either s - phase ( upper two panel , anti-brdu , red ) or apoptosis ( low two panel , tunel , red ) .
in rb − / − retina , brdu + and tunel + cell can be see in the inner retina ( arrow ) .
inactivation of e2f1 rescue these defect .
scale bar be 50 μm .
the nbl be where divide rpcs be locate .
( 754 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
delete e2f1 , but not e2f2 or e2f3 , rescue ectopic mitosis in the rb ko retina
( a ) horizontal retinal section of the indicate genotype and age be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) and m - phase ( anti-ph3 , red ) .
scale bar be 50 μm .
( b ) quantification of all ph3 + cell .
( c ) quantification of ectopic ph3 + cell .
error bar represent standard deviation ( sd ) , and asterisk indicate significant difference between retina of wt and indicate genotype ( * , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test ) .
( 628 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
delete e2f2 or e2f3 do not rescue ganglion , rod , or bipolar cell death in the rb ko retina
( a ) horizontal retinal section from mouse of the indicate age and genotype be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) and marker that detect ganglion cell ( pou4f2 , red ) , rod and cone ( sag [ rod arrestin ] , green ) , and rod bipolar cell ( prkca , green ) .
scale bar be 50 μm .
( b ) quantification of total ganglion ( pou4f2 + ) cell .
( c ) quantification of total rod bipolar ( prkca + ) cell .
( d ) thickness of the onl , which represent the number of rod .
error bar represent sd , and asterisk indicate significant difference between retina of wt and indicate genotype ( ** , p < 0.01 ; anova and tukey hsd test ) .
( 488 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s5
e2f1 deletion rescue α - cre ; rbloxp / loxp retinal function
erg be record from the indicate genotype under light adapt ( photopic ) condition .
( a ) intensity series .
( b ) the b - wave amplitude a a function of the logarithm of the flash intensity .
( 383 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s6
differentiation defect in rb ko sac
horizontal retinal section of indicate genotype and age be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) and calb2 ( [ a ] , red ; only densely stain cell be count for figure 3c ) , camk2a ( [ b ] , green ) , and slc18a3 ( [ c ] , red ) .
scale bar be 50 μm .
( 564 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s7
gaba neurotransmitter in the rb ko retina and abnormal sac in chx10 - cre ; rbloxp / loxp retina
horizontal section of the indicate genotype and age of retina be stain for nucleus ( dapi , blue ) , and ( a and b ) gaba ( red ) and slc18a3 ( green ) or ( c ) chat and slc18a3 ( red ) .
( a ) in p18 wt retina , gaba label four ipl track , of which the two inner track co-stained with slc18a3 .
the latter track disappear in the rb ko retina , and be rescue by e2f3 ko but not e2f1 ko .
( b ) at the boundary of the wt ( central ) and rb ko area ( peripheral retina ) the inner gaba + sac track can be see disappear towards the periphery ( left ) .
( c ) slc18a3 staining in the ipl of chx10 - cre ; rbloxp / loxp retina be consistent with the mosaic pattern of rb inactivation .
scale bar be 50 μm .
( 633 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s8
subcellular distribution of e2f3a isoform in the develop retina
nuclear and cytoplasmic extract from an equivalent number of retinal cell from mouse of the indicate genotype and age be analyze by western blotting to detect the e2f3a protein .
lysates from e2f3a − / − mouse of matched age be use a a control to confirm the location of e2f3a protein .
c , cytoplasmic extract ; n , nuclear extract .
( 115 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
list of antibody and marker pattern in rb / e2f1 dko sac
( 97 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
table s2
real - time rt - pcr primer
( 49 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank ) accession number for the major gene and gene product discuss in this paper be camk2a ( nm_009792 ) , chat ( nm_009891 ) , e2f1 ( nm_007891 ) , e2f2 ( nm_177733 ) , e2f3 ( nm_010093 ) , rb ( nm_009029 ) , and slc18a3 ( nm_021712 ) .
acknowledgement
we thank k. mcclellan and r. slack for share unpublished data , l. galli - resta for suggest isl1 ( islet1 ) a an early sac marker , j. eubanks for advice on immunostaining , a. bern , c. cepko , and p. grus for mouse , and t. edlund , f. haeseleer , r. janz , s. sugita , p. a. hargrave , c. m. craft , x. zhu , r. mcinnes , r. l. chow , and j. saari for antibody .
abbreviation
anova - analysis of variance
brdu - bromodeoxyuridine
cd - candela
cns - central nervous system
dapi - 4 , 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenyindole
dko - double knockout
e [ number ] - embryonic day [ number ]
e2f - e2f transcription factor
erg - electroretinogram
hsd - honestly significant difference
gaba - gamma - aminobutyric acid
gcl - ganglion cell layer
inl - inner nuclear layer
ipl - inner plexiform layer
ko - knockout
nbl - neuroblastic layer
onl - out nuclear layer
opl - out plexiform layer
p [ number ] - postnatal day [ number ]
ph3 - phosphohistone 3
rb - retinoblastoma protein
rpc - retinal progenitor cell
rtc - retinal transition cell
rt - pcr - reverse transcriptase pcr
sac - starburst amacrine cell
sd - standard deviation
tunel - terminal dutp nick - end labelling
wt - wild - type
footnote
author contribution .
dc and rb conceive and design the experiment .
dc perform most of the experiment .
ro , pw , and gl provide the e2f3 floxed and e2f3a ko mouse .
dc and rb analyze the data .
mp , nt , and mws perform the erg analysis .
dc and rb write the paper .
funding .
this work be support by grant from the canadian institute for health research and foundation fight blindness canada to rb , and by the german research council ( dfg se837 / 4 – 1 and 5 – 1 ) and the european union ( ip “ evi - genoret ” lshg - ct - 512036 ) to mws .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a mouse model of sitosterolemia : absence of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 result in failure to secrete biliary cholesterol
abstract
background
mutation in either of two gene comprise the stsl locus , atp - bind cassette ( abc ) - transporter abcg5 ( encode sterolin - 1 ) and abcg8 ( encode sterolin - 2 ) , result in sitosterolemia , a rare autosomal recessive disorder of sterol trafficking characterize by increase plasma plant sterol level .
base upon the genetics of sitosterolemia , abcg5 / sterolin - 1 and abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be hypothesize to function a obligate heterodimers .
no phenotypic difference have yet be describe in human with complete defect in either abcg5 or abcg8 .
these protein , base upon the defect in human , be responsible for regulate dietary sterol entry and biliary sterol secretion .
method
in order to mimic the human disease , we create , by a target disruption , a mouse model of sitosterolemia result in abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficiency alone .
homozygous knockout mouse be viable and exhibit sitosterolemia .
result
mouse deficient in abcg8 have significantly increase plasma and tissue plant sterol level ( sitosterol and campesterol ) consistent with sitosterolemia .
interestingly , abcg5 / sterolin - 1 be express in both liver and intestine in abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse and continue to show an apical expression .
remarkably , abcg8 deficient mouse have an impaired ability to secrete cholesterol into bile , but still maintain the ability to secrete sitosterol .
we also report an intermediate phenotype in the heterozygous abcg8 + / - mouse that be not sitosterolemic , but have a decrease level of biliary sterol secretion relative to wild - type mouse .
conclusion
these data indicate that abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be necessary for biliary sterol secretion and that loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 have a more profound effect upon biliary cholesterol secretion than sitosterol .
since biliary sitosterol secretion be preserve , although not elevated in the sitosterolemic mouse , this observation suggest that mechanism other than by abcg8 / sterolin - 2 may be responsible for it secretion into bile .
background
absorption of dietary cholesterol from the intestine be an important part of cholesterol homeostasis and represent the initial step that allow dietary cholesterol to exert it metabolic effect .
a typical western diet contain relatively equal amount of cholesterol and non-cholesterol sterol , mainly plant sterol , of which about 55 % of the dietary cholesterol be absorb and retain compare to ~ 1 % of the dietary non-cholesterol sterol [ 1 - 3 ] .
schoenheimer recognize more than 75 year ago that only cholesterol , not non-cholesterol sterol , be absorb in the intestine , although the exact molecular mechanism by which preferential cholesterol absorption occur have not be fully elucidate [ 4 ] .
similarly , although the liver secrete free cholesterol into bile , it can preferentially excrete non-cholesterol sterol into bile and the mechanism ( s ) of this process have yet to be elucidate as well .
only recently , through the study of a rare human disease , have clue to this process be reveal .
sitosterolemia ( mim 210250 , also know a phytosterolemia ) be a rare autosomal , recessively inherit disorder characterize by elevate blood and tissue plant sterol level [ 5 ] .
affect individual can develop tendon and / or tuberous xanthoma , hemolytic episode , arthralgia , arthritis , and premature atherosclerosis [ 6 , 7 ] .
sitosterolemic patient have diagnostically elevate plasma plant sterol level ( for example , sitosterol , campesterol , stigmasterol , and avenosterol , etc. ) and their 5 - saturate stanol metabolite , particularly sitostanol , with normal or only moderately increase cholesterol level .
clinical study have show that affect individual hyperabsorb all dietary sterol ( thus have lose the ability to restrict the sterol specie absorb ) and have lose the ability to excrete sterol into bile [ 8 , 9 ] .
infusion of sitosterol and cholesterol into normal individual lead to a rapid and preferential excretion of sitosterol into bile , but in sitosterolemic individual biliary sterol secretion be almost absent [ 7 , 9 ] .
previous study on sitosterolemia have suggest a defect involve a putative sterol ' transporter ' express in the intestinal brush border and / or the hepatic canalicular membrane [ 10 , 11 ] .
genetic analysis of sitosterolemia pedigree allow the mapping of the stsl locus to human chromosome 2p21 , between d2s2294 and d2s2298 [ 12 , 13 ] .
by use positional cloning procedure or by screen for gene induce by exposure to lxr agonist , two group identify not one but two gene , abcg5 and abcg8 , which encode the protein sterolin - 1 and sterolin - 2 , mutation of which cause sitosterolemia [ 14 - 16 ] .
interestingly , complete mutation in either abcg5 alone or abcg8 alone be not only necessary , but sufficient to cause the disease [ 14 ] .
to date , no patient with sitosterolemia have be identify with mutation in both gene .
base upon these data , and the similarity of the clinical and biochemical phenotype , sterolin - 1 and sterolin - 2 be hypothesize to function a obligate heterodimers .
this be also support by the fact that each of these protein be a ' half - transporter ' , contain six transmembrane domain , and not the classical 12 transmembrane characteristic of functional abc transporter .
the exact function of these two protein still remain unknown but recent study have show that overexpression of abcg5 / abcg8 in a transgenic mouse model result in an increase biliary cholesterol concentration and a 50 % reduction in the fractional absorption of dietary cholesterol [ 17 ] .
it have be suggest that abcg5 and abcg8 act a mutual chaperone for both maturation and correct apical targeting .
co-expression of both be require for apical trafficking in a polarize cell line , as well in vivo use abcg5 / abcg8 double - knockout mouse [ 18 , 19 ] .
however , no functional assay have yet be develop to demonstrate whether or not the two half - transporter function a homo - or heterodimers and whether they selectively pump sterol .
likewise , the cellular localization of these two protein have yet to be show in a model deficient in either abcg5 or abcg8 alone .
a mouse model disrupt both abcg5 and abcg8 simultaneously result in a phenotype similar to that of the human disease [ 20 ] .
however , it be important to point out that the human disease be cause by complete mutation in one or the other gene , but not both simultaneously .
we hypothesize that disruption of only one of the half - transporter would result in sitosterolemia and selective loss of either sterolin may show a differential effect on the biliary secretion of sterol or intestinal absorption of sterol .
these study be difficult to test in human , a the target organ be relatively inaccessible .
in order to test this hypothesis , we report a mouse model that have a selective genetic mutation of abcg8 .
mouse homozygous for abcg8 loss exhibit many of the characteristic of the human disease sitosterolemia .
in addition , we report study of biliary sterol secretion that show that despite forced secretion , abcg8 - deficient animal can not secrete cholesterol into bile , although sitosterol secretion seem unaffected .
method
targeting vector construction and generation of knockout mouse
a mouse genomic bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) library ( citbcj7 , e cell line / 129sv , research genetics , inc. , huntsville , al , usa ) be screen by use primer design from the sequence of mouse abcg5 and abcg8 cdna a previously report [ 21 ] .
a positive bac clone be use a a template to amplify genomic dna fragment of abcg8 .
long - fragment polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) be perform use expanded long template pcr system kit ( roche applied science , indianapolis , ia , usa ) .
an approximately 4.5 kb ' long - arm ' genomic fragment contain partial exon 1 to partial exon 3 be insert into the pml i restriction - clone site a of osdupdel vector .
the ' short - arm ' genomic fragment , contain partial exon 4 to partial exon 6 , be clone into the not i - kpn i of clone site b .
homologous targeting would result in complete intron 3 , partial exon 3 and partial exon 4 replacement by the neomycin - resistance cassette , result in the disruption of the abc walker a motif ( figure 1a ) .
e cell ( 129 / svevtac - cell line ) be electroporated with the linearize targeting vector dna and culture on sub-confluent embryonic fibroblast .
transfected cell colony be select by culture cell in medium contain 200 μg / ml g418 ( life technology , rockville , md , usa ) .
the e cell be screen for homologous recombination by pcr with the forward primer , neof ( 5 ' - gggtcgtttgttcggatcaa - 3 ' ) from neo cassette , and reverse primer intron 6r ( 5 ' - accagttggtcctagctcga - 3 ' ) , which be locate outside the target construct in mouse abcg8 intron 6 .
positively target e cell clone be confirm by southern blotting , use e cell dna digest by bamhi and a probe comprise of a 562 bp pcr fragment from partial intron 2 and exon 3 of abcg8 gene .
positively target e cell be microinjected into c57bl6 blastocyst and transplant into pseudopregnant recipient .
five highly chimeric mouse ( agouti coat color , three male and two female ) be isolate and breed with c57bl / 6j mouse to generate germ - line transmission heterozygous mouse of abcg8 gene disruption .
heterozygous offspring mouse be back - cross to c57bl / 6j mouse ( n > 5 ) to produce disrupt line and inter-crossed to generate knockout mouse .
animal and diet
all mouse be maintain on a standard rodent chow ( harlan teklad mouse / rat diet lm - 485 ) which contain 61 mg / kg cholesterol , 31 mg / kg campesterol , and 105 mg / kg sitosterol , give free access to water and maintain at 25 °c with a 12 - h light , 12 - h dark cycle .
all animal be house in the facility for laboratory animal provide by the division of laboratory animal resource aclam .
the institutional animal care and research advisory committee at medical university of south carolina approve all experiment .
genotyping by pcr
mouse tail dna be isolate and purify by cut approximately 0.5 cm of mouse tail and digest it in 500 μl lysis buffer ( 50 mm tris - hcl , ph 8.0 , 100 mm edta , 125 mm nacl , 1 % sd , 200 μg proteinase k ) with rock overnight at 55 °c .
200 μl saturate nacl be add into digested solution with vigorous shake for at least 60 second .
mix solution be spin down at maximum speed in top micro - centrifuge for 20 min .
the supernatant be transfer to a new tube with equal volume 100 % etoh and mix by inversion .
the dna pellet be wash in 70 % etoh and resuspend in 100 – 150 μl te buffer .
uv spectrophotometry and electrophoresis be use to analyze the quality and quantity of the genomic dna .
genotyping be perform by multiplex pcr reaction use three separate primer ( two abcg8 gene specific primer , mg8 - in3f 5 ' - cccaatgatgaatgagacgct - 3 ' , mg8 - r9 5 ' - tttgtcacgctgggcctgg - 3 ' and neof for identification of abcg8 target status ) .
the pcr reaction consist of 1x pcr buffer ( 1.5 mm mgcl2 , 16 mm ( nh4 ) 2so4 , 0.1 mm dntps , 67 mm tris - hcl ( ph 8.8 ) ) 1 μm of each primer , water and 1.0 unit of taq polymerase .
the reaction be cycle a follow : 94 °c for 30 sec , 60 °c for 30 sec , 72 °c for 1 min for 35 cycle .
the pcr product be identify by electrophoresis .
southern blot analysis
to confirm pcr result , dna be digest with bam hi , subject to electrophoresis in a 0.6 % agarose gel and transfer to nylon membrane .
southern blot filter be hybridize with a 562 bp pcr fragment from partial intron 2 and exon 3 of abcg8 32p - randomly - label probe a previously describe [ 22 ] .
northern blot analysis
isolation of liver and intestinal total rna from abcg8 + / + , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse and northern blot analysis be perform a previously describe [ 23 ] .
the probe for abcg5 be 1964 bp ( nt 136 – 2099 , genebank™ accession no. ah011511 ) and the probe for abcg8 be 2019 bp ( nt 103 – 2126 , genebank™ accession no. ah011518 ) .
reverse transcription ( rt ) - pcr
to confirm that there be no alternative splicing of the disrupt allele , rt - pcr be perform on cdna of pool mouse liver .
briefly , sample of total rna ( 0.5 μg ) from pool mouse liver ( n = 4 ) be reverse transcribe accord to the superscript™ first - strand synthesis system ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca , usa ) use random hexamers in a final total reaction volume of 20 μl .
rt - pcr be perform use primer locate outside of the target region : f1 ( cctcagctggtgaggaggtg ) with r1 ( gatggagaaggtgaagttgcc ) , f2 ( atttccaatgacttccgggac ) with r1 and f3 ( ctggaagacgggctgtacact ) with r1 , to produce expect product length of 1449 , 654 and 429 bp respectively in wild - type cdna .
quantitative rt - pcr
primer be base upon previously publish primer set [ 24 - 26 ] or design use macvector , which be design from either mrna or cdna to avoid the amplification of potentially contaminate genomic dna in the total rna sample ( table 1 ) .
sample of total rna ( 0.5 μg ) from pool mouse liver ( n = 4 ) be reverse transcribe accord to the superscript™ first - strand synthesis system ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca , usa ) use random hexamers with a final total reaction volume of 20 μl .
quantitative rt - pcr be perform on a pe biosystems geneamp® 5700 sequence detection system ( forest city , ca , usa ) .
standard reaction volume be 10 μl contain 1 × quantitect sybr green pcr master mix ( qiagen , valencia , ca , usa ) , 0.002 u amperase ung enzyme ( pe biosystems , forest city , ca , usa ) , 0.7 μl of cdna template from reverse transcription reaction a above and 100 – 500 nm of oligonucleotide primer .
initial step of rt - pcr be two minute at 50 °c for ung activation , follow by a 15 minute hold at 95 °c .
cycle ( n = 40 ) consist of a 15 second melt at 95 °c , follow by a 1 minute annealing / extension at 60 °c .
the final step be a 60 °c incubation for 1 minute .
at the end of the run , sample be heat to 95 °c with a ramp time of 20 minute to construct dissociation curve to ensure that single pcr product be obtain .
all reaction be perform in triplicate .
threshold cycle ( ct ) analysis of all sample be set at 0.5 relative fluorescence unit .
the relative quantity of message of gene of interest from the mouse liver sample use in real - time rt - pcr be normalize to cyclophilin to compensate for variation in input rna amount .
the data be analyze use the comparative threshold cycle method ( ct ) .
briefly , the ct value be average , from the triplicate define a δ - ct value calculate by take the average ct of the gene of interest and subtract it from the average ct of cyclophilin .
the δδ - ct be calculate by subtract the average δ - ct ( calibrator ) value from the δ - ct ( sample ) .
the relative quantification be then calculate by the expression 2 - averageδδ - ct .
the mrna quantity for the calibrator ( wild type ) be express a 1 and all other quantity be express a a fold difference relative to the calibrator ( wild type ) .
plasma lipid analysis by fast protein liquid chromatography
follow 16 hr of fasting , blood sample ( n = 3 ) from each of the abcg8 + / + , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse be collect from the retro - orbital venous plexus use heparinized capillary tube under isoflurane anesthesia , and place into precooled tube contain 10 μl of 0.5 m edta .
equal volume of plasma from each genotype be pool and 100 μl of the pool sample be inject and fractionate by fast protein liquid chromatography ( fplc ) use a superose 6 hr10 / 30 column ( pharmacia biotech inc. , piscataway , nj , usa ) and analyze a describe [ 27 ] .
sterol composition of plasma and tissue
follow a four - hour fast of 12 - week - old mouse feed on regular rodent chow diet ; blood and tissue be collect under isofluorane anesthesia from each of the abcg8 + / + , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse ( n = 3 for each group ) .
blood be collect from the retro - orbital venous plexus by heparinized glass tube .
the animal be sacrifice by cervical dislocation for tissue collection .
plasma ( 100 μl ) be saponify in 1 n naoh for one hour , 1.5 ml water add and sterol extract with three sequential portion of 1.5 ml ethyl acetate , contain 70 μg 5α - cholestane a an internal standard , pool and dry .
mouse tissue ( liver , spleen and brain ) be weigh , homogenize in 1 ml phosphate buffer saline ( pb ) with a dounce homogenizer ( 15 stroke at 500 rpm ) and a small aliquot of the whole homogenate assay for protein concentration .
aliquot for sterol analysis from whole tissue homogenate be extract a describe above .
dry sterol sample be derivatized a trimethylsilylethers , redissolved in 10 μl hexane and 2 μl sample be inject into a capillary column ( 26 m length , 0.32 mm id , 0.45 mm od ) coat with liquid cpwax 57 cb ( chrompak , bridgewater , nj , usa ) in a hewlett - packard gas chromatograph equip with a flame ionization detector [ 28 ] .
concentration of plasma and tissue sterol be report a mg / dl and μg / g wet weight tissue , respectively .
polyclonal antibody production
three separate polyclonal anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody have be raise a previously describe [ 20 , 29 , 30 ] .
in experiment , anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody be label a follow :
1 ) sc – from the patel group , 2 ) amc – from the amc liver center group , and 3 ) utsw – from the hobbs group .
membrane protein preparation
total membrane be prepare by take approximately 500 mg of liver tissue cut into small piece and homogenize in ice cold lysis buffer ( 5 mm tris - ph 7.5 , 250 mm sucrose with protease inhibitor ) by a dounce homogenizer time 10 stroke .
sample be then subject to centrifugation – 1300 g for 10 minute at 4 °c .
the supernant be save and the pellet be resuspend and again subject to dounce homogenization time 10 stroke then centrifuge 1000 g for 10 minute at 4 °c .
this step be repeat twice each time with the supernant be collect and keep on ice .
the supernants be then pool and subject to ultracentrifugation at 100,000 g for 60 minute at 4 °c .
the supernant be remove and the pellet be resuspend in lysis buffer .
plasma membrane be prepare a previously describe [ 31 ] .
protein sample concentration be then determine by bio - rad protein colormetric assay per manufacturer 's protocol ( biorad , hercules , ca , usa ) .
50 μg of membrane protein be then resolve on 7.5 % sd acrylamide gel .
immunoblotting
protein resolve by sd - page be transfer to nitrocellulose membrane .
membrane be then block for one hour in 5 % dry milk in pb - t ( phosphate buffer saline and 0.1 % tween 20 ) .
blot be then probe with primary antibody against abcg5 in 5 % milk in pb - t overnight at 4 °c .
the blot be then wash three time for five minute in tb - t ( tris buffer saline / 0.1 % tween - 20 ) with 150 mm nacl , and secondarily stain with goat - anti-rabbit conjugate hrp 1 : 10,000 dilution in 5 % milk in pb - t for one hour .
the blot be again wash three time for five minute in tb - t with 150 mm nacl then cover in western lightning® chemiluminescence reagent plus ( perkinelmer life science , inc. boston , ma , usa ) , wrap in plastic , expose to film and develop .
immunohistochemical analysis
snap - freeze liver and intestine tissue be cut to produce 8 μm thick frozen section , air - dry for 30 minute onto glass slide and store at - 80 °c until require .
the slide be stain with hematoxylin , rinse three time with pb , fix for 10 min with cool methanol at - 20 °c and then rinse three time with pb .
slide for antibody staining be initially block in pb / 0.1 m glycine / 10 % goat serum for 60 min at room temperature then incubate with anti-sterolin - 1 antibody ( 1 : 15 dilution ) overnight at 4 °c .
the slide be wash with 1 × pb and incubate with secondary antibody ( goat - anti-rabbit igg conjugate with rhodamine , 1 : 1000 dilution ) for 30 min at room temperature , wash and then observe under an olympus bx - 5 confocal microscope with fluoview .
the section stain at the amc liver center be fix in 100 % acetone for 30 min at room temperature , block in a solution of pb / 0.05 % tween - 20 / 5 % goat serum ( g ) for one hour , then incubate with anti-sterolin - 1 ( 1 : 40 dilution ) and anti-bsep ( 1 : 200 dilution ) dilute in pb / tween / g , for one hour .
thereafter , slide be wash 3 × 10 min in pb / tween and the secondary antibody ( goat - anti-rabbit alexa 488 ) be apply in 1 : 1000 dilution in pbst / g for one hour at room temperature .
after wash for 3 × 10 min the section be mount in dapi / dapco solution .
fluorescence microscopy be do with a leica dm ra2 microscope equip with a leica dc350f photo camera .
for dapi staining , 359 nm ( 30.38 m exposure ) be use and for abcg5 and bsep staining , 514 nm ( for both : 1654.34 m exposure ) be use and the picture be analyze and overlay use fw4000 software ( leica ) .
transfection and immunostaining of co - 1 cell
co - 1 cell be transiently transfected with pcmv - mouse abcg5 and pcmv - mouse abcg8 expression construct use the qiagen superfect reagent per protocol ( valencia , ca , usa ) .
briefly , co - 1 cell be seed onto a six - well plate the day prior to transfection to generate 60 % confluence when grow at 37 °c and 5 % co2 in dmem supplement with 10 % fbs , 100 u / ml penicillin , 100 μg / ml streptomycin and 1 × glutamine .
on the day of transfection , 2 μg of dna be mix with qiagen superfect reagent and incubate for 10 minute .
this mixture be then add to serum - free medium and place on the cell to incubate for two hour .
the cell be wash once with 1x pb and fresh medium be add .
the transfected cell be then incubate for 48 hour to ensure expression and subsequently fix with a 1 : 1 mixture of acetone : methanol .
in preparation for immunostaining , cell be block with 2 % goat serum in pb for 30 minute , then incubate with 1 : 50 dilution of primary antibody anti-abcg5 in 2 % goat serum - pb for 1.5 hour , and subsequently incubate with secondary rhodamine anti-rabbit igg antibody for 30 minute .
cell be then observe under an olympus bx - 5 confocal microscope with fluoview .
dynamic biliary lipid collection and analysis
mouse be anaesthetize by intraperitoneal injection of 1 ml / kg fentanyl / fluanisone and 10 mg / kg diazepam .
the abdomen be open and , after distal ligation of the bile duct , the gallbladder be cannulate .
bile sampling start directly after cannulation and be collect for 10 min .
bile flow be determine gravimetrically .
biliary bile salt , sterol and phospholipid concentration be determine a describe previously [ 32 ] .
to determine maximal secretion rate of biliary lipid secretion , bile be divert for 90 min to deplete the endogenous bile salt pool .
subsequently , tauroursodeoxycholate ( sigma chemical co. , mo , usa ) dissolve in pb be infuse into the jugular vein in stepwise increase rate from 600 – 1,800 nmol / min / 100 g body weight .
bile be collect in 10 min fraction and analyze for bile salt and lipid content .
in separate experiment , follow distal ligation of the bile duct and cannulation of gallbladder , bile be divert for 30 minute while mouse be infuse with sterile pb .
subsequently , the mouse be infuse continuously with 1,200 nmol / min / 100 g body weight of tauroursodeoxycholate and two 30 - minute fraction be collect .
sterol analysis of bile be perform by gc analysis a describe above .
assay of hmg - coa and cholesterol 7 α - hydroxylase enzyme activity
mouse liver microsome be prepare by differential centrifugation [ 33 ] .
briefly , 0.1 – 0.2 g liver be homogenize in a potter - elvjhem homogenizer with five volume of buffer ( 0.25 m sucrose , 0.1 m tris , 0.1 mm disodium edta , 0.1 mm dtt , ph 7.4 ) .
microsome be isolate by differential centrifugation ( 10,000 g to 100,000 g ) .
the pellet be wash and resuspend in storage buffer ( 0.1 m dipotassium phosphate , 0.05 m kcl , 1 mm dtt , 5 mm disodium edta , 20 % glycerol , ph 7.4 ) at 25 – 30 mg protein / ml .
protein concentration be determine accord to the method of lowry et al. [ 34 ] .
the activity of cholesterol 7 α - hydroxylase ( ec 1.14.12.17 ) be measure by an isotope incorporation method accord to shefer et al. [ 33 ] with some modification .
the reaction mixture ( final volume 0.5 ml ) consist of potassium phosphate buffer ( 100 mm k2hpo4 , 0.1 mm edta , 5 mm dtt , 30 mm nicotinamide , ph 7.4 ) , [ 14c ] - cholesterol ( 5 × 105 dpm ) solubilized in 50 μl of 25 % ( wt / vol ) β - cyclodextrin ( final concentration 0.8 % ) , and 50 – 200 μg of microsomal protein .
the reaction be initiate by the addition of nadph or an nadph - generate system ( 3.4 mm nadp+ , 30 mm glucose - 6 - phosphate , 0.3 u of glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ) and continue for 15 min at 37 °c .
the reaction be stop with 0.5 ml of 1 n koh , 5 μg of butylate hydroxytoluene , and 10 μl of ethanolic potassium hydroxide .
[ 3h ] 7 α - hydroxycholesterol ( 1 × 104 dpm / 5 μg ) be add a an internal recovery standard .
after saponification at 37 °c for one hour , sterol be extract twice with 3 ml of n - hexane and the extract be evaporate to dryness under nitrogen .
the residue be dissolve in 0.3 ml of n - hexane : 2 - propanol ( 97.3 vol / vol ) and apply to a silica column ( 500 mg ; sep - pak , by 4 ml of n - hexane : 2 - propanol ( 97.3 vol / vol ) ) .
7 α - hydroxycholesterol be elute with 3 ml of n - hexane : 2 - propanol ( 80 : 20 vol : vol ) and far isolate by tlc on silica gel plate ( silica gel 60 , em science , gibbestown , nj , usa ) with diethyl ether , and quantify by liquid scintillation counting use ecolume ( icn radiochemicals irvine , ca , usa ) .
assay be carry out in duplicate with correction for zero - time control .
hmg - coa reductase ( ec 1.1.1.3.4 ) activity be determine accord to the method of xu et al. [ 35 ] with modification a describe [ 36 ] .
statistical analysis
data be show a mean ± sd .
the student 's t test be use to determine the statistical significance of difference between the group of animal .
significance be set at p value < 0.05 .
result
isolation of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse
the target construct ( figure 1a ) result in the potential disruption of normal splicing , as well a loss of some cod sequence involve exon 3 and 4 .
after e cell electroporation with the linearize target plasmid dna , two homologous recombinant e clone ( out of 58 e clone screen ) be identify .
blastocyst injection of these result in five highly chimeric mouse ( three male , two female ) .
one male and one female , both from the same e clone , show germline transmission and the female line be use to establish a multi-generational colony breed onto a c57bl / 6j background .
heterozygous mouse be fertile and give rise to normal litter size .
breed heterozygous animal lead to wild - type , heterozygous and homozygous knockout mouse in the expect mendelian distribution ( data not show ) .
although not quantitative , northern analysis show that while the knockout mouse show no detectable mrna for abcg8 , expression of abcg5 appear unaltered ( figure 1c ) .
to exclude the possibility of alternative splicing with the production of a non-functional but truncate abcg8 / sterolin - 2 protein that may serve a a chaperone for abcg5 / sterolin - 1 , rt - pcr be perform on cdna reverse transcribe from total liver rna from abcg8 - deficient mouse .
no mrna for abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be detect contain any sequence downstream of exon 4 in the abcg8 - deficient mouse , whether primer be locate in exon 4 and 13 , exon 9 and 13 or exon 10 and 13 ( figure 1d , 1e ) .
this demonstrate that if an alternatively splice message could potentially code for a truncate protein , it be not detectable in the abcg8 - deficient mouse .
the membrane - span domain of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be encode by exon 9 – 13 .
sterol level in abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient animal
elevated plant sterol in tissue and plasma be diagnostic of sitosterolemia .
sterol level , a determine by gas chromatography ( gc ) analysis , in plasma and tissue of the abcg8 - / - mouse be show in table 2 .
there be no difference in tissue weight between wild type , heterozygote and knockout .
plasma cholesterol level of the homozygous and heterozygous mouse be decrease by 52 % and 26 % , respectively , compare to those of wild - type mouse ( n = 3 all group , table 2 ) .
plant sterol be almost undetectable in wild - type and heterozygous mouse , but be significantly elevate in abcg8 - / - mouse .
plasma campesterol and sitosterol level be eight - and 36-fold high in abcg8 - / - mouse compare to wild - type mouse ( 8.76 ± 2.10 and 18.52 ± 5.03 mg / dl , respectively , versus 1.14 ± 0.69 and 0.50 ± 0.55 mg / dl ) .
there be no significant difference in the plasma plant sterol level between heterozygous and wild - type mouse .
liver cholesterol content of the abcg8 - / - mouse be reduce by ~ 50 % relative to wild - type liver ( 1202 ± 264 μg / g wet weight tissue , versus 2280 ± 310 μg / g wet weight tissue , respectively ) .
the reduce cholesterol content be offset by a five-fold increase in campesterol and a 22-fold increase in sitosterol ( 233.9 ± 48.1 and 376.3 ± 96.1 μg / g wet weight tissue , respectively ) in abcg8 - / - knockout mouse compare to wild - type mouse ( 52.2 ± 15.0 and 16.7 ± 8.6 μg / g wet weight tissue , respectively , table 2 ) .
there be no significant difference of liver cholesterol or plant sterol content between abcg8 + / + and abcg8 + / - mouse .
spleen sterol content reflect the liver profile ( table 2 ) .
no significant difference in brain sterol content be observe , a would be expect , since the blood brain barrier be intact and prevent entry of these sterol in sitosterolemia ( table 2 ) .
there be only trace of plant sterol in the brain from knockout animal , reflect blood contamination during tissue harvesting .
interestingly , the majority of the elevate tissue plant sterol be unesterified .
the liver of abcg8 + / + , + / - and - / - mouse have relatively similar level of esterified cholesterol ( figure 2a ) .
however , there be little if any esterification of sitosterol or campesterol ( figure 2b , 2c ) consistent with previous finding [ 37 , 38 ] .
thus all of the expansion of tissue sterol pool be a free sterol .
fplc analysis for sterol ( measure enzymatically and thus reflect total sterol ) and triglyceride be perform on plasma sample from fast animal feed a regular chow diet .
no significant difference be observe for the sterol profile ( figure 3a ) , but surprisingly , the abcg8 - / - knockout mouse have a significantly high triglyceride level in the ldl lipoprotein fraction compare to wild - type and heterozygous mouse ( figure 3b ) .
the size of this peak be variable between different littermate analysis , but be always increased in the knockout animal .
total plasma triglyceride level of the abcg8 - / - mouse be slightly high ( 79.2 ± 14 mg / dl compare to the wild type 63.4 ± 13 mg / dl and heterozygote 46.6 ± 12 mg / dl , n = 3 for all genotype ) .
preliminary analysis of protein in the isolate fplc fraction do not show any qualitative change in apolipoproteins b , e , ai , or aii .
the significance of this triglyceride rich peak remain unclear at present .
liver gene expression and enzyme activity change in abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse
to investigate the effect of a deficiency of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 on the gene that regulate sterol metabolism , quantitative rt - pcr be perform look at the expression level of abcg5 , abcg8 , hmgr , cyp7a1 , abca1 , mdr2 , lxr , srebp - 1c , and srebp - 2 mrna in the liver of mouse feed a regular chow diet ( figure 4a ) .
a expect , abcg8 mrna expression level be undetectable in the abcg8 - / - mouse and be reduce by ~ 50 % in the heterozygous mouse , relative to wild - type mouse .
interestingly , by quantitative rt - pcr , the mrna expression of abcg5 in the knock - out mouse be also reduce by more than 60 % compare to the wild - type mouse , although no change be note in the heterozygous mouse .
expression of hmg - coa reductase mrna be decrease by ~ 50 % and ~ 80 % in the heterozygote and knockout mouse respectively , in keep with limited observation in human patient with this disorder [ 7 ] .
to verify whether the mrna change result in alteration of the enzyme activity change , liver sample be analyze for hmg - coa reductase activity and cyp7a1 activity ( figure 4b ) .
hmg - coa reductase activity be reduce by 30 % and 60 % in the abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse , respectively ( figure 4b ) , and thus reflect the change in mrna expression .
in contrast , although the cyp7a1 mrna expression level be essentially unchanged in the knockout mouse , cyp7a1 activity be significantly decrease by 37 % ( p < 0.01 ) .
in the heterozygous mouse , both the mrna and activity of cyp7a1 be decrease .
sitosterol be know to be a direct competitive inhibitor of cyp7a1 and it be likely that the elevated plant sterol in the liver be responsible for the inhibition in the knockout mouse [ 39 ] .
localization of abcg5 protein in abcg8 - / - knockout mouse
do the loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 result in loss of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 expression , a might be predict from the genetic study and more recently from the in vitro and in vivo expression study ?
a robust antibody to mouse abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be not currently available .
however , three separate group have develop rabbit polyclonal antibody to mouse abcg5 / sterolin - 1 .
these three antibody be use in western blotting and immunohistochemistry experiment on the liver and intestine of abcg8 - / - mouse .
western blotting of liver total membrane preparation use the three separately - develop anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody show different result .
a have be previously publish , abcg5 / sterolin - 1 exist in two separate form , the ' immature ' 75 kda protein and a fully glycosylated ' mature ' 93 kda protein [ 18 , 30 ] .
use the sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 peptide antibody , a 75 kda band be detect ( figure 5a ) .
this antibody do not detect a ' mature ' 93 kda band in either wild - type or knockout animal nor be the 75 kda band sensitive to either endo - h or pngasef ( low panel show same aliquot probe with anti-transferrin ) .
the amc antibody detect the ' mature ' form of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in wild - type animal but not the knockout .
interestingly , the ' immature ' 75 kda band be detect by this antibody but the band shift with endo - h and pngase f treatment ( figure 5b ) .
the utsw antibody detect the ' mature ' and ' immature ' form of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in wild - type animal but detect no form in the knockout mouse ( figure 5c ) .
what do hold true for all antibody use against abcg5 / sterolin - 1 be the detection of a 75 kda band .
immunohistochemistry experiment be carry out use all three antibody .
in acute transfection study , the sc antibody recognize over-expressed mouse abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in co - 1 cell , but not mouse abcg8 / sterolin - 2 ( figure 6b , 6c ) .
co-transfection of co - 1 cell with both abcg5 and abcg8 cdna do not alter the pattern of immunofluorescence , although we be not able to confirm simultaneous expression of abcg8 in cell express abcg5 / sterolin - 1 , a we have no suitable antibody for abcg8 / sterolin - 2 ( figure 6d ) .
nevertheless , this experiment indicate that the sc antibody can recognize abcg5 / sterolin - 1 but do not cross-react with abcg8 / sterolin - 2 .
serial section of intestinal tissue be incubate with anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 to determine the cellular location of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 .
the pattern of staining of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in the intestinal section be clearly apical and localized to the villus of the enterocytes ( figure 6g , 6h , 6i ) .
loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 do not seem to affect this pattern of staining .
to far confirm that the antibody use recognize abcg5 / sterolin - 1 ; this pattern be block if the antibody be pre-incubated with the peptide to which it be raise ( figure 6f ) .
to far confirm that abcg5 / sterolin - 1 expression be preserve and may be apical , immunohistochemistry be perform in amsterdam use the amc antibody to stain liver section from wild - type and knockout mouse [ 30 ] .
a a control , the expression of abcb11 , an abc transporter know to be responsible for the export of bile salt , be compare to that of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 ( figure 6j , 6k ) .
again , both protein be apically localize in liver section from wild - type mouse and this pattern be essentially unperturbed in liver from knockout mouse , although the expression level of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 seem to be less robust qualitatively ( figure 6l , 6m ) .
to far confirm the apical expression of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in the knockout mouse , the utsw antibody be use to stain liver section of wild - type and knockout mouse .
again , there be apical expression of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in both wild - type and knockout liver ( figure 7a , 7b ) .
biliary secretion of bile salt , sterol and phospholipid in abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse
sitosterolemic individual have an impaired ability to secrete cholesterol and plant sterol into bile [ 40 , 41 ] .
we analyze the knockout mouse for any alteration in biliary sterol handling .
analysis of the initial basal bile secretion show that the sterol and phospholipid content in abcg8 - / - mouse be reduce a compare to wild - type mouse , ( figure 8a , 8b , 8c , bile salt secretion not statistically significant , for sterol secretion p = 0.01 and for phospholipid secretion p = 0.03 ) .
to investigate whether the defect in biliary sterol secretion could be ( partly ) restore by force biliary sterol secretion , we infuse mouse with stepwise increase dos of tauroursodeoxycholic acid ( tudc ) .
mouse be first deplete of their endogenous bile salt pool for 90 min and subsequently infuse via the jugular vein with increase dos of tudc .
a show in figure 8d , bile salt secretion be no different between the different genotype during the depletion or the tudc infusion phase of the experiment .
however , a different pattern emerge for the secretion of phospholipid ( figure 8f ) .
there be no difference between wild - type and heterozygous mouse , but knockout mouse show a trend of low phospholipid secretion during both the depletion and infusion phase .
even more dramatic be the effect on biliary sterol secretion although the sterol content be determine enzymatically and no distinction be make a to whether this be sitosterol or cholesterol ( figure 8e , but see below ) .
in the knockout mouse , almost no stimulate sterol secretion be note , with an intermediate phenotype in the heterozygous mouse .
in the heterozygous mouse , sterol secretion increase to reach a maximal level of about 50 % of the wild type suggest that abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be a rate - limit step for biliary ' cholesterol ' secretion .
in the knockout mouse , sterol secretion remain at a constant level during the depletion phase and increase minimally upon infusion of tudc .
since the abcg8 - / - mouse still secrete some sterol we be interested in which biliary sterol specie be be secrete .
therefore bile be collect from mouse during a constant infusion of tudc and analyze by gc .
mouse be first deplete of their endogenous bile acid pool for 30 minute then infuse with a continuous dose of tudc ( 1,200 nmol / min / 100 g body weight ) .
the knockout mouse show a significantly diminish ability to secrete cholesterol , yet still maintain the ability to secrete sitosterol and campesterol compare to wild - type mouse ( figure 9 ) .
surprisingly , the abcg8 + / - mouse tend to show an increase ability to secrete all sterol above the level see in the wild - type mouse , although this be not statistically significant .
discussion
the mechanism by which dietary cholesterol be specifically absorb and dietary non-cholesterol sterol primarily exclude or the mechanism ( s ) by which the liver can selectively secrete sterol have not be elucidate .
identification of the genetic defect ( s ) in a rare human disorder , sitosterolemia , where these process be specifically disrupt , may finally have lead to the identification of the ' transporter ' responsible for these process .
complete defect in one of two gene ( but not both ) , organize in a head - to - head configuration at the stsl locus , cause sitosterolemia .
we report a mouse model of sitosterolemia , with a selective , but complete , defect in one of these gene , abcg8 .
this mouse reflect the known defect describe in human sitosterolemia [ 5 , 7 , 42 ] .
plasma and all tissue , apart from the brain , have significantly elevate sitosterol level .
homozygous knockout mouse be viable , fertile and sitosterolemic .
however , fertility seem to be reduce when homozygous mouse be breed together ( s patel and j oatis , unpublished observation ) .
this model reflect many other observe change describe in limited study in human .
for example , in human , the activity of hmg - coa reductase and cyp7a1 have be report to be low [ 7 , 39 ] .
in this study , we show that the mrna and enzyme activity in the liver from knockout animal be also significantly reduce .
additionally , the activity of the rate - limit enzyme for bile acid synthesis , cyp7a1 , be reduce , although no change at the mrna level be note .
this be also in keep with previous study that show that sitosterol be a direct inhibitor of this enzyme in vitro [ 39 ] .
biliary sterol of abcg8 - deficient mouse be dramatically different compare to wild - type mouse .
measurement of biliary sterol secretion rate in abcg8 - / - mouse demonstrate a failure to increase sterol secretion into bile despite exogenous infusion of bile acid .
furthermore , complete loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 result in an inability to secrete cholesterol into bile , although secretion of sitosterol seem to be preserve .
arguably , since the body pool and plasma sitosterol level in the knockout mouse be so considerably elevated , perhaps the biliary sitosterol level could be consider to be inappropriately low .
despite this reservation , the finding that sitosterol be present in the bile suggest that plant sterol may be secrete independent of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 .
the ability of abcg8 - / - mouse to secrete bile salt and phospholipid into bile a compare to wild - type mouse be not significantly impair .
collectively these data suggest that abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be necessary for hepatobiliary cholesterol secretion in mouse .
abcg8 - / - mouse appear normal and healthy maintain on a regular rodent chow diet .
their phenotypic feature be very similar to those recently report for a mouse deficient in both sterolins simultaneously [ 7 , 20 ] .
plasma and hepatic plant sterol level in abcg8 - / - and abcg5 / abcg8 knockout be increase similarly with marked decrease in cholesterol level .
interestingly , plasma triglyceride level of the abcg8 - / - mouse be slightly high than wild - type animal and this increase triglyceride be carry in the ldl fraction range , a measure by fplc .
the significance of this be not clear , although preliminary sd - page analysis of all the fraction fail to reveal any difference between wild - type and knockout sample .
hepatic level of gc - measure cholesterol be greatly reduce in abcg8 - / - mouse compare to wild - type mouse , yet mrna level of hmg - coa reductase and enzyme activity be also reduce without any significant change in mrna of the srebps .
the basis for this be not clear at present , unless the increase in non-plant sterol lead to a suppression of srebp activation .
sitosterol have be show to directly inhibit cyp7a1 activity in vitro and we presume this may account for the reduce enzyme activity [ 39 ] .
in preliminary study , when knockout mouse be place on a low sitosterol diet , the activity of this enzyme , as well a the mrna level be increase ( e klett and s patel , unpublished observation ) .
another prediction , base upon the enzyme and mrna level in knockout mouse , be that if these mouse be place on a high cholesterol / high sitosterol diet , they may show significant accumulation of both sterol in the body .
this may also be relevant to the human disorder where some , although not all affect individual , manifest premature coronary artery disease .
abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse also allow u to examine the role of this protein in biliary sterol secretion .
the bile be sterol poor and upon stimulation by increase bile salt excretion , abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse can not respond , in contrast to the wild - type mouse .
thus , abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be necessary for cholesterol secretion but not necessary for plant sterol secretion .
it could be argue that although the biliary sterol output be comparable to that see in wild - type mouse that this be inappropriately low , since the tissue and plasma pool of sitosterol be so elevated in the knockout mouse .
despite this caveat , the finding of sitosterol in significant quantity in the bile suggest that mechanism other than via the sterolins can ' export ' some of these sterol .
interestingly , although human who be heterozygous for genetic defect in either abcg5 or abcg8 seem to be phenotypically normal , mouse heterozygous for abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficiency show that sterol secretion be impaired , but not absent .
note that under steady - state condition on a rodent chow diet , heterozygous animal show no significant elevation in plasma or tissue sitosterol level , suggest that the activity of these protein may not be rate limit .
furthermore , the heterozygous abcg8 + / - mouse show high level of biliary sitosterol relative to the wild - type mouse .
while the rate of total biliary sterol secretion be reduce compare to wild - type mouse , since the heterozygous mouse be not sitosterolemic , either the activity of these protein be not rate limit or other mechanism can compensate for a 50 % loss of activity .
on the other hand , since feeding be intermittent , a slow , but continuous secretion during post-prandial period could easily negate any mild temporary increase in tissue and plasma plant sterol level in heterozygous animal .
this may be amenable to test by place these animal on a high plant sterol diet and measure the plasma sterol level .
recently , kosters et al. report that abcg5 / abcg8 mrna expression in a variety of different mouse strain correlate with biliary cholesterol secretion rate [ 30 ] .
in their study , although diosgenin - feed mouse show a marked increase in biliary cholesterol output , mrna level of abcg5 and abcg8 be not alter .
use western blot analysis , the protein level of abcg5 be also not alter by diosgenin , although abcg8 be not measure .
they conclude that a parallel route for biliary cholesterol secretion might be operational , independent of the sterolins .
while biliary cholesterol secretion be not completely absent in the abcg8 - deficient mouse it would appear that sterolin - 2 play a major role in this process .
in a genetic screen of plasma plant sterol level , sehayek et al. identify three locus that may be responsible for control plasma plant sterol level and not one of these locus map to the murine stsl region [ 43 ] .
thus , there be support for at least four locus that may be involve in regulate plasma plant sterol level .
to date the stsl locus be the only one prove to be involve in dietary sterol trafficking and the identity of the others remain to be elucidate .
we , as well a others , have propose abcg5 / sterolin - 1 and abcg8 / sterolin - 2 to function a obligate heterodimers .
thus knock out abcg8 / sterolin - 2 alone be equivalent to a functional loss of both sterolins .
it have be show that abcg8 / sterolin - 2 expression be require for correct apical trafficking of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 to the apical surface in a polarize cell line and more recently in vivo by over-expression experiment [ 18 , 19 ] .
in experiment show here , use three separately develop anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody , we have obtain inconsistent data regard the trafficking of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in abcg8 - / - mouse .
base upon classical n - glycosylation maturation it would appear that abcg5 / sterolin - 1 , in the abcg8 - / - mouse , do not exit the endoplasmic reticulum .
however , by immunohistochemistry it appear that abcg5 / sterolin - 1 be apically express in the abcg8 - deficient mouse regardless of the anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody use .
interestingly , in a report of abcg5 / abcg8 localization in canine gallbladder epithelial cell , these two protein be find intracellularly under baseline condition [ 44 ] .
but when give liver x receptor alpha ( lxrα ) agonist , abcg5 / sterolin - 1 and abcg8 / sterolin - 2 appear to be express at the apical surface .
in these study the utsw anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody be use .
it be apparent with these conflict data that the trafficking of these transporter be not as clear - cut .
in a recent paper , mangrivite et al. show that the apical sorting of rat spnt in polarize renal epithelial cell be independent of n - glycosylation [ 45 ] .
therefore , at this time , we can neither exclude the possibility that abcg5 / sterolin - 1 expression be functional in our abcg8 / sterolin - 2 deficient mouse nor can we rule it out .
we have no functional assay for these protein at present .
more extensive fractionation experiment be underway to well determine the exact compartmental location of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 in the abcg8 - / - mouse .
in this context , plösch et al. have describe an abcg5 / sterolin - 1 deficient mouse that maintain the ability to secrete biliary cholesterol to the same extent a the wild - type mouse and , when feed a lxr agonist , have high abcg8 mrna expression and tend to secrete more biliary cholesterol than wild - type mouse [ 46 ] .
it have be argue that abcg5 / sterolin - 1 and abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be dependent upon each other for secretion of hepatic sterol into bile [ 19 ] .
give the data present here and from the abcg5 - deficient mouse this do not appear to be the case .
perhaps in the previously publish model a non-physiologic state have be make that generate these data .
take together , these animal model suggest that abcg5 / sterolin - 1 and abcg8 / sterolin - 2 have independent function in vivo or that there be protein other than the sterolins that can secrete biliary sterol .
conclusion
the major finding in this study be : ( 1 ) disruption of only one of the two gene comprise the stsl locus be necessary and sufficient to cause sitosterolemia , ( 2 ) that the loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 lead to the loss of biliary cholesterol secretion and ( 3 ) abcg5 / sterolin - 1 appear to be still apically - express despite the absence of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 .
these data strongly support the direct role of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 a a key player in biliary cholesterol secretion , although biliary sitosterol secretion be apparently preserve .
these data suggest that there be mechanism other than abcg8 / sterolin - 2 that allow for the secretion of sitosterol into bile .
compete interest
none declare .
author ' contribution
elk carry out molecular genetics study , quantitative rt - pcr , and dynamic bile collection for figure 9 .
kl carry out molecular genetic study and make the targeting construct .
the knockout mouse be isolate in the nm laboratory .
hy perform northern blotting .
elk , ak , ev and mhl perform western blotting and immunohistochemistry experiment .
ak and nl perform bile collection experiment and bile characterization for figure 8 .
ma perform fplc analysis .
s , ak and rk perform gc sterol analysis .
jc assist with dynamic bile collection and mouse surgery .
roe , ag , nm , g and sbp be responsible for supervision , data analysis of experiment and for provide funding of these experiment .
elk and sbp write the paper .
pre-publication history
the pre-publication history for this paper can be access here :
acknowledgement
we would like to thank dr b stieger for kindly provide anti-bsep antibody and dr h hobbs for provide the utsw anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody .
we would also like to thank john oatis , iii for his excellent animal husbandry .
grant from the american heart association , beginning grant - in - aid mid-atlantic affiliate ( kl ) , nih postdoctoral training grant t32 hl07260 ( elk ) , the netherlands organization for scientific research ( now ) 902 - 23 - 193 ( ak ) as well a the national institute of health grant hl60613 ( sbp ) and dk56830 ( g ) support this work .
figure and table
figure 1
generation of mouse deficient in abcg8 / sterolin - 2 .
the target disruption strategy of abcg8 be a show ( panel a ) .
southern blot analysis of bamhi digest mouse genomic dna , probe with [ 32p ] - randomly label probe result in a 6.0 kb band for wild type , a 2.7 kb band for homozygous and two band of 5.9 and 2.6 kb for the heterozygote ( panel b ) .
northern blot analysis of hepatic rna show a loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 mrna in the homozygote and decrease abcg8 / sterolin - 2 mrna in the heterozygote , although abcg5 / sterolin - 1 mrna appear relatively unaffected in the knockout mouse ( panel c ) .
probe be approximately 1.9 kb for abcg5 and 2 kb for abcg8 ( see method for more detail ) .
rt - pcr analysis of hepatic cdna show no abcg8 / sterolin - 2 message , downstream of exon 4 in the abcg8 - / - mouse , whether primer be locate in exon 4 and 13 ( panel d ) , exon 9 and 13 or exon 10 and 13 ( panel e ) .
figure 2
free versus esterified sterol level in the liver of abcg8 + / + , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse .
sterol content of liver extract of 12 - week - old female mouse feed a regular chow diet , determine by gc analysis show that the majority of sterol in all genotype be unesterified .
esterified cholesterol ( panel a ) remain relatively constant for each genotype .
however , no esterify sitosterol in the liver from abcg8 + / + and abcg8 + / - mouse and very little from abcg8 - / - mouse be detect ( panel b ) .
small amount of esterify campesterol be detect in each of the genotype ( panel c ) .
figure 3
lipid profile of the plasma of abcg8 + / + , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse .
lipoprotein be separate from pool mouse plasma sample by fplc .
total sterol ( panel a ) and triglyceride ( panel b ) profile of the fraction be show .
there be no difference of cholesterol profile in the group , but there be a small triglyceride peak in abcg8 - / - mouse in fraction 21 – 25 , correspond to the ldl - size range , the significance of which be not know at present .
figure 4
analysis of mrna expression and enzyme activity in mouse liver .
panel ( a ) show rt - pcr quantitation of mrna level for abcg5 , abcg8 , hmgr , cyp7a1 , abca1 , mdr2 , lxr , srebp - 1c and srebp - 2 in mouse liver from abcg8 + / + ( open bar ) , abcg8 + / - ( hatch bar ) and abcg8 - / - ( fill bar ) .
knockout mouse show an ~ 60 % reduction in mrna for abcg5 / sterolin - 1 and an 80 % reduction in the message for hmg coa reductase .
relatively no message for abcg8 / sterolin - 2 be detect in the knockout mouse .
panel ( b ) show the enzyme activity for hmg - coa reductase and cyp7a1 in liver from abcg8 + / + , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse .
activity of hmg - coa reductase and cyp7a1 be significantly reduce in the abcg8 - / - mouse liver ( *p < 0.05 , see text for discussion ) .
figure 5
n - glycosylation of abcg5 / sterolin - 1 analysis in abcg8 - / - mouse liver .
mouse liver homogenate stain with sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 after treatment with endo - h or pngasef show a 75 kda band present in both genotype , which be resistant to deglycosylation ( panel a ) .
staining of wild - type liver homogenate with preimmune serum show no detectable band .
low portion of panel ( a ) show the same aliquot stain for anti-transferrin a a control for deglycosylation .
amc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 staining of mouse liver homogenate show a ' mature ' ~ 90 kda band in the wild - type mouse but not in the abcg8 - / - mouse ( panel b ) .
a 75 kda form be present which be sensitive to deglycosylation .
mouse liver homogenate stain with utsw anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 show a ' mature ' ~ 90 kda band and an ' immature ' 75 kda band in the wild - type mouse but no signal be detect in the abcg8 - / - mouse .
treatment with endo - h or pngasef result in a low molecular weight protein in the wild - type mouse .
abcg5 / abcg8 - / - liver homogenate use for negative control .
figure 6
immunohistochemical evaluation of mouse abcg5 / sterolin - 1 expression in liver and intestine .
co - 1 cell be transiently transfected with pcmv - mouse abcg5 or pcmv - mouse abcg8 construct , allow to express for 48 hour then fix and incubate with antibody .
pcmv empty vector transfected co - 1 cell incubate with sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 show no significant fluorescence ( panel a ) .
abcg5 transfected co - 1 cell incubate with sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody show a membrane distribution ( panel b ) , where a abcg8 transfected cell incubate with sc anti-abcg5 antibody show no significant fluorescence ( panel c ) .
abcg5 and abcg8 co-transfected co - 1 cell incubate with sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody result in a fluorescence pattern similar to abcg5 alone ( panel d ) .
the yellow bar represent 20 μm .
wild - type intestine incubate with sc pre-immune serum ( panel e ) , or sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody pre-incubated with the block peptide ( panel f ) show no specific signal .
wild - type , abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - intestine ( panel g , h and i respectively ) incubate with sc anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody , show no difference in expression pattern , despite the loss of abcg8 / sterolin - 2 in the knockout mouse .
single arrowhead show intestinal villus and double arrowhead show crypt .
the yellow bar represent 50 μm .
antibody staining of liver section be also perform at the amc liver center .
a a control , an antibody to bsep / abcb11 be use and show a clear apical distribution in both wild - type ( panel j ) and abcg8 knockout mouse ( panel k ) .
use amc antibody against abcg5 / sterolin - 1 ( see text ) , in both wild - type ( panel l ) and abcg8 knockout liver ( panel m ) , the pattern of expression be also apical and unchanged although the signal be faint compare to that for bsep / abcb11 ( see text for discussion ) .
arrow indicate bile canaliculus .
figure 7
immunohistochemical evaluation of mouse abcg5 / sterolin - 1 expression in liver .
wild - type liver incubate with utsw anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 result in apical expression ( panel a ) .
merge image clearly show the apical distribution .
likewise abcg8 - / - liver incubate with the same utsw anti-abcg5 / sterolin - 1 antibody result in a similar apical expression pattern relative to the wild type ( panel b ) .
white arrow indicate bile canaliculus and asterisk indicate a bile duct .
the yellow bar represent 50 μm .
figure 8
biliary sterol , phospholipid and bile salt analysis .
bile salt , sterol and phospholipid content from male abcg8 + / + ( n = 8 ) , abcg8 + / - ( n = 7 ) , and abcg8 - / - ( n = 5 ) mouse be examine a describe in method .
bile salt secretion follow a 10 minute collection be low in abcg8 + / - and abcg8 - / - mouse compare to wild type ( panel a ) , but these difference be not statistically significant .
biliary sterol and phospholipid be significantly reduce in the abcg8 - / - mouse compare to the wild - type ( panel b and c ) .
*p < 0.05 .
the low panel show biliary bile salt , sterol and phospholipid secretion rate from female abcg8 + / + ( n = 5 ) , abcg8 + / - ( n = 4 ) , and abcg8 - / - ( n = 3 ) mouse measure follow 90 - minute bile salt depletion follow by stepwise tudc infusion a describe in the text .
bar represent phase tudc infusion rate .
no difference be observe in the ability of the abcg8 - / - mouse to secrete bile salt ( panel d ) , but there be a marked inability of the knockout mouse to secrete sterol ( panel e ) and a trend towards a reduce ability to secrete phospholipid ( panel f ) compare to wild type .
figure 9
biliary cholesterol and sitosterol secretion .
biliary sterol be analyze by gc analysis in abcg8 + / + ( n = 4 ) , abcg8 + / - ( n = 3 ) and abcg8 - / - ( n = 4 ) mouse follow 30 - minute bile salt depletion follow by a continuous tudc infusion a describe in method .
abcg8 - / - mouse be unable to secrete cholesterol into bile with force tudc administration relative to the wild - type mouse ( panel a , *p < 0.05 ) .
interestingly , the abcg8 - / - mouse be able to still secrete sitosterol ( panel b ) and campesterol ( panel c ) .
heterozygous mouse show an increase ability to secrete all sterol with force tudc administration , although the result be not statistically significant .
table 1
oligonucleotide primer use for quantitative rt - pcr
table 2
mouse plasma and tissue sterol analysis
animal use in these study be 12 week of age , a mixture of male and female and feed a regular chow diet .
*p < 0.05 for - / - versus + / + and - / - versus + / - .
nd , not detectable .
genome - wide isolation of growth and obesity qtl use mouse speed congenic strain
abstract
background
high growth ( hg ) modifier and background independent quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) affect growth , adiposity and carcass composition be previously identify on mouse chromosome ( mmu ) 1 , 2 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 .
to confirm and far characterize each qtl , two panel of speed congenic strain be develop by introgressing cast / eij ( cast ) qtl allele onto either mutant c57bl / 6j - hg / hg ( hg ) or wild type c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) genetic background .
result
the first speed congenic panel be develop by introgressing four overlap donor region span mmu2 in it entirety onto both hg and b6 background , for a total of eight strain .
phenotypic characterization of the mmu2 panel confirm the segregation of multiple growth and obesity qtl and strongly suggest that a subset of these locus modify the effect of the hg deletion .
the second panel consist of individual donor region on an hg background for each qtl on mmu 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 .
of the six develop strain , five be successfully characterize and display significant difference in growth and / or obesity a compare to control .
all five display phenotype similar to those originally attribute to each qtl , however , novel phenotype be unmask in several of the strain include sex - specific effect .
conclusion
the speed congenic strain develop herein constitute an invaluable genomic resource and provide the foundation to identify the specific nature of genetic variation influence growth and obesity .
background
the use of mouse model have provide valuable insight into the etiology of monogenic syndrome cause by single gene mutation .
however , such model do not mimic the genetic complexity of disease trait commonly see in the human population .
complex trait , such a polygenic growth and obesity be influence by the small to moderate direct effect of quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) , epistasis between qtl allele , environmental perturbation and qtl - environment interaction .
to date numerous mouse growth and obesity qtl have be localize [ 1 , 2 ] , however , little progress have be make in determine the specific nature of the underlie genetic variant .
one resource use to fine map qtl be congenic strain which be design to convert a complex polygenic trait into one that be mono - or oligogenic .
this be accomplish by eliminate segregate genetic variation outside the locus of interest and reduce the environmental variation influence a trait by characterize large number of genetically identical mouse .
the complex trait consortium ( ctc ) consider congenic analysis an excellent method to confirm and subsequently fine map qtl [ 3 ] .
traditionally , congenic strain be develop by introgressing qtl allele from a donor strain , whose boundary be define by genetic marker , on the genetic background of a recipient strain via 10 backcrosses [ 4 ] .
while technically straightforward this be a time consume endeavor take over three year to construct a single strain .
the speed congenic approach be an alternative to this lengthy process and can reduce the number of require backcrosses from 10 to five [ 5 , 6 ] .
this strategy use marker - assist selection to identify male mouse inherit few donor allele , than expect on average , during each backcross .
numerous traditionally develop and speed congenics have be use to successfully isolate mouse qtl for a wide array of trait , include growth and obesity [ 7 - 13 ] .
the c57bl / 6j - hg / hg ( hg ) mouse be a model of systemic overgrowth result from a spontaneous deletion on mmu10 , which eliminate expression of the socs2 ( suppressor of cytokine signaling 2 ) gene [ 14 - 16 ] .
the role of socs2 in the hg phenotype be confirm by an independently engineer socs2 - / - knockout mouse which share a number of phenotype in common with hg , include gigantism [ 17 ] .
qtl which alter the phenotypic effect of another locus be refer to a modifier qtl [ 18 ] .
modifier qtl have be map for numerous trait and in these study the modify locus be typically a know gene contain a spontaneously arise or engineer mutation with major phenotypic effect , such a hg [ 11 , 19 - 21 ] .
epistasis form the basis of these interaction , imply that the know gene and it modifier be member of the same biochemical or metabolic pathway .
different genetic background have be show to modify the growth - enhance effect of hg [ 15 , 22 ] .
since the primary function of socs2 be to negatively regulate growth hormone ( gh ) [ 23 ] , it be likely these background effect be the result of polymorphism influence interaction between member of the gh signaling pathway .
thus , identification of hg modifier have the potential to uncover novel member of metabolically important pathway or previously unknown convergence between pathway .
a an initial step , growth and carcass composition qtl be identify in a cross between cast / eij ( cast ) and hg [ 24 ] .
in the f2 , mouse homozygous for the hg deletion ( hg / hg ) and wild type ( + / + ) be assay and hg modifier qtl be define a those either absent in + / + mouse and segregate in hg / hg or locus with alter gene action dependent on background .
four hg modifier qtl ( wg2 on mmu2 , carfhg2 on mmu9 , carp2 on mmu11 and feml3 on mmu17 ) be identify , along with 12 additional qtl ( q1ucd1 on mmu1 ( which only reach a suggestive level of statistical significance ) , wg1 , carp1 , cara1 and feml1 on mmu2 , carfhg1 on mmu5 , wg3 on mmu8 , feml2 on mmu9 , wg4 and cara2 on mmu11 and carp3 and cara3 on mmu17 ) whose expression be independent of the hg locus .
in the current study we have develop speed congenic strain to isolate all the aforementioned qtl .
single strain on an hg background be create for each chromosomal region outside of mmu2 , while a comprehensive panel of overlap strain with identical donor region on both b6 and hg background be develop for mmu2 .
the mmu2 panel be develop to confirm the presence of multiple qtl and test for qtl - hg interaction .
additionally , base on the knowledge of potential qtl - hg interaction , gene involve in gh signaling , whose genomic location overlap hg modifier qtl on mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 , be sequence .
result
speed congenic strain development
two speed congenic panel be create , the first comprehensively dissect mmu2 while the second isolate qtl on mmu 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 ( table 1 ) .
the mmu2 panel consist of eight congenic strain develop by introgressing four overlap donor region onto both b6 and hg genetic background ( table 1 ) .
single donor region breed onto an hg background be create to isolate the remain qtl on mmu 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 .
implementation of a speed congenic approach use marker - assist breeding with 79 genome - wide microsatellite marker accelerate production of all strain [ 5 , 6 ] ( additional file 1 and figure 1 ) .
strain abbreviation and genomic region isolate by each strain be list in table 1 .
in addition to both congenic panel , two control strain homozygous b6 ( b6.castc ; b6c ) or hg ( hg.castc ; hgc ) for all genome - wide marker genotyped be develop from the same cross ( see method ) and serve a the basis for strain comparison .
after stabilize each congenic , 12 of 14 be phenotypically characterize for growth and adiposity .
the hg2d and hg5 strain be not characterize due to reproductive problem .
the recombinant end point for all strain be refine use microsatellite marker flank each donor region ( additional file 2 ) .
mmu2 speed congenic strain characterization
due to the overlap nature of the mmu2 congenics , five distinct chromosomal region ( region i – v ) be query for the presence of qtl ( figure 2 ) .
a a separate analysis we also test for interaction between each donor region and the two distinct genetic background .
the following section describe the phenotype for each b6.cast and hg.cast speed congenic strain as well a the result of the interaction analysis .
b6.cast mmu2 speed congenic strain
the b62d strain exhibit the large ( p < 0.0001 ) decrease in body weight of any b6.cast congenic ( additional file 3 ) .
both sex have reduction in weight at 2 ( 2wk ) , 3 ( 3wk ) , 6 ( 6wk ) and 9 ( 9wk ) week of age compare to control b6c mouse ( figure 3 ) .
despite large decrease in body weight , no difference in growth rate ( g26 , weight gain from 2 to 6 week and g29 , weight gain from 2 to 9 week ) be observe ( additional file 3 ) .
therefore , the b62d unique region ( region v ) harbor either an early - growth qtl or maternal genotype effect which produce a distinct decrease in body weight prior to 2wk .
these effect be evident in the growth curve for both sex of each strain ( figure 3 ) .
additionally , b62d mouse display significantly short tail length despite no difference in naso-anal length ( na ) ( table 2 ) .
in contrast , b62m mouse display small decrease in body weight and growth ( male 9wk be significant , female 6wk and 9wk be suggestive at p < 0.05 ) and significant decrease in na ( male p = 0.0152 ) and tail length ( additional file 3 and table 2 ) .
the decrease in na in b62m mouse be surprising since the 2m donor region be entirely nest within the 2d donor region and b62d mouse show no difference in na ( figure 2 ) .
these data indicate the presence of three qtl with the 2d unique region .
two of which be disjoin by the b62m and b62d strain and additively decrease body weight and tail length , but not na .
the third qtl , locate within the b62d unique region ( region v ) , increase na cancel the effect of the b62m qtl ( region iv ) decrease na .
b62pm female have decrease in all growth - relate trait except 2wk and 3wk , while no difference be see in male ( additional file 3 ) .
similarly , only b62p female and not male show significant decrease in 9wk , g26 and g29 ( additional file 3 ) , indicate these two strain share a female specific growth qtl ( region ii ) .
in the original genome scan body fat percentage a determine by chemical compositional analysis be not link to marker on mmu2 [ 24 ] .
however , since numerous obesity qtl have be find on mmu2 [ 2 ] , some of which be discover in b6 by cast cross [ 9 , 25 ] , we choose to measure dissect fat pad weight a a more sensitive measure of adiposity .
table 2 list the weight of gonadal ( gfp ) , femoral ( ffp ) , mesenteric ( mfp ) and retroperitoneal ( rfp ) fat pad , along with total fat pad weight ( sum of the four fat pad ) , adiposity index ( ai = tf / weight at sacrifice ( wsac ) ) and body mass index ( bmi = wsac / na2 * 100 ) for each mmu2 congenic strain .
similar to large difference in body weight the b62d strain display highly significant decrease in adiposity .
b62d be the only strain where both sex have significant decrease in tf , ai and bmi .
interestingly , no difference in adiposity be see in b62m mouse .
this discordance indicate the leanness promote qtl be locate in the b62d unique region ( region v ) .
only minor difference in various fat pad weight be observe for the b62p and b62pm strain ( table 2 ) .
hg.cast mmu2 speed congenic panel
hg2p and hg2pm mouse of both sex display significant decrease in post-weaning body weight and growth rate ( additional table 3 ) .
in addition , the hg2m strain display highly significant decrease in length , similar to b62m mouse ( table 2 ) .
these result indicate qtl within region ii share between the hg2p and hg2pm strain decrease body size , weight gain and na ( only in female ) , while a qtl in the hg2m region significantly decrease tail length .
similar to growth trait a general decrease in gfp , mfp , rfp , tf and ai be see in hg2p and hg2pm mouse ( region ii ) ( table 2 ) .
these difference in adiposity be likely pleiotropic effect of the growth qtl share between these two strain .
surprisingly , hg2m mouse display striking sex difference in adiposity .
male exhibit an increase in ai ( p = 0.0256 ) with a decrease in bmi ( p = 0.0462 ) and the exact opposite be see in female ( ai , p < 0.0001 ; bmi , p = 0.0425 ) ( table 2 ) .
therefore , the obesity qtl in the hg2m unique region ( region iv ) be profoundly impact by the presence of hg .
confirmation of qtl - hg interaction
an important feature of our experimental design be the ability to test for interaction between qtl in each mmu2 donor region and genotype at the hg locus , since identical donor region be introgressed on two genetic background , b6 ( + / + ) and hg ( hg / hg ) .
significant interaction between donor region and hg genotype be view a strong evidence that hg modifier qtl reside within that unique genomic region .
in the original linkage analysis the mode of gene action and peak location of wg2 be dependent on the presence of hg [ 24 ] ( table 1 ) .
in the present study , only homozygous congenic mouse be characterize , thus , the overdominant effect of wg2 be not test .
however , since it original peak location differ dependent on background we hypothesize that wg2 represent a set of link qtl between 74.9 and 181.8 mbp within the 2m and 2d donor region ( region iii – v ) , some of which interact with hg .
follow this logic we expect one or both of these strain would exhibit donor region by hg genotype interaction .
unfortunately , we be unable to characterize hg2d mouse .
however , a note above , strong sex - specific effect be see in hg2m mouse .
significant 2m donor region by hg genotype by sex three - way interaction for ai ( p = 0.0004 ; figure 4 ) and tf be identify ( table 3 ) .
the basis of these interaction be a decrease in hg2m female and an increase in hg2m male adiposity , with no difference in fat accumulation across b62m sex .
significant 2pm donor region by hg genotype two - way and 2pm donor region by hg genotype by sex three - way interaction be also see for tf and ai ( table 3 ) .
in addition , significant 2p donor region × hg genotype interaction be observe for all trait list , although some trait do reach significance at the critical p < 0.0071 ( table 3 ) .
the basis for each interaction be a decrease in phenotype in hg2p compare to hgc and no difference between b62p and b6c .
together these data confirm that mmu2 qtl modify the effect of the hg deletion .
speed congenic strain for qtl on mmu 1 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17
hg1
q1ucd1 affect g26 be the least significant of any qtl identify in the original intercross and only reach a suggestive level of significance ( lod = 2.46 , p < 0.05 ) [ 26 ] .
in accordance , hg1 mouse have small difference in all growth and length trait .
na in both sex and 2wk , 3wk , 6wk and tail length in female be significant at a critical p < 0.005 ( table 4 ) .
the only difference in adiposity be a significant decrease in male mfp ( table 5 ) .
the successful capture and confirmation of the small effect q1ucd1 - w26 qtl add support to pursue qtl identify at suggestive level of statistical confidence from genome scan .
hg8
marker on mmu8 be link with g29 in the original intercross [ 24 ] .
this qtl be small , only account for 4.3 % of the phenotypic variance .
interestingly , in hg8 mouse no difference in growth be detect ; however , they be significantly lean than control ( table 5 ) .
in male a general decrease in fat pad mass , tf and ai be detect ; however , only mfp be significant at a critical p < 0.005 .
male ai be nearly significant at a nominal p = 0.0082 .
large decrease in fat mass be see in hg8 female , with significant decrease detect for gfp , mfp and ai .
additionally , rfp and tf be nearly significant with nominal p value of 0.0208 and 0.0153 , respectively .
hg8 mouse represent a lean congenic model in which cast allele protect against fat accumulation .
hg9
cast allele in the proximal region of mmu9 be previously find to be link with an increase in body fat percentage and a decrease in femur length [ 24 ] .
the effect appear to be the result of two link qtl , carfhg2 at 10 cm and feml2 at 20 cm , instead of one pleiotropically impact both trait ( table 1 ) .
in support of this , the increase in fat be dependent on hg ; however , difference in femur length be not [ 24 ] .
in confirmation of carfhg2 all measure of adiposity in hg9 mouse be increase relative to control mouse ; except mfp in both sex and bmi in male ( table 5 ) .
in male , gfp , rfp , ffp and ai be increase by 29.0 % , 51.2 % , 42.9 % and 30.0 % , respectively .
in female these increase be much large .
the same measurement be increase by 68.8 % , 99.4 % , 69.7 % and 57.3 % , relative to hgc female .
a 2.9 % and 3.6 % reduction in male and female na , respectively , be also detect .
this be expect since na be previously find to be an excellent indicator of femur length ( r2 = 0.88 ) in hg mouse [ 27 ] and a note above this region contain the feml2 qtl [ 24 ] .
these data confirm the effect of carfhg2 on adiposity and feml2 on length and indicate the isolate effect of carfhg2 be more significant than originally observe .
hg11
in the original intercross cast allele near 50 cm on mmu11 be link with a reduction in g29 , carcass ash ( ash ) and carcass protein ( prot ) [ 24 ] .
therefore , we measure each carcass component use chemical compositional analysis in the hgc , hg11 and hg17 strain .
originally , carp2 be dependent on the presence of hg and no significant sex effect be detect [ 24 ] .
in contrast to those result , hg11 mouse display significant difference in growth and obesity between the sex .
in general , male demonstrate a 5 % increase and female a 5 % decrease in all growth - relate trait ( table 4 ) .
most of these difference , however , be not significant at a critical p < 0.005 , although almost all be at a nominal p < 0.05 .
follow the same trend , male display an increase in tail length and a small suggestive increase in na ( p = 0.06 ) , while female display significant decrease in na .
in support of the sex - specific qtl effect strain by sex interaction ( p < 0.04 ) be see for the following growth trait : 3wk , 6wk , 9wk , g26 , g29 and na ( data not show ) .
the basis of each interaction be an increase in the male and a decrease in female .
in our analysis of the hgc , hg11 and hg17 strain , concordant result be observe measure adiposity use chemical lipid extraction and weigh fat pad mass .
the phenotypic correlation between carcass fat ( fat ) a a percent of the empty carcass weight ( ecw ; weight of total body ( include organ ) minus the head and gastrointestinal tract ) ( % fat ) determine by chemical analysis and ai , use data from all three line ( hgc , hg11 and hg17 ) , be 0.92 .
these data suggest that individual fat pad dissection be an excellent proxy for measure whole body adiposity and provide a much more sensitive technique to measure fat accumulation in specific body region .
hg11 female display slight increase in all fat pad ( except mfp ) and ai , although , only the 16.5 % increase in ai be significant ( table 5 ) .
in contrast , hg11 male do not show a difference in fat mass lead to a significant strain by sex interaction ( p = 0.008 ) for ai ( data not show ) .
identical to the result obtain use fat pad weight ; female hg11 carcass display an increase in % fat ( table 6 ) .
hg11 male carcass have high level carcass ash ( ash ) a a percent of ecw ( % ash ) and female carcass display low level of h2o and ash ( table 6 ) .
strain by sex interaction ( p < 0.005 ) be identify for h2o , % h2o , % fat , ash and prot ( data not show ) .
if the aggregate phenotype in hg11 be due to a single locus , it function may be to disrupt energy partitioning by decrease the deposition of lean tissue and increase lipid accumulation in female , while have the opposite action in male .
however , it may also be due to distinct sex - specific qtl with oppose action .
hg17
in the original intercross cast allele at mmu17 marker be associate with decrease in femur length , ash and prot [ 24 ] and similar result be see in hg17 mouse .
interestingly , both sex be heavy at 2wk ( male , p = 0.0045 ; female , p = 0.0342 ) , but light at 9wk , lead to substantially low g26 and g29 ( table 4 ) .
in general growth difference range between 5 % and 15 % low in congenic mouse .
both sex have significant reduction in length trait relative to control mouse .
na be reduce by 2.7 % ( p = 0.0186 ) and 3.4 % in male and female , respectively ( table 4 ) .
in addition , tail be reduce by approximately 6 % in both sex ( table 4 ) .
in general , hg17 mouse display increase in all fat pad ( except mfp ) , tf and ai ( table 5 ) .
however , none of these difference be significant at critical p < 0.005 .
in addition , hg17 male carcass possess low level of h2o and ash , while female carcass contain low level of % h2o , ash , % ash and % prot ( table 6 ) .
mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 hg modifier candidate gene sequencing
the hg phenotype be due to the deletion of socs2 , therefore we reason that qtl on mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 interact with hg possibly represent variation within gene participate in various aspect of gh function .
to select candidate gene for sequencing we identify gene know to be or potentially involve in gh signaling , be responsive to gh or that propagate downstream gh function .
forty - four hg modifier candidate gene be identify from primary literature , review and book chapter and coordinate use the genmapp ( gene microarray pathway profiler ) pathway building software ( figure 5 ) .
the coding region of each gene be sequence from the cast strain and compare to the publicly available b6 sequence to identify polymorphism ( additional file 4 ) .
a total of 94.492 kbp be sequence ( 75.378 kbp cd and 19.114 kbp 5 ' and 3 ' untranslated region ( utr ) ) , represent 25,083 amino acid .
comparison with the public b6 assembly ( may 2004 university of california , santa cruz ( ucsc [ 28 ] ) mm5 genome assembly , national center for biotechnology information ( ncbi ) build 33 ) identify 307 polymorphism between cast and b6 .
of these , 295 be single nucleotide polymorphism ( snp ) and 12 be insertion or deletion in cast ( additional file 4 ) .
all 12 insertion or deletion be locate within 5 ' and 3 ' utrs .
fifty - six nonsynonomous snp ( nssnp ) be identify in 14 different gene ( additional file 4 ) .
polyphen [ 29 ] and sift [ 30 ] be software program design to identify nssnp which potentially alter protein function by evaluate evolutionary conservation at specific amino acid residue use a multiple sequence alignment of protein sequence homologous to the query .
when apply to our data set polyphen , sift or both program predict that 15 of the 56 nssnp in 9 different gene would possibly alter protein function ( table 7 ) .
discussion
speed congenic strain provide a powerful approach to confirm and physically confine qtl within interval define by molecular marker .
in the current study , approximately 20 % of the cast genome harbor all previously detect growth and carcass composition qtl be isolate on an hg or b6 background through the development of 14 speed congenic strain .
two distinct speed congenic panel be develop , the first provide a comprehensive isolation of all mmu2 qtl between the b6 , hg and cast strain and the second target all qtl outside of mmu2 .
each successfully characterize strain exhibit phenotypic difference relative to control mouse .
these strain represent important resource and provide the genetic resource to positionally clone numerous quantitative trait gene .
one criticism of the speed congenic approach be the potential for qtl to reside among unwanted donor allele not eliminate during backcrossing .
in this case difference between the congenic and control strain would be due in part or whole to these contaminate allele .
we take several precaution to reduce the probability of this occurrence .
first , our control strain be develop from mouse undergo the same selection a all of the other congenics .
therefore , it be possible that any unwanted qtl or mutation arise during congenic construction be share between all strain .
more importantly , we have knowledge of all large previously detect growth and obesity qtl in the current cross [ 24 ] .
use this information we increase the density of marker in each qtl region ( mmu 1 , 2 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 ; table 1 and additional file 1 ) , ensure the absence of cast allele at each of these qtl .
this approach , term " qtl - marker - assist counter selection " or qmacs , have be previously use to characterize qtl for hypnotic sensitivity to ethanol [ 31 ] .
in that study , only marker flank qtl be type , not genome - wide marker .
in contrast , we select not only against know qtl , we also screen for genome wide heterozygosity increase the probability that effect observe be due to genetic variation within each donor region .
although great effort be put forth to eliminate non-donor region direct genetic effect , other factor such a maternal genotype ( maternal genotype for each congenic versus control dam differ ) and environmental effect could confound our result .
maternal genotype effect on growth and obesity have be observe in a number of mouse cross [ 8 , 32 - 35 ] and their existence in the current cross can not be discount .
however , our congenics provide the ideal foundation genomic resource to test for the influence of any of these possible effect .
future fine mapping experiment can be design to randomize the influence of any contaminate donor allele and environmental difference , as well a test for maternal genotype effect .
mmu2 be a hotspot for growth and obesity qtl .
over 30 qtl have be identify in various experiment [ 1 , 2 ] .
several previously report or novel mmu2 qtl have be isolate and characterize use congenic strain [ 7 , 9 - 11 , 36 ] .
our finding be no different and indicate that mmu2 be highly complex with regard to gene affect growth and obesity .
the overlap nature of our mmu2 strain allow u to parse the chromosome into five region ( region i – v ) ( figure 2 ) .
the data support the presence of at least one qtl in each of the five region ( figure 2 ) .
each of the five pleiotropically impact both growth and obesity , although to vary degree .
in addition to the large number of mmu2 qtl , the presence of hg add complexity by either elicit interaction with the same qtl or by induce the expression of novel qtl .
the 2p unique region ( region i ) contain an hg modifier with large effect on growth and small effect on obesity ( table 3 ) .
in contrast , interaction between 2pm / 2m qtl and hg primarily affect fat deposition ( table 3 ) .
a illustrate in figure 4 the 2m donor region exhibit strong sex effect on the rate of lipid storage , dependent on background .
in control mouse , hgc female have a high ai than male , while the opposite be see in b6c mouse .
interestingly , the 2m hg modifier qtl abolish the hg induce sexual dimorphism in adiposity ( figure 4 ) .
although these result provide insight into the nature of hg modifier qtl , it should be note , that the actual number and precise location of locus be still unclear .
in addition to mmu2 , three other congenics ( hg9 , hg11 and hg17 ) capture hg modifier qtl .
in classical term , they be qtl which modify the expressivity of growth and obesity in hg mouse [ 18 ] .
these qtl be novel since they represent epistasis between hg and the modifier gene .
qtl - hg epistasis imply that socs2 and the hg modifier be in the same biological pathway .
therefore , these qtl be likely due to polymorphism in gene interact with gh , responsive to gh or which in some way modulate gh function .
this information will significantly aid qtl cloning by provide another filter to screen candidate .
clone these qtl have major implication to improve our understanding of gh and it regulation of growth and adiposity and in the administration of human gh therapeutic .
hg1 mouse display difference only in growth trait .
originally , q1ucd1 have small effect and these result illustrate the power of congenic strain analysis to isolate small effect qtl , although it be likely this qtl represent the low boundary of detection use only 20 – 30 congenic mouse .
the most notable candidate gene locate within the hg1 interval be the signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 ( stat1 ) and stat4 .
two of the congenics have major alteration in the deposition of adipose tissue , hg8 and hg9 .
the hg8 donor region promote leanness .
congenic female display a reduction of over 25 % in ai .
in contrast , the hg9 strain be an obese mouse model .
the strain be quite novel for two reason .
first , the effect size be large ; ai be 57 % high in hg9 female and 30 % high in male .
secondly , it be dependent on hg for it expression .
the hg9 strain represent a major epistasis - base obese mouse model and promise to aid in the understanding of obesity and specifically the modulation of adipose tissue deposition by gh .
study be currently underway to identify the causative mutation and to characterize the effect of age and diet on obesity in this strain as well a testing for other physiological consequence such a alteration in food intake and insulin sensitivity .
the hg11 strain be of particular interest for a number of reason .
first , hg11 congenic mouse demonstrate significant strain by sex interaction for a number of trait .
male be generally large , fast grow and long and the converse be see in female .
the confound effect of sex be likely the reason for the discrepancy between the congenic and genome scan result , where both sex be analyze together .
secondly , carp2 be find to interact with hg and mmu11 be saturate with gene involve in the central gh intracellular signaling pathway , such a gh , stat5b and stat5a .
thirdly , mmu11 growth qtl overlap hg11 have be identify in a number of cross use different mouse strain [ 37 - 41 ] .
give the well document sexually dimorphic nature of gh secretion and gh induce gene expression [ 42 , 43 ] , it be probable that the underlie mutation in the hg11 congenic may reside in a gene enhance gh induce sex - specific effect .
the structural gh gene itself and stat5b be excellent candidate .
the potential role of gh would include polymorphism that alter protein function in the absence of socs2 or that cause transcriptional deregulation of gh .
additionally , functional variation in stat5b may explain the sex - specific phenotype in hg11 mouse since it be the primary transcription factor responsible for gh induce sex - specific liver gene expression [ 44 ] .
future study aim at identify the hg11 qtg , will certainly include a thorough characterization of gh and stat5b sequence and expression pattern in congenic mouse .
the hg modifier qtl locate within the hg17 strain have large effect on growth , body length and carcass component .
the most intriguing candidate gene locate in the congenic be sstr5 .
somatostatin be a potent inhibitor of gh and sstr5 be one of five receptor which mediate these effect [ 45 , 46 ] .
ubiquitous and pancreatic beta cell specific knockout of sstr5 lead to alteration in insulin secretion and glucose homeostasis [ 47 , 48 ] .
we sequence candidate hg modifier gene to complement the characterization of the speed congenics on mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 .
a limited number of study have identify variation within cast coding sequence ; so sequence candidate give u the opportunity to estimate the snp frequency in coding sequence relative to b6 .
this information will be vital to future fine mapping study , which will include gene expression analysis .
the high snp frequency ( 0.312 % ; 295 snp in 94.492 kbp ) in cast gene may lead to a high rate of false positive use dna microarrays or quantitative real - time pcr assay , most of which be base on b6 sequence .
therefore , these sequence data can be use to guide the development of gene expression assay to confirm differential expression for candidate and suggest that gene identify by downstream experiment should also be sequence .
more importantly , sequence hg modifier candidate allow u to identify nonsynonomous polymorphism , which may underlie qtl .
sift and / or polyphen predict alteration in protein function for 15 of the 56 total nssnp ( 27 % ) in nine of the 44 total gene ( 20 % ) ( table 7 ) .
it have be show that predict function base on evolutionary conservation use program such a sift and polyphen be very accurate [ 49 ] .
four of the nine gene ( ubr1 , ptpns1 , ubce7ip5 and mmp9 ; all of which be on mmu2 ) be of particular interest .
it have be suggest the socs2 may rely on ubiquitination dependent proteasomal degradation to inhibit gh signaling [ 23 ] .
ubr1 and ubce7ip5 be both involve in protein ubiquitination and ubr1 knockout mouse show an 20 % decrease in body weight partly due to a reduction in adipose tissue [ 50 , 51 ] .
ptpns1 knockout mouse display a 10 % reduction in body weight [ 52 ] and mmp9 knockout mouse show a reduction in size and drastically reduce bone length [ 53 ] .
all of these gene be excellent functional and positional hg modifier candidate gene and this information can be incorporate into future fine mapping study .
conclusion
the speed congenic strain develop herein confirm previously identify genome - wide qtl affect growth , obesity and carcass composition .
our novel congenic development approach on mmu2 provide confirmation of qtl - hg interaction , which will significantly aid in future fine mapping experiment .
the identification of the molecular mediator of qtl - hg epistasis as well a the qtg for the remain congenics will provide essential information on the molecular genetic architecture of growth and obesity .
method
mouse strain and husbandry
cast / eij ( stock # 000928 ) mouse be purchase from the jackson laboratory .
the hg mutation be originally identify in a select outcross line [ 22 ] and have be introgressed onto a b6 background via nine backcrosses to create the hg strain .
hg mouse use in this experiment be from the 17th or late generation of inbreeding .
mouse be house in polycarbonate cage under control condition of temperature ( 21 °c ± 2 °c ) , humidity ( 40 – 70 % ) and lighting ( 14 h light , 10 h dark , light on at 7 am ) , and manage accord to the guideline of the american association for accreditation of laboratory animal care ( aaalac ) .
genotyping
dna for genotyping be isolate from 1.0 – 2.0 mm tail clip by digest with proteinase k ( fisher ) at 55 °c in a buffer compose of 0.45 % np40 ( sigma ) , 0.45 % tween 20 ( fisher ) and 1x pcr buffer ( promega ) .
the product of this digestion be dilute ( 1 : 10 ) in sterile h2o and use for genotyping without further purification .
microsatellite genotyping be perform use standard pcr and gel electrophoresis protocol .
reaction condition for each marker be list in additional file 1 and 2 .
mmu2 congenic mouse be genotyped for hg use a two primer genotyping assay .
one primer set ( hg - f , ctcctgtctgggctgtgag and hg - r , caaaggcagaagtggggtaa ) span the hg deletion produce a 447 bp product in hg / hg and + / hg mouse .
the other set ( cradd3a.f , gtccatcagcattcctgaaa and cradd3.r , tgtccagcaacagcattgtc ) amplify a 232 bp cradd amplicon ( locate within the hg deletion ) in + / + and + / hg mouse [ 54 ] .
the pcr anneal temperature be 55 °c and the mgcl2 concentration be 1.5 mm .
development of b6.cast and hg.cast mmu2 speed congenic strain
all speed congenic strain be develop start with an initial cross between a cast male and hg female ( figure 1 ) [ 5 , 6 ] .
male f1 mouse be then backcross to hg female .
all agouti ( the dominant nonagouti ( a ) locus be locate at 154.8 mbp on mmu2 ) n2 male be genotyped for 79 microsatellite marker ( additional file 1 ) .
these marker be evenly space across the genome , except in region previously identify a harbor qtl [ 1 ] , which be more densely screen .
the " best " n2 agouti male with the low level of genome - wide unwanted heterozygosity while maintain cast allele for all mmu2 marker be select for breeding .
this selection scheme be use at each generation until a n4 male be identify a homozygous hg for all marker type outside mmu2 .
after an additional backcross to hg female , recombinant male be identify provide the foundation for the four overlap donor region .
select recombinant male be then backcross to both b6 and hg female to create strain , which be b6 ( + / + ) or hg ( hg / hg ) and heterozygous congenic .
these mouse be intermated to produce homozygous founder for each strain .
this novel breed scheme create four identical founder congenics on two background b6 ( + / + ) and hg ( hg / hg ) , which form the basis for our examination of interaction cause by the presence of the hg deletion .
mmu2 speed congenic strain be maintain through brother - sister mating .
once each congenic be stabilize , 20 additional microsatellite marker be use to refine the position of each congenic recombinant end point ( additional file 2 ) .
development of hg.cast speed congenic strain for mmu 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17
all black n2 male from the first two cross describe above be genotyped for 12 marker ( d1mit432 , - 480 , d5mit353 , - 311 , d9mit60 , - 262 , d11mit5 , - 67 , d8mit234 , - 211 and d17mit28 and - 142 ) , two span each of the six qtl harbor region ( mmu 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 ; table 1 and additional file 1 ) .
marker be select to capture , at a minimum , the 2 - lod support interval .
two n2 male be select to propagate the n3 generation ; one heterozygous for qtl on mmu 1 and 9 and the other heterozygous for qtl on mmu 5 , 8 , 11 and 17 ( figure 1 ) .
both male be homozygous for hg allele at all other know qtl .
these male be backcross to hg female and two of the result n3 male inherit the same set of qtl a their sire be select for breeding .
these male be subsequently backcross to hg female and three n4 male be identify heterozygous for the follow region : 1 ) mmu 1 and 9 ; 2 ) mmu 5 and 11 ; 3 ) mmu 8 , 11 and 17 ( figure 1 ) .
start at n4 and continue through n6 , the " best " male with the low percent of unwanted donor allele be select after perform a genome scan use the remain 67 genome - wide marker ( 79 total marker minus the 12 marker genotyped in the first two backcrosses span the know qtl interval ) .
at n5 a distinct strain be create for each of the six individual donor region and heterozygous mouse be intermated ( figure 1 ) .
homozygous hg.cast speed congenic strain be maintain through brother - sister mating .
once each congenic be stabilize , 19 additional microsatellite marker be use to refine the position of each congenic recombinant end point ( additional file 2 ) .
development of b6.castc and hg.castc control strain
hg be a strain in which the hg deletion have be introgressed onto a b6 background , therefore the only genetic difference between the strain would be the hg locus , tightly link allele from the outbred strain on which hg arise and contaminate allele remain after the nine backcrosses and fix during inbreeding .
instead of use parental b6 and hg strain a control for phenotypic comparison with each speed congenic , we choose to develop independent control strain originate from the same cross a the congenic panel .
separate b6.cast control ( b6c ) and hg.cast control ( hgc ) strain be develop use mouse from the mmu2 experiment .
mouse from the last backcross inherit only b6 or hg mmu2 allele at marker span mmu2 be intermated to serve a the basis for each control .
both control strain be subsequently maintain through brother - sister mating .
the control strain be coisogenic with the parental b6 or hg strain with the exception of mutation that arise during congenic construction and a small percentage of contaminate donor allele miss after 6 backcrosses .
therefore , since the congenics and control be develop through the same selection scheme and possibly share common contaminate region , the b6c and hgc strain be the most ideal control to compare each congenic .
phenotypic characterization
trait data be collect on approximately 40 mouse ( 20 of each sex ) from each congenic and control strain .
to eliminate parity and reduce litter size effect only progeny from uniparous dam be characterize and all litter be standardize to 5 – 7 pup / litter .
mouse be wean at 3 week of age .
feed ( purina 5008 ; 23.5 % protein , 6.5 % fat , 3.3 kcal / g ) and water be offer ad libitum .
mouse be weigh to the near 0.1 g at 2wk , 3wk , 6wk , and 9wk of age .
at 9wk ( ± 5 day ) mouse be anesthetize under isoflurane and nasal - anal length ( na ) and nasal - tail ( nt ) be measure to the near mm .
tail length be calculate a na minus nt .
anesthetize mouse be then sacrifice by decapitation and exsanguinated .
femoral fat pad ( ffp ) , gonadal fat pad ( gfp ) , mesenteric fat pad ( mfp ) and retroperitoneal fat pad ( rfp ) be remove and weigh to the near mg .
chemical compositional analysis be perform for hgc , hg11 and hg17 carcass a previously describe with slight modification [ 24 ] .
briefly , after weigh each fat pad be return to the carcass .
the entire gastrointestinal ( gi ) tract be subsequently remove and carcass be again weigh .
this represent the empty carcass weight ( ecw ) .
carcass be label and secure in two layer of cheesecloth ( fisher ) and freeze at - 20 °c until analysis .
at this time , carcass be freeze - dry for seven day and water content be determine by subtract the freeze - dry weight from ecw .
fat be then extract with ether for 7 day , follow by acetone for an additional 7 day in a soxhlet apparatus .
carcass ash ( ash ) be determine measure the remains after a 16 hour incineration at 575 °c .
carcass protein ( prot ) be calculate a the remain portion after carcass fat ( fat ) and ash be subtract from ecw .
statistical analysis
the mean and univariate procedure of sa be use to generate descriptive statistic and test normality assumption for each trait [ 55 ] .
all data be then analyze use the glm procedure of sa [ 55 ] with a linear model that include the fix effect of strain , sex and strain by sex interaction ; dam 's weight at breeding by strain be use a a covariate .
a second linear model be use to test for strain by hg genotype ( + / + or hg / hg ) interaction .
this model include the fix effect of donor region , sex and hg genotype and all possible two and three - way interaction .
choose a nominal p value of 0.05 and apply the bonferroni correction for multiple comparison establish significant difference in the anova 's .
the critical p value use be indicate in each table .
identification of candidate gene
gene be identify by manual data mining of primary literature , review and book chapter .
to organize and collate genomic and functional information for each gene we create a custom gh signaling gene map annotator and pathway profiler ( genmapp ) pathway [ 56 ] ( figure 5 ) .
visualization and color - cod of gene use genmapp aid the selection of candidate gene map within qtl region on mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 .
candidate gene sequencing
pcr amplicons cover the coding sequence and partial 5 ' and 3 ' untranslated region for each select candidate gene be amplify , purify and sequence from the cast strain use protocol outline in [ 57 ] with slight modification .
total rna from brain , liver , spleen , lung and testis be isolate from an adult cast male mouse use trizol ( ambion ) .
cdna be produce from total rna use standard procedure .
pcr primer set for each gene be design use primer3 [ 58 ] ( additional file 5 ) .
the initial amplification be perform in 10 μl pcr reaction use the invitrogen platinum taqpcrx amplification system ( invitrogen ) .
the reaction contain 1x pcr buffer , 1x enhancer solution , 1.5 mm mgso4 , 0.17 mm dntps , 1 μm each primer , 0.1 unit of platinum taq ( invitrogen ) and approximately 25 ng of cdna .
reaction be incubate for 5 min at 95 °c , then cycle for 45 s at 95 °c , 45 s at 55 °c , 1 min at 72 °c for 35 cycle with a final 72 °c extension for 10 min on a mj research ptc - 200 .
the product be visualize on 1.5 % agarose gel contain 0.06 μg / ml etbr .
band of the correct size be excise and incubate in 100 μl of sterile h2o at 80 °c for 10 min to elute dna .
reamplification reaction consist of 1x pcr buffer , 1.5 mm mgcl2 , 0.17 mm dntps , 1 μm each primer , 0.1 unit of taq ( promega ) and 10 μl of eluate in a total volume of 50 μl .
the same cycling parameter be use for reamplification reaction .
product be visualize on 1 % 0.5x tbe agarose gel contain 0.06 μg / ml etbr , excise and purfied use pcr purification column ( promega ) .
to quantity each fragment 1 μl of each purify product be run on a 1.0 % agarose gel contain 0.06 μg / ml etbr , along with a dna mass ladder ( invitrogen ) .
in a 96 well plate , 15 ng of each pcr product be add to 5 pm of primer for sequencing .
the college of agriculture and environmental science ( caes ) genomics facility at the university of california , davis , perform bidirectional sequencing of each amplicon .
sequence analysis
b6 mrna sequence for each gene be download from the may 2004 ( mm5 ) ucsc ( ncbi build 33 ) genome assembly [ 28 ] .
these sequence be import along with all cast sequence trace into the seqman sequence assembly program ( dnastar ) and manually curated for quality .
poor quality read be resequenced .
individual contigs be create for each gene and polymorphism be detect and curated by manual inspection .
author ' contribution
crf and jfm conceive the study .
crf develop and characterize each speed congenic strain , assist with phenotypic data analysis and draft the manuscript .
pmc assist with experimental design and phenotypic data analysis .
jfm assist in the evaluation of experimental result and the manuscript and provide coordination of the project .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
supplementary material
additional file 1
table of microsatellite marker use in the construction of b6.cast and hg.cast speed congenic strain
click here for file
additional file 2
table of microsatellite marker use to position the recombinant end of each speed congenic strain
click here for file
additional file 3
table of body weight and growth rate phenotype of b6.cast and hg.cast mmu2 speed congenic strain
click here for file
additional file 4
table of result of sequence comparison between cast and b6 for mmu2 hg modifier candidate gene
click here for file
additional file 5
table of pcr primer use to sequence mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 hg modifier candidate gene
click here for file
acknowledgement
we thank vince de vera for mouse care and alma islas - trejo , kerri morimoto , gonzalo rincon , ricardo verdugo , karina guevara , james chitwood , lee nguyen , galen williams and emily farber for assistance with mouse phenotyping .
we also thank scott taylor and dr. ed depeters for assistance and use of the ucd animal science nutrition laboratory for carcass composition analysis .
this work be support by the national research initiative of the usda cooperative state research , education and extension service , grant number 2005 – 35205 – 15453 .
crf be support by the austin eugene lyon fellowship .
figure and table
figure 1
outline of the speed congenic approach use to capture genome - wide growth and obesity qtl .
detail of the congenic mating be outline in " method " .
the mating use to construct the mmu2 speed congenic panel be list on the left of the figure , along with the expect and observe % heterozygosity at each generation .
% heterozygosity be define a the number of marker heterozygous b6 ( or hg ) / cast a a percent of the total number of marker type ( n = 79 ) .
the right side of the illustration list the mating use to construct the mmu 1 , 5 , 8 , 9 , 11 and 17 speed congenic strain , along with the expect and observe % heterozygosity at each generation .
figure 2
genome - wide speed congenic strain and summary of qtl effect .
white bar indicate the boundary of cast donor region and hatch bar indicate interval of unknown genotype .
the minimum physical interval ( mbp ) of each donor region be list in table 1 .
to provide a general summary of the result , mmu2 be divide into five chromosomal region ( i , ii , iii , iv and v ) .
phenotypic difference for male and female ( + / + and hg / hg ) mouse relative to the appropriate control be list .
for congenics outside of mmu2 , a general summary of qtl effect be list to the right of each donor region .
abbreviation : wt , body weight ; gr , growth rate ; t , tail length ; na , nasal - anal body length ; tf , total weight of four fat pad ; ai , adiposity index and bmi , body mass index .
figure 3
growth curve for mmu2 b6.cast and hg.cast speed congenic strain .
body weight lsmeans ± sem be plot a a function of time ( week ) .
top plot , growth curve in male b6 ( + / + ) and hg ( hg / hg ) speed congenic strain ; bottom plot , growth curve in female b6 ( + / + ) and hg ( hg / hg ) speed congenic strain .
figure 4
significant three - way donor region by hg genotype by sex interaction for ai in the 2m donor region .
ai plot illustrate the effect of the hg deletion on alter fat deposition between the sex .
the interaction be significant at p = 0.0004 .
figure 5
genmapp growth hormone ( gh ) signaling pathway .
gene know to be or potentially involve in gh signaling be mine from primary literature , review and book chapter .
gene be organize broadly base on functionality .
mmu genomic position for each gene be to the right of each symbol and gene locate on mmu 2 , 9 , 11 and 17 be highlight in yellow , purple , orange and green , respectively .
gene locate on mmux be label in white .
forty - four of the gene overlap qtl interval be select for sequencing in the cast strain .
table 1
b6.cast and hg.cast speed congenic strain develop to isolate and characterize genome - wide qtl affect growth and obesity
qtl , quantitative trait locus ; mmu , mouse chromosome ; lod , log of the odds
a qtl mgi [ 59 ] nomenclature .
q1ucd1 - w26 never receive an official mgi name , because it only reach a suggestive level of significance ; hg modifier qtl be in bold [ 24 ] .
b mbp position accord to the august 2005 mm7 ucsc [ 28 ] genome assembly ( ncbi build 35 ) , peak lod from [ 24 ] .
c in the linkage analysis perform in [ 24 ] , the peak location for wg2 , carp1 , cara1 and feml1 be 59 – 63 cm ( 115 – 120 mbp ) in hg / hg f2 mouse and 78 – 83 cm ( 135 – 150 mbp ) in + / + f2 mouse .
d full congenic name consist of three part : 1 . b6.cast , indicate the recipient strain be b6 and the donor strain be cast ; hg.cast , indicate the recipient strain be hg and the donor strain be cast ; 2 . marker define the minimal congenic interval ; 3 . the number of backcrosses use for speed congenic development .
e represent the minimum genomic region span by cast donor allele .
table 2
body length and adiposity phenotype of b6.cast and hg.cast mmu2 speed congenic strain
na , nasal - anal body length ; tail , tail length ; gfp , gonadal fat pad ; ffp , femoral fat pad ; mfp , mesenteric fat pad ; rfp , retroperitoneal fat pad ; tf , sum weight of four fat pad ; ai , adiposity index ( tf / body weight * 100 ) and bmi , body mass index ( body weight at sacrifice / na2 * 100 ) .
value be express a lsmeans ± sem .
lsmeans in bold be significantly different than the respective control after bonferroni correction ( b6 ( critical p < 0.00625 ) or hg ( p < 0.00833 ) ) within each sex .
table 3
significance level for the main effect , two - way and three way interaction of mmu2 speed congenic donor region ( dr ) , hg genotype ( hg ) ( + / + or hg / hg ) and sex for select trait
6wk , weight at 6 week of age ; 9wk , weight at 9 week of age ; g26 , weight gain from 2 to 6 week of age ; g29 , weight gain from 2 to 9 week of age ; na , nasal - anal body length ; tf , total fat pad weight and ai , adiposity index .
significant effect after a bonferroni correction ( critical p < 0.0071 ) be in bold .
a the distal ( 2d ) donor region be not analyze .
table 4
body size , growth rate and length phenotype of hg.cast speed congenic strain
2wk , weight at 2 week of age ; 3wk , weight at 3 week of age ; 6wk , weight at 6 week of age ; 9wk , weight at 9 week of age ; g26 , weight gain from 2 to 6 week of age ; g29 , weight gain from 2 to 9 week of age ; na , nasal - anal body length ; tail , tail length .
value be express a least square mean ( lsmeans ) ± sem .
lsmeans in bold be significantly different than the control ( hgc ) ( critical p < 0.005 ) after bonferroni correction within each sex .
table 5
adiposity phenotype of hg.cast speed congenic strain
gfp , gonadal fat pad ; ffp , femoral fat pad ; mfp , mesenteric fat pad ; rfp , retroperitoneal fat pad ; tf , sum weight of four fat pad ; ai , adiposity index ( tf / body weight * 100 ) and bmi , body mass index ( body weight at sacrifice / na2 * 100 ) .
value be express a least square mean ( lsmeans ) ± sem .
lsmeans in bold be significantly different than the control ( hgc ) ( critical p < 0.005 ) after bonferroni correction within each sex .
table 6
carcass composition phenotype of hg.cast speed congenic strain
h2o , carcass water ; % h2o , water a a percent of carcass weight ; fat , carcass fat ; % fat , fat a a percent of carcass weight ; ash , carcass ash ; % ash , ash a a percent of carcass weight ; prot , carcass protein , % prot , protein a a percent of carcass weight .
value be express a least square mean ( lsmeans ) ± sem .
lsmeans in bold be significantly different than the control ( hgc ) ( critical p < 0.0125 ) after bonferroni correction within each sex .
table 7
nonsynonymous snp in mmu 2 , 9 and 17 hg modifier candidate gene predict by sift and polyphen to alter protein function
mmu , mouse chromosome ; aa , amino acid ; pbd , probably damage , psd , possibly damage ; b , benign ; t , tolerate and d , deleterious .
a amino acid change , first residue list correspond to the cast allele and second correspond to the b6 allele .
b indicate which allele be designate a " mutant " , i.e. b6 / cast , b6 allele be mutant and cast be wild type .
pygo1 and pygo2 role in wnt signaling in mammalian kidney development
abstract
background
the pygopus gene of drosophila encode an essential component of the armadillo ( β - catenin ) transcription factor complex of canonical wnt signaling .
to well understand the function of pygopus - mediate canonical wnt signaling in kidney development , target mutation be make in the two mammalian orthologs , pygo1 and pygo2 .
result
each mutation delete > 80 % of the coding sequence , include the critical phd domain , and almost certainly result in null function .
pygo2 homozygous mutant , with rare exception , die shortly after birth , with a phenotype include lens agenesis , growth retardation , alter kidney development , and in some case exencephaly and cleave palate .
pygo1 homozygous mutant , however , be viable and fertile , with no detectable developmental defect .
double pygo1 / pygo2 homozygous mutant show no apparent synergy in phenotype severity .
the bat - gal transgene reporter of canonical wnt signaling show reduce level of expression in pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - mutant , with tissue - specific variation in degree of diminution .
the pygo1 and pygo2 gene both show widespread expression in the develop kidney , with raise level in the stromal cell compartment .
confocal analysis of the double mutant kidney show disturbance of both the ureteric bud and metanephric mesenchyme - derive compartment .
branch morphogenesis of the ureteric bud be alter , with expand tip and reduce tip density , probably contribute to the small size of the mutant kidney .
in addition , there be an expansion of the zone of condense mesenchyme cap the ureteric bud .
nephron formation , however , proceed normally .
microarray analysis show change expression of several gene , include cxcl13 , slc5a2 , klk5 , ren2 and timeless , which represent candidate wnt target in kidney development .
conclusion
the mammalian pygopus gene be require for normal branching morphogenesis of the ureteric bud during kidney development .
nevertheless , the relatively mild phenotype observe in the kidney , as well a other organ system , indicate a striking evolutionary divergence of pygopus function between mammal and drosophila .
in mammal , the pygo1 / pygo2 gene be not absolutely require for canonical wnt signaling in most develop system , but rather function a quantitative transducer , or modulators , of wnt signal intensity .
background
wnt signaling be of critical importance in several stage of kidney development .
mutual inductive interaction between the ureteric bud and metanephric mesenchyme drive nephrogenesis [ 1 ] .
the ureteric bud synthesize wnt9b , which be essential for induction of the mesenchyme to form nephron [ 2 ] .
wnt4 be make by the induce metanephric mesenchyme and be also require for nephrogenesis [ 3 ] .
furthermore , wnt11 , secrete by the ureteric bud tip , participate in a positive feedback loop promote glial cell line - derive neurotrophic factor ( gdnf ) expression by the metanephric mesenchyme [ 4 ] .
mutation in wnt9b or wnt4 result in a dramatic block in nephron formation , while wnt11 mutant show a significant reduction in nephron number .
it be interesting to note that wnt4 and wnt11 have be show to signal , at least in some case , through noncanonical pathway [ 5 - 7 ] , while there be evidence indicate that wnt9b activate canonical wnt signaling in the kidney [ 2 ] .
genetic study in drosophila have identify the pygopus ( pygo ) gene a a critical component of canonical wnt signaling [ 8 - 11 ] .
pygo and lgs interact with β - catenin during the formation of the canonical transcriptional complex and be require for accumulation of β - catenin in the nucleus [ 12 ] .
lgs bind the central armadillo repeat of β - catenin , while pygo interact with lgs , mediate activation of wnt target [ 9 , 13 ] .
the n - terminal domain of pygo be require for wnt transcriptional activation , while the phd motif be require for the association of pygo with lgs [ 9 , 13 ] .
additionally , a putative nuclear localization signal ( nls ) be identify within the n - terminal domain of pygo , suggest a possible role of nuclear importation of β - catenin [ 8 , 11 ] .
analysis of multiple aspect of the pygopus mutant phenotype indicate that this gene be dedicate to , and require for , canonical wnt signaling during drosophila development [ 9 ] .
the mammalian genome carry two , and only two , orthologs of drosophila pygo , pygo1 and pygo2 [ 8 , 9 , 14 ] .
in this report , we generate target mutation of pygo1 and pygo2 to determine their function , with a particular interest in the contribution of these gene to canonical wnt signaling during kidney development .
the result double - homozygous mutant embryo show a context - dependent reduction in canonical wnt signaling a measure by wnt reporter transgene expression .
development remain , however , surprisingly normal , with survival to birth and few apparent defect in most organ system .
our phenotypic analysis focus on the kidney , which show alter branching morphogenesis of the ureteric bud , and expansion of the zone of condense mesenchyme surround the ureteric bud , yet relatively normal nephron formation , a measure by histology , confocal analysis , in situ hybridization and microarray analysis .
the obvious conclusion be that in mammal , unlike drosophila , pygopus - mediate canonical wnt signaling be not absolutely necessary in most develop organ system .
result
pygo1 and pygo2 target mutation
we target both the pygo1 and pygo2 gene by insert loxp sequence to flank critical cod region include the phd domain .
the result target mouse be mat with transgenic cmv - cre mouse [ 15 ] to drive germline loxp recombination , result in the null mutant allele that be use for this study .
pcr confirm the deletion of the bulk of the cod sequence for both gene , include 89 % of coding sequence for pygo1 and 87 % of coding sequence for pygo2 .
previous study in drosophila have show that even a single missense mutation in the phd domain can eliminate pygo function in wnt signaling [ 8 ] .
pygo1 and pygo2 mutant phenotype
pygo1 homozygous null mouse be viable and fertile with no developmental defect detectable .
this be surprising give the importance of the pygopus gene in wnt signaling in drosophila , and the report expression during development of the mouse pygo1 gene in , for example , the brain , limb , kidney and branchial arch [ 14 , 16 ] ( yu j , valerius mt , mcmahon ap , contribution to gudmap , ) .
the pygo2 homozygous null mouse survive to birth , but with rare exception , die shortly afterwards .
the gut , heart and limb develop without detectable abnormality ( data not show ) despite known requirement for wnt signaling .
the pygo2 mutant do , however , show growth retardation , lens agenesis and a kidney phenotype with high penetrance , exencephaly , and cleave palate with incomplete penetrance .
double - homozygous mutant pygo1 and pygo2 mouse have a phenotype similar to that of single pygo2 null ( figure 1 , table 1 ) .
there be no significant synergism of developmental abnormality in the double mutant .
together these result suggest that pygo2 be require for the proper development of a limited number of structure , whereas pygo1 be not necessary for normal development .
figure 1
pygo1 / pygo2 mutant embryo .
( a ) e18.5 pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - embryo , with only one wild - type pygo2 allele , appear normal .
( b , c ) double homozygous mutant pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - embryo be small , with eye defect include absent or rudimentary lens and fold pigment retina ( arrow ) .
( c ) a small percentage of pygo1 / pygo2 null embryo also display exencephaly .
table 1
phenotype of pygo2 wild - type , heterozyogous , and null e18.5 embryo on a pygo1 null background .
* denote a significant change ( p < 0.01 ) of the average weight of the pygo2 null group compare with both the pygo wild - type and heterozygous group .
expression of pygo1 and pygo2 in the develop kidney
in situ hybridization have be use previously to characterize expression of pygo1 [ 14 , 16 ] ( yu j , valerius mt , mcmahon ap , contribution to gudmap , ) .
in this report , we use immunofluorescence to well define the expression pattern of the pygo1 and pygo2 gene in the develop kidney .
both gene be widely express , show nuclear localization of encode protein in the ureteric bud , capping mesenchyme , and stromal cell ( figure 2 ) .
raise expression of pygo1 , and to a less degree of pygo2 , be see in stromal cell , and significant nuclear staining be detect in essentially all cell of the develop kidney for both protein .
figure 2
pygo1 and pygo2 expression in the e18.5 develop kidney .
immunofluorescence be use to determine expression pattern of the pygo1 and pygo2 protein in the cortex of the e18.5 kidney .
both pygo1 and pygo2 ( red ) be localize in the nucleus , a expect .
both gene show widespread expression , with signal detect in all component of the develop kidney , but with elevate level in the stromal cell compartment ( arrow ) .
epithelial cell , primarily ureteric bud in these section , be label blue use e - cadherin antibody .
original magnification × 200 .
confocal analysis of pygo1 / pygo2 mutant kidney
histological examination of pygo2 null and pygo1 / pygo2 double - null mutant kidney do not reveal any abnormality in nephrogenesis ( data not show ) .
confocal analysis be therefore perform to characterize renal development in e18.5 pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney more precisely ( figure 3 ) .
wt1 ( red ) and cited1 ( red ) antibody both stain the cap metanephric mesenchyme around the ureteric bud tip [ 17 ] .
wt1 antibody also stain renal vesicle and glomerular anlage .
antibody to cdh1 , also know a e - cadherin ( blue ) , be use to identify epithelial structure , include the branch ureteric bud and nascent nephron of the develop kidney [ 18 ] .
dolichos biflorus ( dba ) lectin [ 16 ] be use to selectively stain ureteric bud - derive structure [ 19 ] .
figure 3
confocal analysis of pygo1 / pygo2 mutant e18.5 kidney .
( b , d ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - mutant e18.5 kidney and ( a , c ) kidney of normal littermates be stain use antibody to ( c , d ) cited1 or ( a , b ) wt1 , both express in the condense metanephric mesenchyme , and color a red , cdh1 , a general marker of epithelium ( blue ) , and dba lectin stain the ureteric tree [ 16 ] .
confocal z - section be obtain every 5 μm for 75 – 80 μm .
a reduce number of ureteric tip per area be observe in ( b , d ) the pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney compare with ( a , c ) control littermates .
in addition , ureteric bud tip be often more dilated in pygo1 / 2 null mutant compare with control .
the condense mesenchyme surround the ureteric bud be also significantly expand in the mutant .
original magnification × 200 .
wt1 and cited1 ( red ) staining reveal an increase of approximately 30 % in the thickness of the cap mesenchyme surround the mutant ureteric bud ( figure 3 , table 2 ) .
nevertheless , the mutant metanephric mesenchyme undergo relatively normal nephrogenesis .
cdh1 - stain nephron ( blue ) be identify connect to the ureteric bud tip [ 16 ] and extend into the medulla of the kidney , a normal .
intermediate structure of nephrogenesis , include renal vesicle , comma - shape body , and s - shape body appear normal .
table 2
confocal analysis of pygo2 wild - type , heterozygous , and null e18.5 kidney on the pygo1 null background .
* significant change ( p < 0.01 ) between the three group .
sd , standard deviation ; n , number
confocal analysis also show that the ureteric bud tip [ 16 ] of pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney be dilated and misshaped compare with those of littermates with at least one wild - type pygo2 allele ( figure 3 ) .
in addition , the pygo1 / pygo2 double - homozygous mutant kidney also have a decrease of approximately 25 % in the number of ureteric bud tip per area compare with littermates with at least one wild - type copy of pygo2 ( table 2 ) .
no significant difference in ureteric bud - tip density be see between pygo2 + / - and pygo2 + / + embryo ( p = 0.33 ) .
in situ hybridization
we examine expression of three wnt gene in pygo mutant .
wnt7b be express in the stalk [ 20 ] , wnt11 in the tip [ 4 ] , and wnt9b in the stalk and weakly in the tip of the branching ureteric bud [ 2 ] .
all three gene show similar expression pattern in pygo2 + / + and pygo1 / pygo2 double - mutant kidney ( figure 4 ) .
in addition , these in situ hybridization pattern confirm the confocal microscopy result , show a reduce number of tip ( wnt11 - positive ) per surface area in the pygo1 / pygo2 double - homozygous mutant .
figure 4
expression of wnt7b , wnt9b , and wnt11 in e18.5 pygo1 / pygo2 compound null kidney .
whole - mount in situ of hybridization of ( a - c ) e18.5 wild - type kidney and ( d - f ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - mutant kidney with the ureteric bud derivative marker : ( a , d ) wnt7b , ( b , e ) wnt9b , and ( c , f ) wnt11 .
the mutant kidney show normal expression pattern for the ureteric stalk marker wnt7b and wnt9b , and reduce density of ureteric tip a measure by wnt11 .
original magnification × 32 .
reduce canonical wnt signaling in pygo1 / pygo2 mutant mouse
the bat - gal transgene reporter of canonical wnt signaling [ 21 ] be use to examine change in wnt signaling in the mutant mouse .
both pygo2 - / - and pygo1 / pygo2 double - null e10.5 embryo show a decrease in canonical wnt signaling ( figure 5 ) .
there be , however , tissue - specific variability in the degree of reduction , with the somite , for example , show strong reduction , while the mutant telencephalon still show robust wnt signaling .
these result suggest that the mammalian pygo gene be significant modulators of canonical wnt signaling in some , but not in all develop system .
figure 5
reduce canonical wnt signaling in pygo2 and pygo1 / pygo2 mutant embryo .
e10.5 embryo , all with the bat - gal transgene reporter of canonical wnt signaling .
( a ) pygo1 + / + / pygo2 + / - embryo show normal x - gal staining in the develop brain , pharyngeal pouch , otic vesicle , apical ectodermal ridge of the fore and hind limb bud , and in somite .
( b ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 - / - embryo , with loss of both pygo2 allele , show reduced but not absent bat - gal reporter expression in many develop structure , include pharyngeal pouch , otic vesicle , and somite .
( c ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - embryo , with mutation of both pygo1 allele , but one wild - type pygo2 allele , show normal bat - gal expression .
( d ) double - homozygous mutant pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - embryo still show some remain bat - gal expression , suggest residual canonical wnt signaling .
embryo in panel ( a ) and ( b ) be from the same litter and be process in parallel , while embryo in ( c ) and ( d ) be from a separate litter , also process in parallel , and be slightly more developmentally advanced .
original magnification ( a , b ) × 20 ; ( c , d ) × 16 .
we also examine bat - gal reporter expression in more detail in the develop urogenital system of pygo mutant .
the result suggest that the pygo2 gene be require for canonical wnt signaling in the nephric duct .
both pygo2 null and pygo1 / pygo2 double - null e10.5 embryo show an absence of reporter expression in the nephric duct , while control littermates show strong expression ( figure 6a – c ) .
in pygo1 / pygo2 double - null mutant , the nephric duct do form , however , and give rise to the ureteric bud outgrowth , which show reduce but not absent bat - gal reporter expression ( figure 6a – c ) .
figure 6
pygo2 be require for bat - gal reporter expression in ureteric bud - derive structure of the develop kidney .
x - gal staining of bat - gal transgenic ( a - c ) e10.5 , and ( e - l ) e13.5 urogenital tract , and ( m - o ) e18.5 kidney .
( a ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / + ( left ) and pygo1 + / - / pygo2 - / - ( right ) .
note the loss of reporter activity in the nephric duct ( black arrowhead ) and reduction of staining in the ureteric bud ( white arrow ) of the pygo2 null embryo ( right ) .
( b ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - e10.5 embryo with bat - gal reporter activity in the nephric duct ( black arrowhead ) and ureteric bud ( white arrow ) .
( c ) pygo1 - / - / pygo - / - embryo , with reporter expression lost in the nephric duct and reduce in the ureteric bud ( white arrow ) .
( d ) control background x - gal staining of a urogenital tract from an e13.5 embryo without the bat - gal transgene ( non-tg ) , show absence of endogenous beta - galactosidase activity .
( e ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / + , with bat - gal reporter activity in the ureteric compartment of the develop kidney , include the ureteric tip , ureteric tree , and ureter .
( f ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 - / - , with marked reduction of bat - gal reporter activity in the ureteric compartment .
( g ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / - , with reporter expression in the paramesonephric duct ( white arrowhead ) and ureteric tree .
( h , i ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - , with ( h ) ventral view show reporter expression in the paramesonephric duct ( white arrowhead ) , and ( i ) dorsal view show ureteric tree expression in the kidney .
( j ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / - , a control process in parallel with ( k ) and ( l ) , with expression in ureteric tree and paramesonephric duct .
( k , l ) pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - , reporter activity be lose in the paramesonephric duct ( white arrowhead ) , and in the ureter and ureteric compartment of the develop kidney ( dash circle ) , except for ( k ) a few faintly stain cell .
( m , n ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / - ( left ) and pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - ( right ) e18.5 kidney .
the kidney in ( n ) be bisect .
bat - gal reporter expression be see in the ureteric tree component of the cortex and medulla of the double heterozygote but be almost completely lose in the double - homozygous mutant .
( o ) pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / + ( left ) , pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - ( middle ) , and pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - ( right ) e18.5 kidney .
reporter activity be present in the ureteric compartment of the pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / + ( left ) and pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - ( middle ) kidney , but lost in the pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - ( right ) kidney .
original magnification : ( a - c ) × 32 , ( d - f ) × 63 , ( g - i ) × 40 , ( j - l ) × 50 , ( m , n ) × 10 , and ( o ) × 12.5 .
at e13.5 , the pygo2 gene appear to play a major role , and the pygo1 gene a minor role , in canonical wnt signaling in the ureteric tree , a measure by bat - gal expression .
a negative control kidney , without the bat - gal transgene , show minimal background x - gal staining ( figure 6d ) , whereas a bat - gal transgenic kidney with at least one wild - type pygo2 gene show strong x - gal staining in the ureteric tree ( figure 6e ) .
in contrast , pygo1 + / - / pygo2 - / - e13.5 kidney show very weak reporter expression ( figure 6f ) , suggest a significant loss of canonical wnt signaling .
homozygous loss of the pygo1 gene alone , however , have a small effect on reporter expression ( figure 6g – h ) .
homozygous mutation of both the pygo1 and pygo2 gene give a more dramatic reduction of bat - gal expression than loss of pygo2 alone ( figure 6f , l ) .
the pygo1 and pygo2 gene be also require for bat - gal reporter expression in the paramesonephric ( mullerian ) duct .
in pygo2 - / - mouse , there be a significant loss of reporter expression ( data not show ) , and double - homozygous mutant show loss of x - gal staining in the paramesonephric duct ( figure 6k ) , whereas pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - and pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / - mouse show normal level of bat - gal expression ( figure 6g , h , j ) .
bat - gal reporter analysis of the pygo mutant at a later developmental stage , e18.5 , also identify a significant decrease in canonical wnt signaling in the cortical ureteric branch and renal pelvis of the develop kidney ( figure 6m – o ) .
cortical x - gal staining be see in the ureteric branch of a pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / - kidney ( figure 6m , left ) , but be completely absent in the cortex of a pygo1 + / - / pygo2 - / - kidney ( figure 6m , right ) .
bisection reveal a significant loss of x - gal stain cell in the collect duct and renal pelvis of the pygo2 null kidney compare with control littermates ( figure 6n ) .
side by side comparison of pygo1 + / + / pygo2 + / - ( figure 6o , left ) , pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - ( figure 6o , middle ) , and pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - ( figure 6o , right ) e18.5 kidney suggest a significant role for the pygo2 gene in canonical wnt signaling in the ureteric tree and it derivative .
in order to validate and quantify the bat - gal reporter expression change in the pygo2 null and pygo1 / pygo2 null , we perform elisa measurement of transgene specific β - galactosidase level in e18.5 kidney ( figure 7 ) .
loss of the pygo2 gene ( pygo1 + / - / pygo2 - / - and pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - ) give great than 90 % reduction in bat - gal expression .
loss of pygo1 alone ( pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / + ) do not result in a significant change .
interestingly , however , the pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - show only 50 % of wild - type bat - gal expression , suggest a minor contribution by pygo1 in canonical wnt signaling .
although bat - gal expression be decrease in the e18.5 pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / - kidney , confocal analysis of kidney with this genotype reveal no dilated ureteric tip or significant change in ureteric tip number per area compare with pygo1 - / - / pygo2 + / + kidney ( data not show ) .
collectively , these bat - gal reporter result suggest a significant role for the pygo1 and pygo2 gene in canonical wnt signaling during development of the ureteric tree of the kidney .
figure 7
quantitative analysis of bat - gal reporter expression in pygo1 / pygo2 e18.5 kidney extract .
transgene - specific beta - galactosidase be quantify by elisa analysis .
pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / + , pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / - and pygo1 + / - / pygo2 + / + kidney all show similar level of bat - gal expression .
in the pygo2 hetereozygote , pygo1 homozygous mutant , however , reporter expression be reduce by about 50 % .
in pygo2 homozygous mutant bat - gal expression be uniformly low , with or without wild - type pygo1 allele .
each experimental group include a sample size of at least four .
interestingly , however , even in wild - type mouse the bat - gal reporter show no expression in the develop metanephric mesenchyme , or metanephric mesenchyme - derive structure , such a renal vesicle , s - shape body , tubule , and glomerulus .
this have be report previously , and be interpret to indicate the absence of canonical wnt signaling in the metanephric mesenchyme [ 21 ] .
result from other study , however , argue for the presence of canonical wnt signaling in the metanephric mesenchyme .
for example , ureteric bud expression of wnt1 , think to act through canonical wnt signaling , can rescue wnt9b mutant and induce nephrogenesis of the metanephric mesenchyme [ 2 ] .
this suggest that the bat - gal transgene might not accurately report canonical wnt signaling in the metanephric mesenchyme .
to address this question , we incubate e11.5 metanephric mesenchyme in lithium chloride ( licl ) , which activate canonical wnt signaling through inhibition of gsk3 , and also function a an inducer of nephrogenesis in kidney organ culture [ 22 ] .
we observe that licl - treat metanephric mesenchyme do undergo nephrogenesis , a expect , but fail to show bat - gal expression ( data not show ) , suggest that this transgene be not an accurate reporter of canonical wnt signaling in the metanephric mesenchyme of the develop kidney .
microarray analysis of pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney
to far examine possible disturbance of gene expression in the pygo1 / pygo2 mutant kidney , we use microarrays to perform a global analysis of gene expression change .
whereas the bat - gal transgene reporter monitor the response of one promoter to wnt signaling , microarrays can be use to follow expression change of all gene , include all know wnt target .
e18.5 wild - type and pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - kidney be examine in biological triplicate .
in total , 45 gene be identify a significantly change , use a relatively low stringency screen of the data , with a p - value cutoff of < 0.05 , and fold change > 2 ( table 3 ) .
notably , both pygo1 and pygo2 be identify a downregulated ( - 5.3-fold and - 3.9-fold , respectively ) in the mutant kidney .
other gene with significant decrease in mutant kidney include cxcl13 ( - 2.3-fold ) , slc5a2 ( - 2.8-fold ) , and slco1a4 ( - 2.1-fold ) .
slc5a2 be express in the proximal tubule of the adult nephron and have be implicate in autosomal recessive renal glucosuria , characterize by loss of glucose uptake by the nephron [ 23 ] .
the organic anion transporter , slco1a4 , be also strongly express in the tubule of the adult kidney [ 24 ] .
these result suggest that the pygo1 / pygo2 gene might play a role in nephron maturation and subsequent function .
table 3
gene differentially express ( p < 0.05 , two-fold change or great ) in the pygo1 / pygo2 null e18.5 kidney normalize to wild - type sample .
noteworthy gene upregulated in the pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney include klk5 ( 2.8-fold ) , klk6 ( 2.7-fold ) , ren2 ( 2.2-fold ) , and timeless ( 2.4-fold ) .
klk5 and klk6 be member of the kallikrein family of trypsin - like serine protease .
kallikreins have diverse function in cancer , tissue remodeling , and regulation of blood pressure [ 25 ] .
ren2 , a homolog of the endopeptidase renin 1 , activate the renin - angiotensin system , increase blood pressure [ 26 ] .
disruption of the renin - angiotensin system during development result in congenital abnormality of the ureter and collecting - duct system [ 27 ] .
timeless , a transcription factor involve in the regulation of circadian rhythm , and express in the branch ureteric tip , have also be show to regulate ureteric branching morphogenesis [ 28 ] .
we be interested in the possible alter expression of previously know wnt target in the pygo1 - / - / pygo2 - / - mutant kidney .
a list of known wnt target be compile from .
both pygo1 and pygo2 probe set be include a reference to illustrate significant down regulation .
remarkably , the know wnt target gene show very few difference in expression between wild - type and mutant kidney ( figure 8 ) .
only the expression of ccnd1 encode cyclin d1 [ 29 ] , and wisp1 [ 30 ] be significantly change , with expression level change of < 1.5-fold in pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney .
these result indicate an absence of dramatic change in expression of previously know wnt signaling target gene in the pygo1 / pygo2 mutant kidney .
figure 8
gene expression change of common wnt signaling target in the e18.5 pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney .
microarray analysis be perform in triplicate on wild - type and pygo1 / 2 compound null e18.5 kidney .
possible wnt target be select from those compile at [ 39 ] .
an initial gene list of 82 wnt target be create and then reduce to a total of 40 gene use an expression level restriction require the raw expression intensity to be > 100 in at least 3 sample .
pygo1 and pygo2 probe be include to demonstrate significant change in expression level .
we use quantitative real - time pcr , with independent biological sample , to validate the microarray result .
nine gene be test , and for seven we do observe a significant fold change in the same direction predict by the microarray result ( table 4 ) .
it be not surprising that two of the nine gene could not be validate , consider the relatively low stringency use in screen the microarray data .
table 4
validation of gene expression change in the e18.5 pygo1 / pygo2 null kidney normalize to e18.5 wild - type kidney .
discussion
in drosophila , the pygopus gene be a key mediator of canonical wnt signaling .
in one study , 12 distinct measure of wnt signaling in pygo mutant be perform , include analysis of leg , wing , and eye imaginal disc .
in 2 case there be a significant reduction of wnt signaling and in 10 case a complete block [ 10 ] .
a second study in drosophila examine the effect of pygo mutation on cuticle patterning , midgut constriction , central nervous system , and cardiac development , and conclude that " pygo be an essential component in the wg signal transduction pathway " . [ 8 ] .
give these result in drosophila , the relatively mild phenotype of mouse with target pygo1 , pygo2 , or double pygo1 / pygo2 mutation be striking .
pygo2 mutant develop to birth and show limited abnormality , while pygo1 homozygous mutant be normal and fertile .
furthermore , there be no detect synergism in the phenotype of the double pygo1 / pygo2 mutant , although in several tissue the bat - gal wnt reporter do show more a severe reduction in expression .
one possible explanation of these unexpected result be a failure of the gene target to eliminate functioning of the pygo1 and pygo2 gene .
the pygopus deletion allele describe in this report , however , be almost certainly functional null .
in drosophila , it have be show that the phd domain be absolutely necessary for pygopus function in wg signaling .
the phd domain be 60 amino acid with seven cysteine and a histidine , predict to chelate two zinc ion .
phd domain be find in diverse protein , include transcription factor , and have be implicate in chromatin remodeling and protein - protein interaction [ 8 ] .
in drosophila the pygof107 allele , with a single missense mutation convert amino acid 802 in the phd domain from cysteine to tyrosine , lose wnt signaling function in both embryogenesis and imaginal disc development [ 8 ] .
the pygo1 / pygo2 mutant allele make in this report carry deletion of the entire phd domain , as well a most other coding sequence .
for the pygo1 gene , the coding region for 372 of 417 total amino acid be delete , and for the pygo2 gene , we delete cod for 354 of 405 amino acid .
it be therefore very unlikely that the relatively mild phenotype observe be the result of residual function of the target allele .
we focus our analysis on the develop kidney , in which wnt signaling have be show to be of critical importance in several stage of nephrogenesis .
wnt9b be make by the ureteric bud and induce the metanephric mesenchyme to undergo nephrogenesis [ 2 ] .
downstream of wnt9b be wnt4 [ 2 ] , which be make by the metanephric mesenchyme , and be also require for nephrogenesis [ 3 ] .
in addition , wnt11 be produce by the ureteric bud tip and induce gdnf expression in the metanephric mesenchyme [ 4 ] .
in this report we describe a novel wnt function in kidney development .
the bat - gal transgene reporter indicate the presence of canonical wnt signaling in the ureteric bud and it derivative in the develop kidney .
far , in the pygo2 mutant this signal be lose , suggest significant reduction of wnt signaling .
in addition , we observe a result decrease in ureteric tip density , reduce kidney size and alter morphology of the ureteric tree in mutant , indicate a role for canonical wnt signaling in branch morphogenesis of the ureteric bud .
while the simple interpretation be direct wnt signaling to the ureteric bud , it remain possible that the observe abnormality be the result of indirect effect , with alter wnt signaling to the metanephric mesenchyme then affect mesenchyme to ureteric bud signaling .
the pygo1 / pygo2 mutant phenotype of reduce branching morphogenesis of the ureteric bud be surprisingly similar to that previously report for wnt11 mutant [ 4 ] .
the underlie mechanism , however , be likely to be distinct .
wnt11 be generally think to act through a noncanonical pathway , ( although exception have be note [ 31 ] ) , whereas the pygopus gene promote canonical wnt signaling .
far , the wnt11 mutant show an alter feedback loop between wnt signaling from the ureteric bud to the mesenchyme and gdnf signaling from the mesenchyme to the bud , whereas in the pygo1 / pygo2 mutant , we observe disrupt wnt signaling in the ureteric bud .
the pygo1 / 2 mutant also show an expansion of the zone of thicken mesenchyme that cap the ureteric bud .
nevertheless , the mutant metanephric mesenchyme form nephron normally .
this be particularly interesting , a wnt9b signaling from the ureteric bud to the metanephric mesenchyme have be show to induce nephrogenesis via canonical wnt signaling [ 2 ] .
the result in this report indicate a striking and surprising evolutionary divergence of pygopus function between drosophila and mammal .
in drosophila , the pygopus gene be often require for canonical wnt signaling , while in mammal the pygo1 / pygo2 gene appear to play a small role in canonical wnt signaling .
the bat - gal transgene reporter of canonical wnt signaling show reduce but generally not absent signal in pygo1 / pygo2 mutant embryo , with tissue - specific variation in level of diminution .
in addition , the kidney be not unique in show surprisingly normal development in pygo1 / pygo2 mutant .
indeed , organogenesis generally proceed without detectable abnormality , with few exception .
these result suggest that the protein encode by mammalian pygopus gene be often mere modulators of canonical wnt signaling intensity , and not essential component .
the microarray result far support this conclusion .
whereas the bat - gal transgene reporter monitor the expression level of only one wnt responsive promoter , the microarray allow the analysis of the activity level of promoter of all gene .
interestingly , the mutant kidney show gene - expression profile surprisingly similar to wild type .
some gene do , however , show expression difference , and a high percentage of these difference could be validate by real - time pcr with independent biological sample .
assume that the pygopus gene in mammal be dedicate to canonical wnt signaling , a have be previously show in drosophila , the gene with expression difference represent candidate wnt target ( direct or indirect ) in kidney development .
we would predict these gene to show great change in expression level in a develop kidney with a more complete removal of canonical wnt signaling .
conclusion
in conclusion , the mammalian pygo2 gene be require for normal branching morphogenesis of the ureteric bud , with mutant show dilate tip and reduce number of tip .
in addition , in pygo2 mutant there be an expansion of the zone of metanephric mesenchyme that cap the ureteric bud .
nevertheless , nephron formation proceed remarkably normally , even in pygo1 / pygo2 double - homozygous mutant .
this be surprising consider the importance of the pygopus gene in canonical wnt signaling in drosophila , and the importance of canonical wnt signaling in nephrogenesis .
the result argue that the mammalian pygopus gene be , in most develop system , only quantitative transducer of wnt signaling .
previous cell culture study [ 32 , 33 ] and the reduce bat - gal transgene reporter expression in the pygo1 / pygo2 knockout mouse describe in this report , do confirm an evolutionarily conserve function in canonical wnt signaling .
in mammal , however , the phenotypic effect of pygopus mutation be much mild than in drosophila .
the degree of importance of the pyg1 / 2 gene in wnt signaling be context - dependent , but in general , mammalian organogenesis remain intact in pygopus mutant .
perhaps the simple explanation be that in mammal , other gene show partial functional redundancy with the two pygopus gene .
the β - catenin transcription - factor complex include a large and grow number of protein , some of which may share the nuclear localization and / or transcription activation function of pygo1 / pygo2 in mammal .
the identity and role of these pygopus redundant gene remain to be determine .
method
targeting of pygo1 and pygo2
pygo1 and pygo2 gene be each target by flank the critical coding region of the third exon contain the phd motif with loxp sequence .
targeting construct be make use the flp / cre vector previously describe [ 34 ] , which carry a neomycin - resistance gene flank by frt sequence , and three unique restriction site for subcloning the two block of homology for drive recombination , and the critical region to be flank by loxp sequence .
for each construct , the three genomic segment require for subcloning be make by pcr from ri e cell dna .
the result targeting construct be confirm by sequencing .
for pygo1 , the genomic sequence use for pcr be : 5 ' forward , gtgaaggagagatggataagtatg ; 5 ' back , tagaccctaaccacctacaag ; exon forward , ggttagggtctatgtgctgg ; exon back , tcaccaaatctctgttctacac ; 3 ' forward , tgtgtagaacagagatttggtg ; 3 ' back , cagtgaagaaagagggtcag .
for pygo2 , the genomic sequence use for pcr be : gcctgggttgcttgtcttctg and ccaccttacttgtgtgtgaggatacatac , ccaagtcccagcatctcttac and ccagtcataccagcaacaag , and exon sequence tgggtgctgggaacagaac and caacaacaacagaagacaagc .
linearize construct be electroporated into ri e cell , and result target e cell use for c57 / bl6 blastocyst injection accord to standard protocol .
result chimera be mat with swiss black mouse , and the target stock maintain on a mix 129 / swiss black background .
germline null allele of both pygo1 and pygo2 be generate by mat heterozygous floxed mouse with the cmv - cre mouse [ 15 ] .
the sequence of the primer use for genotyping pcr be : pygo2 null allele , forward ( f ) cctggattcttgttgctggtatg ; reverse ( r ) aaggtatttggtgctccgaggg ; pygo2 wt or floxed allele , f tgtcttgatgacagcgtttagcc , r agattcagtaagctgagcctggtg ; pygo1 null allele , f agtttgaaatagcgacgagtttgag , r 5 ' - cacttctgcccctctctttgc ; pygo1 wt or floxed allele , f aagcgtgcctcatctccatccctaag , r gccctccccgacgtttatattg .
the noon of the day that vaginal plug be observe be designate e0.5 .
confocal microscopy
kidney be dissect , fix in paraformaldehyde , treat with methanol , and wash with pb contain tween - 20 ( pb - t ) prior to treatment with lectin and antibody .
pb - t be use for incubation of the tissue with fluoroscein - conjugate dilichos biflorus aggutinin ( dba , vector ; burlingame , usa ) , and pb - t plus 2 % goat serum be use for incubation with the antibody .
the primary antibody be anti-wt1 ( c - 19 ; santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , ca , usa ) , anti-uvomorulin ( e - cadherin , cdh1 , sigma - aldrich st. louis , mo , usa ) , and anti-cited1 ( neomarkers - lab vision corporation , fremont , ca , usa ) .
the secondary antibody be alexa 555 - conjugate anti-rabbit and alexa 633 - conjugate anti-rat antibody ( molecular probe , eugene , or , usa ) .
the tissue be image with a laser scanning microscope ( carl zeiss , thornwood , new york , usa ) equip with an argon ( 488 nm ) and two hene laser ( 543 nm and 633 nm ) .
optical section approximately 2 μm thick be obtain every 5 μm to a depth of at least 65 μm .
the section begin at the surface of the kidney and be on a plane tangential to it .
two z - stack series be obtain , one from each of the two kidney of each embryo .
ureteric bud tip identify by section tracing be count within a define area of the confocal image .
in situ hybridization
whole - mount in situ hybridization be perform a previously describe [ 35 ] .
riboprobes to wnt11 and wnt7b be describe previously [ 35 ] .
the wnt9b riboprobe be provide by t. carroll [ 2 ] .
pygo1 and pygo2 antibody production
to generate anti-human pygo2 ( anti-hpygo2 ) and anti-mouse pygo1 ( anti-mpygo1 ) polyclonal antibody , we subcloned cdna by pcr correspond to amino - acid residue 80 – 327 of human pygo 2 or amino - acid residue 76 – 263 of mouse pygo1 into pgex4t1 ( amersham health , piscataway , nj , usa ) .
the pcr fragment of hpygo 2 and mpygo 1 lack both nhd and phd conserve region of hpygo2 and mpygo1 .
gst - hpygo2 and gst - mpygo1 protein be express in bacteria , purify , and inject into rabbit for antibody production by ( proteintech group inc. , chicago , il , usa ) .
the rabbit antiserum of anti-mpygo1 and anti-hpygo2 be initially allow to bind to the gst affinity matrix to remove any antibody against gst .
the anti-hpygo2 and anti-mpygo1 antiserum be then separate from the gst affinity matrix and allow to bind to the gst - hpygo2 or gst - mpygo1 affinity column , respectively .
the bind antibodes be elute with elution buffer .
to far ensure antibody specficity , the purify antibody be extensively incubate with pygo1 / 2 double - homozygous mutant embryo extract before use .
bat - gal transgene reporter assay of canonical wnt signaling
x - gal staining of both embryo and develop kidney be perform a previously describe [ 21 ] .
care be take to reduce endogenous β - galactosidase activity within the develop kidney by increase ph of the x - gal staining solution to 8.0 .
change in transgene β - gal expression be quantitated use a β - gal elisa ( enzyme - link immunoassay ) kit ( roche , indianapolis , in ) , normalize accord to total protein .
each genotype be represent by a sample size of 4 except the non-transgenic ( n = 5 ) , pygo1 + / - ; pygo2 + / + ( n = 6 ) , pygo1 - / - ; pygo2 + / - ( n = 8 ) , and pygo1 - / - ; pygo2 - / - ( n = 6 ) group .
microarray analysis
total rna be isolate from e18.5 kidney dissect from normal and pygo1 / pygo2 compound null embryo use a commercial kit ( stratagene absolutely rna microprep kit ; la jolla , ca , usa ) .
an aliquot ( 300 ng ) of total rna be process and label use a commercial kit ( targetamp 1 - round aminoallyl - arna ki ; epicentre , madison , wi , usa ) .
label rna be hybridize to microarrays ( sentrix mouse - 6 expression beadchip ; illumina , san diego , ca ) provide coverage of over 47000 gene and express sequence tag a previously describe [ 36 ] .
microarray analysis of pygo1 / pygo2 null and normal wild - type kidney be perform in biological triplicate .
raw signal intensity of each probe be obtain from data analysis software ( beadstudio ; illumina ) and import into genespring gx 7.3 ( agilent technology , palo alto , ca , usa ) .
gene be select on the basis of great than two-fold average fold change and statistical significance ( p - value < 0.05 ) .
previously describe wnt target gene be obtain from .
quantitative pcr validation of microarray result
total rna from e18.5 pygo1 / pygo2 null and control kidney ( both represent in duplicate and distinct from the kidney use for microrray analysis ) be purify use a commercial kit ( absolutely rna microprep kit ; stratagene , la jolla , ca usa ) include dnase1 treatment .
cdna be generate use random hexamers accord to conventional protocol ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca , usa ) .
the follow primer be generate to include the sequence obtain from the illumina probe : actb ( ttgctgacaggatgcagaag , acatctgctggaaggtggac ) ; aldh1a7 ( ccagaaagtggtgttttgct , gagttacagagagcttgcacctt ) ; col8a1 ( gcagacaggcatcttcacct , tgtgtacatcatgggctcgt ) ; csrp1 ( cagcatagcccagggtagag , tgggcaaggtagtgaaggtt ) ; klk5 ( gcagcattacacccgtcata , ttgcctccatccatatctcc ) ; picalm ( gggagggaacagaaatcctt , gcaccgatcaacagtgcag ) ; pygo2 ( ttctgggaacttgtgcactg , aacttcctccagcccatttt ) ; ren2 ( ttgtgagctgtagccaggtg , tgtgcacagcttgtctctcc ) and tia1 ( tgattgaagggctactagagtggt , agccccagaggacaattttt ) use primer3 software [ 37 ] .
relative quantitative pcr be perform accord to the conventional sybr green protocol ( stratagene ) use a quantitative pcr system ( mx3000p ; stratagene ) .
dissociation curve and agarose - gel analysis of each primer set be use to insure specificity of the amplicon .
all data be normalize to an internal housekeeping control ( actb ) and analyze use the 2 ( - delta delta c ( t ) ) method [ 38 ] .
author ' contribution
sp design and do most of the work for target the pygo gene , provide oversight for the project and help write the paper .
k do most of the experiment , include confocal analysis with lp , in situ hybridization with hh , and help write the paper .
xl make and test the pygo antibody .
n and rl provide useful suggestion and help with the immunostaining and bat - gal analysis .
acknowledgement
l. mcclain provide essential technical assistance and we thank p. groen and d. witte for initial histology and embryological analysis .
d. ash help make targeting construct .
we thank t. carroll for provide a wnt9b riboprobe construct .
we thank h. liang for generation of microarray data .
this work be support by grant dk61916 from the national institute of health ( s.s.p. ) .
rmce - asap : a gene target method for e and somatic cell to accelerate phenotype analysis
abstract
in recent year , tremendous insight have be gain on p53 regulation by target mutation at the p53 locus use homologous recombination in e cell to generate mutant mouse .
although informative , this approach be inefficient , slow and expensive .
to facilitate targeting at the p53 locus , we develop an improve recombinase - mediated cassette exchange ( rmce ) method .
our approach enable efficient targeting in e cell to facilitate the production of mutant mouse .
but more importantly , the approach be adapt for targeting in somatic cell to accelerate phenotyping ( rmce - asap ) .
we provide proof - of - concept for this at the p53 locus , by show efficient targeting in fibroblast , and rapid phenotypic read - out of a recessive mutation after a single exchange .
rmce - asap combine inverted heterologous recombinase target site , a positive / negative selection marker that preserve the germline capacity of e cell , and the power of mouse genetics .
these general principle should make rmce - asap applicable to any locus .
introduction
p53 be one of the most highly analyzed protein for the past 25 year .
study in culture cell , often rely on the transfection of plasmid express various p53 mutant , have establish model to explain how p53 be regulate .
in recent year , some of these model be test in vivo by target subtle mutation at the p53 locus use homologous recombination in embryonic stem ( e ) cell to generate mutant mouse .
the strength of this approach be that mutation be test in a genomic setting and express from the endogenous promoter , ensure physiological expression level and correct spatio - temporal profile .
a significant difference between phenotype from target p53 mutant in vivo and transfection data be observe [ e.g. ref ( 1 – 5 ) ] , more target mutation need to be generate and analyze in multiple tissue to formulate more accurate model of p53 regulation .
however , use homologous recombination in e cell to generate mutant mouse be an inefficient , slow and expensive method because ( i ) homologous recombination typically occur at low frequency in e cell , require sophisticated selection scheme and screening of hundred of clone to identify the desired mutant ; ( ii ) large ( 15 – 20 kb ) plasmid , often difficult to clone , be require to increase target efficiency and ( iii ) breed mouse to homozygosity and house a mouse colony generate further delay and cost .
such limitation make the repeat targeting of a locus a technically daunt and economically impractical task .
improvement in current technology be need to enable such analysis to be apply to the p53 or other gene .
develop method to increase target efficiency in e cell be clearly an important goal .
in addition , efficient method for gene targeting in fibroblast could expedite phenotypic analysis .
indeed , sirnas in fibroblast often provide a fast read - out than equivalent gene knock - out in animal ( 6 ) .
however , model most disease - associated mutation require generate subtle mutation , not knock - out or reduce expression allele .
target point mutation in fibroblast by homologous recombination be extremely inefficient , and target both allele be require to reveal the phenotype of recessive autosomal mutation .
here we report an approach that enable highly efficient targeting at the p53 locus in both e cell and fibroblast .
recombinase - mediated cassette exchange ( rmce ) approach be develop to improve target efficiency use a two - step process : the gene of interest be first replace by a selection cassette flank by recombinase target site ( e.g. loxp site for cre recombinase , to create a ‘ floxed ’ locus ) .
then , cre - mediated recombination in the presence of a cassette contain a floxed mutant allele remove the resident sequence and insert the mutant gene ( 7 ) .
previously , technical difficulty have prevent rmce from be apply routinely to generate mutant mouse .
for example , exchange use cassette with directly repeat loxp site be inefficient because excision dominate the intend exchange ( 8 ) .
loxp site with different sequence be generate to overcome this problem , but these site also undergo intramolecular recombination , make rmce efficient only if the replacement cassette contain a marker enable selection of the desire recombinant ( 7 , 9 – 12 ) .
however , interference result from expression of the selection marker and the endogenous gene ( 13 ) necessitate strategy to remove the selectable gene .
together , previous study indicate that an optimal rmce require ( i ) invert heterologous loxp site diverge by at least 2 nt to maximize the efficiency of exchange and ( ii ) an expression cassette enable both positive selection to identify the initial recombinant and then negative selection to obtain a ‘ marker - free ’ mutant allele ( 14 ) .
most rmce experiment have be perform at random site in somatic cell line .
only a few mutant mouse generate by rmce in e cell have be report , but the rmce systematically introduce a selectable marker ( 15–17 ) , or , when test without an incoming marker , prove inefficient ( 12 ) .
a recent report disclose an additional problem
: the hygromycin – thymidine kinase fusion gene use most frequently for positive / negative selection in rmce , lead to mouse sterility , so that exchange can only be perform in e cell ( 16 ) .
the rmce strategy present here rely on the integrate use of invert heterologous loxp site , a positive / negative selection marker that preserve the germline capacity of e cell , and the power of mouse genetics to expedite phenotypic analysis .
we show that our approach enable efficient targeting of marker - free mutation at the p53 locus in e cell to generate mutant mouse , but more importantly , it be adapt for target in somatic cell to accelerate phenotyping ( asap ) .
because it rely on very general principle , rmce - asap could be apply to any locus of interest .
material and method
targeting construct for a p53 rmce - ready locus
detail for plasmid construction be available upon request owe to space limitation mandate a brief outline .
we start from a plasmid l3 - 1l contain heterologous loxp site ( l3 be the mutant loxp257 recently describe ( 14 ) , 1l be an invert wt loxp ) .
the wt loxp and loxp257 differ in their spacer sequence : the spacer sequence be 5 ′ - atgtatgc - 3 ′ for wt loxp and 5 ′ - aagtctcc - 3 ′ for loxp257 .
the three mutation in the loxp257 spacer sequence prevent it to recombine with wt loxp , ensure efficient rmce in several cell line : accurate rmce with these loxp site occur with an average frequency of 81 % at two locus in cho cell and an average frequency of 69 % at four locus in hela cell ( 14 ) .
the l3 - 1l plasmid be first modify to include a clai and a fsei site between the loxp site , lead to plasmid l3 - cf - 1l .
we next modify a puroδtk plasmid ( ytc37 , a kind gift from a. bradley ) by use oligonucleotides to destroy a noti site downstream of the puroδtk gene and introduce a noti site upstream , and a fsei site downstream of the gene ( lead to plasmid cn - puroδtk - f ) .
next , a pmli - mfei 6.3 kb fragment from trp53 be subcloned in a modify pbluescript ksii+ ( pb , stratagene ) , and the result plasmid be digest with swai to introduce an eagi site , lead to p53pmleag , a plasmid contain exon 2 – 11 of p53 .
we then insert a 5.5 kb clai - eagi fragment from p53pmleag in plasmid cn - puroδtk - f digest by clai and noti , and insert the result fragment between the loxp site of l3 - cf - 1l by clai and fsei digestion , lead to l3 - p53pmleagpuroδtk - 1l .
we next engineer a plasmid contain the region for 3 ′ - homology downstream of the p53 gene and the dta gene in two step : ( i ) we perform a three - way ligation between a modify pb digest by hindiii and noti , a hindiii - ecori fragment from trp53 for 3 ′ homology and an ecori - noti fragment contain the dta gene , from plasmid pgkdtabpa ( kind gift of p. soriano ) , lead to plasmid 3 ′ + dta and ( ii ) because the bsu36i - ecori region downstream of p53 contain repetitive sequence ( f. toledo and g. m. wahl , unpublished data ) , we later delete this region , to obtain plasmid 3 ′ + dta .
the 5 ′ homology consist of a 3.4 kb - long bamhi - pmli fragment from intron 1 of p53 clone in a modify pb ( plasmid p5 ′ ) .
finally , appropriate fragment from plasmid p5 ′ , l3 - p53pmleagpuroδtk - 1l , and 3 ′ + dta be assemble in a modify psp72 plasmid ( promega ) .
plasmid flox , the result targeting construct , be verify by restriction analysis , then sequence use 30 primer choose to precisely verify all p53 coding sequence , all exon – intron junction and the sequence at and around the loxp site .
exchange construct : make the p53gfp and p53 δ pgfp plasmid
to make a p53 - gfp fusion protein , we first subcloned a sacii - hindiii fragment of the p53 locus ( correspond to part of exon 10 to sequence downstream of the gene ) into pb , then mutate the hindiii site into a fsei site .
we next mutate the c - terminal part of the p53 gene in two round of pcr mutagenesis , first with primer 5 ′ - gggcctgactcagacggatcccctctgcatcccgtc - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gacgggatgcagaggggatccgtctgagtcaggccc - 3 ′ , which remove the stop codon and introduce a bamhi site , then with primer 5 ′ - gacggatcccctctgaattccgtccccatcacca - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - tggtgatggggacggaatacagaggggatccgtc - 3 ′ , which introduce an ecori site .
we verify the sequence from the mutate plasmid , then digest it with bamhi and ecori , to insert in frame gfp sequence from a bam hi - ecori fragment of plasmid phr - gfp - 1 ( stratagene ) .
we verify the sequence of this p53 - gfp fusion fragment , then swap it in the l3 - p53pmleagpuroδtk - 1l plasmid ( see above ) by hindiii and fsei digestion , result in the p53gfp exchange construct , the sequence which be verify before use .
the p53δpgfp exchange construct be engineer by combine sequence from the p53gfp exchange plasmid and sequence from the p53δp targeting construct describe recently ( 5 ) .
it sequence be also verify before use .
sequence and use of pcr primer
a : 5 ′ - ccccggccctcaccctcatcttcg - 3 ′ , from the puδtk gene , assay target of flox plasmid ; b : 5 ′ - aacaaaacaaaacagcagcaacaa - 3 ′ , from sequence downstream of the p53 gene and outside flox sequence , assay target of flox and rmce with p53gfp or p53δpgfp plasmid ; c : 5 ′ - tgaagagcaagggcgtggtgaagga - 3 ′ , from gfp sequence , assay rmce with p53gfp orp53δpgfp plasmid ; d : 5 ′ - caaaaaatggaaggaaatcaggaactaa - 3 ′ , from p53 intron 3 , and e : 5 ′ - tctagacagagaaaaaagaggcatt - 3 ′ , from p53 intron 4 , assay rmce with p53δpgfp plasmid ; f : 5 ′ - atgggaggctgccagtcctaaccc and g : 5 ′ - gtgtttcattagttccccaccttgac - 3 ′ amplify the wt p53 allele according to taconic 's procedure , h : 5 ′ - tttacggagccctggcgctcgatgt - 3 ′ and i : 5 ′ - gtgggagggacaaaagttcgaggcc - 3 ′ amplify the neo marker in the p53 ko allele according to taconic 's procedure .
cell culture condition
primary mefs , isolate from 13.5 day embryo , be culture in dmem with 15 % fbs , 100 mm bme , 2 mm l - glutamine and antibiotic .
129 / svjae e cell be grow in the same medium supplement with 1000 u / ml esgro ( chemicon ) , on a layer of mitomycin c - treated snlpuro - 7 / 4 feeder ( kind gift of a. bradley ) .
selection be perform with 2 μg / ml puromycin , 0.2 μm fiau or 2 μm ganciclovir .
targeting / genotyping of the rmce - ready locus
29 / svjae e cell be electroporated with the flox construct linearize with pmei , and puromycin resistant clone be analyze a describe ( figure 2 ) .
two clone be inject into blastocyst and transmit through the germline .
perform rmce in e cell
a total of 8 × 105 p53rmce / + e cell be grow without puromycin for 12 h , electroporated with 15 μg cmv - cre plasmid ( pog231 ) and 200 μg of the exchange construct , and plat in t25 flask at 105 cell per flask .
fiau be add to the medium 3 – 4 day after electroporation .
individual clone , pick 10 day after electroporation , be grow in 96 - well plate and expand to generate duplicate plate for freeze and dna analysis by pcr and southern .
perform rmce in mefs
a total of 106 p53rmce / − mefs cell be grow without puromycin for 12 h , electroporated with 3 μg pog231 and 30 μg exchange construct , and plat in a single 10 cm - dish , grow for 3 day then split in several dish at 105 cell per dish .
fiau or ganciclovir be add to the medium 4 day after electroporation , for 3 – 4 day .
clone , pick 10 day after electroporation , be grow in 24 - well plate and expand for freezing and dna analysis .
western - blot
cell , untreated or treat for 24 h with 0.5 μg / ml adriamycin , be lysed on the dish in a buffer consist of 50 mm tris ( ph 8.0 ) , 5 mm edta , 150 mm nacl , 0.5 % nonidet p - 40 , 1 mm pmsf , 1 mm sodium vanadate , 10 mm naf and complete mini protease inhibitor ( roche diagnostics ) at 4 °c for 30 min .
lysates be scrap , then spin at 6000 × g at 4 °c for 10 min .
protein concentration in the supernatant be determine use the bio - rad dc protein assay .
lysates be separate on single percentage sd / page gel , then electrophoretically transfer to poly ( vinylidene difluoride ) , use standard procedure .
blot be incubate in 5 % non-fat dry milk in tbst ( 0.02 m tris , ph 7.6 / 0.35 m nacl / 0.1 % tween - 20 ) for 1 h at room temperature before probe with primary antibody against p53 ( cm - 5 , novacastra ) and - actin ( sigma ) .
secondary antibody use include peroxidase - conjugate goat anti-mouse igg and anti-rabbit igg ( pierce ) .
probe blot be incubate with pierce supersignal west pico chemiluminescent substrate and expose to x-ray film .
flow cytometry
log phase cell be irradiate at rt with a 60 co γ - irradiator at dos of 6 or 12 gy and incubate for 24 h .
cell be then pulse - label for 1 h with brdu ( 10 μm ) , fix in 70 % ethanol , double - stain with fitc anti-brdu and propidium iodide , then sort by use a becton dickinson facscan machine .
data be analyze use becton dickinson cellquest pro .
result and discussion
the rationale for rmce - asap be detail in figure 1 .
the first step require generate a floxed allele in e cell that will serve a the substrate for subsequent exchange ( rmce - ready e cell , figure 1 ) .
the target strategy be detail in figure 2 .
the frequency of targeting be 4 % ( 12 / 300 puromycin - resistant clone , analyze by southern blot and long - range pcr , figure 2 ) .
we next test the efficiency of rmce in e cell , use a replacement construct encode p53 fuse to gfp ( p53gfp ) to enable track p53 in individual live cell .
importantly however , gfp fluorescence be not use to screen cell with target event , a we want to develop a general method to isolate marker - free recombinant .
the exchange strategy be detail in figure 3a .
we pick 65 e cell clone resistant to 1 - ( - 2 - deoxy - 2 - fluoro - 1 - b - d - arabino - furanosyl ) - 5 - iodouracil ( fiau ) due to tk loss and analyze their dna by pcr and southern blot .
strikingly , 54 proper recombinant be identify , indicate very high rmce efficiency ( 83 % ) .
rmce also prove to be precise , a no aberrant band be detect in pcr and southern blot ( figure 3a ) .
p53 + / gfp e clone be analyze by western blot with an antibody against p53 , and find to express an additional band at the expect size ( ca. 80 kda ) .
surprisingly , the fusion of gfp to p53 apparently alter p53 stability : steady - state level of p53gfp be much high than those of wild - type p53 ( p53wt ) in unstressed cell , and do not vary significantly after dna damage , so that the level for both p53wt and p53gfp be similar after adriamycin treatment ( figure 3a ) .
six independent p53 + / gfp clone be inject into blastocyst and transfer to pseudo - pregnant female use standard procedure .
strikingly , no pregnancy be obtain .
it have be show that the p53 pathway be regulate very differently in e and somatic cell : e cell contain relatively high p53 level and lack the p53 - mediated dna damage response find in somatic cell ( 18 ) .
this , together with the observation that p53 level decrease during mouse embryogenesis ( 19 ) , suggest an explanation for the observe lack of pregnancy : we speculate that the high level of p53gfp in the e cell inject into blastocyst might have prevent normal embryonic development once these cell begin to differentiate and the p53 pathway become functional .
to test this possibility , we perform rmce with a p53 fusion gene in which the p53 proline - rich domain ( prd ) be delete ( p53δp ) , and the p53δp be fuse to gfp .
we use this mutant because delete the proline - rich domain decrease stability and compromise dna - damage response in vivo ( 5 ) .
accord to our hypothesis , this hypomorphic mutant should not prevent embryonic development .
rmce with a p53δpgfp replacement plasmid be again very efficient and western blot reveal an additional band of the predict molecular weight only in p53 + / δpgfp e cell ( figure 3b ) .
a expect , the prd deletion correlate with low expression level : p53δpgfp be much less abundant than p53wt in all p53 + / δpgfp clone ( figure 3b ) .
we next determine whether p53 + / δpgfp e cell could generate chimeric mouse and transmit the modify allele through the germline .
two p53 + / δpgfp e cell clone be inject into blastocyst and highly chimeric ( > 80 % ) mouse be obtain .
heterozygote pup be recover from the mating the chimera with wt mouse ( figure 3c ) .
these data demonstrate that marker - free rmce be very efficient in e cell and allow germline transmission of a target mutation ( see figure 1 , path a ) .
we next determine whether the rmce approach could be use to target mutation at the p53 allele in somatic cell ( figure 1 , path b ) .
we first verify that the rmce - ready p53 locus ( p53rmce ) could be transmit through the germline by mat p53rmce / + chimera with p53 + / − mouse ( 20 ) ( figure 4 ) .
importantly , this allow u to generate p53rmce / − mefs , which be use to test rmce at the p53 locus in somatic cell .
we first attempt rmce in mefs by electroporating p53rmce / − mefs with a cre - expression plasmid and the p53gfp plasmid , follow by selection with fiau or ganciclovir .
strikingly , no clone with an exchange allele be identify ( data not show ) .
rmce with p53gfp in e cell show that p53gfp be express at high level ( figure 3a ) , and a mention before , the p53 pathway that can be activate in mefs be not readily activate in e cell ( 18 ) .
the result above suggest that high level of p53gfp could be tolerate by e cell but toxic to mefs , so that mefs in which an rmce have occur fail to proliferate .
to test this possibility , p53rmce / − mefs be electroporated with the p53gfp replacement construct with or without a cre - expression plasmid , then analyze by fluorescence microscopy 48 h after electroporation .
the experiment be do without selection to enable observation of cell under condition where a failure to proliferate would not derive from fiau or ganciclovir toxicity but rather solely from the effect of p53gfp .
we observe a few fluorescent cell only when the cre expression plasmid be co-electroporated , suggest that such cell result from rmce .
importantly , the rare fluorescent cell have a flat , ‘ fried - egg ’ appearance typical of senescent cell ( figure 5a ) , and when plate be observe 5 day later , the cell have detach .
altogether , the result suggest that rmce can give rise to p53gfp - express mefs , but they die rapidly owe to p53gfp toxicity .
we also perform rmce in p53rmce / − mefs with the p53δpgfp construct .
p53δpgfp - express mefs be viable , recover with an efficiency of ∼ 40 % , and , a expect from e cell experiment , express a p53δpgfp protein at much low level than p53wt ( figure 5b ) .
unlike wt mefs , p53δp / δp mefs be unable to arrest cycle after irradiation ( 5 ) .
likewise , we find that irradiation dos that arrest p53rmce / − mefs ( which express a wild - type p53 from the rmce - ready locus , see figure 2 ) do not arrest p53δpgfp / − mefs ( figure 5c ) .
these data show that a single rmce - asap reaction in heterozygous mefs enable detection of a recessive phenotype .
the result confirm that delete the proline rich domain lead to less active p53 with impaired cell cycle control , and also indicate that a gfp c - terminal fusion can dramatically alter p53 regulation .
a summary of our result be present in table 1 .
these data report the development and implementation of an improve rmce approach that enable efficient allele modification in e cell to generate mouse and in heterozygous mefs to accelerate phenotypic analysis .
the success of rmce - asap rely on the integrate use of invert heterologous loxp site , a positive / negative selection marker that preserve the germline capacity of e cell , and , for somatic cell , the existence of a knock - out allele of the gene of interest .
these characteristic should make rmce - asap a robust and general technology for analysis of mammalian gene under condition that preserve normal control mechanism in different tissue .
in addition , rmce - asap could be use to generate fibroblastic cell line tailor for the repeat targeting of widely study gene ( p53 , c - myc , nf - kb , etc. ) .
acknowledgement
the author thank a. bradley for the puroδtk gene and snlpuro - 7 / 4 cell , p soriano for the dta gene , g. campbell for technical assistance and e. t. wong for helpful discussion .
the work be support by nih grant ca100845 and ca061449 to g.m.w.
f.t. be support in part by the institut pasteur and a fellowship from association pour la recherche sur le cancer .
fund to pay the open access publication charge for this article be provide by the institut pasteur .
conflict of interest statement .
none declare .
figure and table
figure 1
rationale for a rmce - asap .
use homologous recombination , the gene of interest ( goi , open box : exon ) , be target with a construct introduce upstream of cod region one loxp ( blue arrowhead ) and downstream , a positive / negative selection cassette ( red box ) and a second inverted heterologous loxp ( purple arrowhead ) to create rmce - ready e cell .
an exchange be perform in these cell by co-transfecting a cre expression plasmid and a marker - free plasmid with a floxed mutant goi ( green box : mutate exon ) , to produce a mutant mouse ( path a ) .
importantly rmce - asap incorporate two major improvement over classical rmce ( path b ) : ( i ) the positive / negative selection cassette do not prevent germline transmission , so that rmce - ready mouse can be obtain ; ( ii ) the selection cassette do not replace , but rather lie downstream of the goi .
this be a crucial requirement for accelerate phenotyping in somatic cell , a maintain a functional goi ensure that the rmce - ready locus still behave like a wt locus .
hence , after breed the rmce - ready mouse with mouse heterozygote for the goi , somatic cell with an rmce - ready locus and a wt or ko allele can be recover [ e.g. rmce / + and rmce / − mouse embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) ] .
such cell , phenotypically similar to + / + and + / − cell , can then be use for phenotypic analysis of dominant or recessive mutation after a single exchange .
figure 2
generate e cell with a p53 rmce - ready locus .
the p53 gene be contain in a 17 kb - long ecori ( ri ) fragment ( black box : cod sequence , white box : utrs ) .
the flox targeting construct ( below ) , the sequence which be verify before use ( material and method ) , contain ( i ) a 3.4 kb - long 5 ′ homology region ; ( ii ) 0.2 kb upstream of cod sequence , an ecori site and l3 , a mutant loxp [ loxp257 , ( 14 ) ] ; ( iii ) p53 exon ; ( iv ) 0.4 kb downstream , a puroδtk fusion gene ( pudtk ) for positive / negative selection ( 21 ) and an inverted wt loxp ( 1l ) ; ( v ) a 1.2 kb - long 3 ′ homology region and ( vi ) the diphteria α - toxin ( dta ) gene for target enrichment .
the recombinant result from the depict cross - over be identify by a 6.5 kb band in southern blot with probe a and a 3 kb band by pcr with primer a and b .
a representative southern , and pcr of one positive ( β ) and two negative clone , be show .
figure 3
perform rmce in e cell .
( a ) rmce with a p53gfp plasmid .
the exchange plasmid , the sequence which be verify before use , contain p53gfp cod sequence flank by l3 and 1l site .
it be electroporated with a cre expression plasmid .
fiau - resistant clone be analyze by pcr with primer b and c and southern blot with probe b .
both approach lead to identical result and identify 54 / 65 rmce recombinant .
representative clone ( p – z ) be show ( left ) , analyze by pcr ( top ) and southern ( bottom ) : all clone but q and t be positive with both assay .
all positive clone produce a band of the expect size by pcr , indicate correct recombination at 1l , and display only the expect 12 and 5 kb band by southern , indicate correct recombination at l3 .
the absence of band of aberrant size in southerns also indicate that the exchange plasmid be neither rearrange nor insert at ectopic site .
thus rmce be efficient and accurate .
recombinant clone be analyze by western blot with an antibody to p53 .
in the representative western ( right ) , cell from two independent p53 + / gfp e clone be leave untreated or treat with adriamycin ( adr ) at 0.5 μg / ml for 24 h , and protein extract be prepare .
p53gfp migrate at the expect size of 80 kda and be express at unexpectedly high level regardless of stress .
( b ) rmce with a p53δpgfp plasmid .
the p53δpgfp exchange construct ( which sequence be verify before use ) differ from the p53gfp construct only in that it contain a mutate exon 4 ( 4 * ) encode a prd deletion .
rmce be again very efficient , with 10 / 12 fiau - resistant clone produce a 3 kb band by pcr with primer b and c .
a western analysis of four fiau - resistant clone be show below ( with low / high exposure : lo x / hi x ) .
a expect , all except clone x express p53δpgfp .
p53δpgfp migrate at the expect size of 75 kda and accumulate after stress , but at low level than p53wt .
( c ) germline transmission of the p53δpgfp mutation .
dna of seven littermates ( u42 – u48 ) , obtain from mat a p53δpgfp chimera with a wt mouse , be analyze by pcr with primer d and e ( see b ) , with dna from wt , p53 + / δp and p53δp / δp mefs ( 5 ) a control .
u45 , a p53 + / δpgfp mouse , demonstrate transmission of the mutation .
figure 4
germline transmission of the p53 rmce - ready locus .
p53 rmce / + e cell be inject into blastocyst to generate chimeric mouse .
chimera ( > 80 % ) be then mat with p53+ / − mouse ( taconic ) and mefs be prepare .
mefs be first genotyped by pcr with primer a and b ( see figure 2 ) to detect the puroδtk marker of the rmce allele ( top ) .
this reveal germline transmission of the p53 rmce - ready locus in mefs 1 , 2 and 6 .
each of these three mef clone be far analyze ( bottom ) with primer f and g ( left lane ) and h and i ( right lane ) , routinely use to genotype p53 + / − mouse ( sequence in material and method ) .
primer f and g amplify a 320 bp product from a wt or rmce allele , while primer h and i specifically amplify a 150 bp product from the neo marker in the ko allele .
mef 1 be p53 rmce / + and mefs 2 and 6 be p53 rmce / − cell .
figure 5
perform rmce in mefs .
( a ) rmce with the p53gfp plasmid lead to the transient observation of cell with intense nuclear fluorescence .
p53 rmce / − mefs , electroporated with a cre expression plasmid and the p53gfp exchange plasmid , be analyze 48 h later by fluorescence microscopy .
a typical field ( left to right : fluorescence , phase contrast , merge ) with a fluorescent cell ( arrow ) be show .
the fluorescent cell be enlarge ( extreme right ) .
( b ) rmce with the p53δpgfp plasmid .
p53 rmce / − mefs , electroporated with a cre expression plasmid and the p53δpgfp plasmid , be select with ganciclovir .
pcr with primer d and e ( figure 3b ) indicate that 9 / 22 ganciclovir - resistant clone integrate the δp mutation [ top row , a representative analysis of 10 clone ( q – z ) be show ] .
pcr with primer b and c next verify that the detect prd deletion result from rmce at the p53 locus , not random integration ( middle row , a expect clone r , s , t and w be positive , but not q ) .
western analysis of positive clone ( bottom row ) show that p53δpgfp accumulate after adr , but at low level than p53wt .
( c ) phenotypic assay of p53δpgfp : loss of cell cycle control .
asynchronous p53 rmce / − and p53δpgfp / − mefs leave untreated , or irradiate with dos of 6 or 12 gy , be analyze ( top show a typical experiment ; bottom plot result from ≥ 4 independent experiment and ≥ 3 independent mefs ) .
note that the p53rmce locus encode a wt p53 .
table 1
summary of target experiment
in e cell , target p53δpgfp or p53gfp by rmce be ∼ 20 time more efficient than target flox by homologous recombination .
in mefs , due to p53gfp toxicity , only the target efficiency of rmce with p53δpgfp could be evaluate .
importantly , a phenotypic read - out of the p53δpgfp mutation in mefs , if it have be perform after target in fibroblast by homologous recombination , would have require two round of inefficient targeting to target both p53 allele .
function , expression and localization of annexin a7 in platelet and red blood cell : insight derive from an annexin a7 mutant mouse
abstract
background
annexin a7 be a ca2+ - and phospholipid - bind protein express a a 47 and 51 kda isoform , which be think to be involve in membrane fusion process .
recently the 47 kda isoform have be identify in erythrocyte where it be propose to be a key component in the process of the ca2+ - dependent vesicle release , a process with which red blood cell might protect themselves against an attack by for example complement component .
result
the role of annexin a7 in red blood cell be address in erythrocyte from anxa7 - / - mouse .
interestingly , the ca2+ - mediate vesiculation process be not impair .
also , the membrane organization appear not to be disturb a assess use gradient fractionation study .
instead , lack of annexin a7 lead to an altered cell shape and increase osmotic resistance of red blood cell .
annexin a7 be also identify in platelet .
in these cell it loss lead to a slightly slow aggregation velocity which seem to be compensate by an increase number of platelet .
the result appear to rule out an important role of annexin a7 in membrane fusion process occur in red blood cell .
instead the protein might be involve in the organization of the membrane cytoskeleton .
red blood cell may represent an appropriate model to study the role of annexin a7 in cellular process .
conclusion
we have demonstrate the presence of both annexin a7 isoforms in red blood cell and the presence of the small isoform in platelet .
in both cell type the loss of annexin a7 impair cellular function .
the defect observe be however not compatible with a crucial role for annexin a7 in membrane fusion process in these cell type .
background
annexin a7 be a ca2+ - and phospholipid - bind protein , which be isolate a the agent that mediate aggregation of chromaffin granule and fusion of phospholipid membrane in the presence of ca2+ .
this activity lead to the proposal of annexin a7 's involvement in the exocytotic secretion of catecholamine [ 1 ] .
the protein belong to a family of evolutionarily conserve protein of a bipartite structure with a variable n - terminal and a conserve c - terminal domain .
the c - terminal domain be responsible for the ca2+ - and phospholipid - bind , the n - terminal domain appear to confer functional diversity [ 2 - 4 ] .
the binding to negatively charged phospholipid be think to be mediate by ca2+ ion .
annexin a7 be unique in that it carry an extraordinarily long and hydrophobic amino terminus with more than 100 amino acid .
alternative splicing give rise to two isoforms of 47 and 51 kda .
both isoforms differ by an additional cassette exon located in the first third of the n - terminal domain .
most tissue harbor only the 47 kda isoform , both form be find in brain and heart , while the large isoform be exclusively express in mature skeletal muscle .
at the cellular level annexin a7 can be detect in the cytosol , at the plasma membrane , around the nucleus , at vesicular structure include adrenal chromaffin granule , and at the t - tubule system [ 5 , 6 ] .
annexin a7 translocate to membrane in a ca2+ - dependent fashion and , when intracellular ca2+ level rise , sequentially redistribute to the plasma and the nuclear membrane as well a to intracellular vesicle .
furthermore , annexin a7 associate with lipid raft [ 7 ] .
lipid raft play a key role in membrane budding and in vesiculation process such a endo - and exocytosis [ 8 - 10 ] .
two bind partner of annexin a7 have be identify , sorcin and galectin - 3 [ 11 - 13 ] .
sorcin be a ca2+ - bind protein and belong to the penta ef - hand protein family [ 14 ] .
like annexin a7 it bind to membrane in a ca2+ - dependent manner .
sorcin also have be describe a interaction partner of the ryanodine receptor , and appear to modulate it function [ 15 ] .
the influence of the sorcin / annexin a7 interaction on the ryanodine receptor be unknown .
sorcin and annexin a7 be coexpressed in all tissue examine so far [ 11 ] .
the binding of annexin a7 and sorcin be ca2+ - dependent and occur at micromolar ca2+ concentration .
the bind site have be localise to the amino terminal ggyy and gygg motif in sorcin and to the gypp motif in the amino terminus of annexin a7 .
the protein bind to each other with a stoichiometry of two sorcin molecule per annexin a7 molecule [ 12 ] .
galectin - 3 be a multifunctional oncogenic protein with an anti-apoptotic activity find in the extracellular space , in the nucleus and cytoplasm and in mitochondrion .
cytoplasmic galectin - 3 correlate with tumor progression and protect mitochondrial integrity .
down regulation of annexin a7 prevent galectin - 3 translocation to the perinuclear membrane and increase galectin - 3 secretion .
for annexin a7 a role for galectin - 3 trafficking , apoptosis regulation , and mitochondrial integrity be propose [ 13 ] .
the cellular role of annexin a7 be not well understand .
it be think to regulate and stabilize membrane domain and to have a role in ca2+ homeostasis and ca2+ - dependent signaling pathway .
these proposal be support by data obtain from analysis of annexin a7 deficient mouse mutant .
two annexin a7 129sv null mouse strain be generate independently use a different strategy .
the one of srivastava et al. [ 16 ] be lethal .
heterozygous mouse exhibit an insulin secretion defect and tumor phenotype .
the null strain report by herr et al. [ 17 ] be viable , healthy , and show no insulin secretion defect or other obvious defect .
however , in isolate cardiomyocytes the frequency - induce shortening be disturb .
here we have focus on the analysis of red blood cell and platelet of the anxa7 - / - mutant .
generally , red blood cell and platelet be think not to contain annexin a7 and only recently the 47 kda isoform have be report a component of red blood cell [ 7 ] .
red blood cell undergo various biochemical or morphological change that appear to be ca2+ - dependent process [ 18 , 19 ] .
one of them be the release of hemoglobin - contain exovesicles occur in vivo as well a in vitro [ 7 , 20 ] .
this process be think to represent a protective method of the red blood cell against an attack by for example complement component .
red blood cell which lack the ability to vesiculate cause a disease with red blood cell destruction and haemoglobinuria [ 21 ] .
there exist two type of vesicle , micro - and nanovesicles with a size of 180 nm and 60 nm , respectively .
they be enrich in cholesterol and sphingolipid rich lipid raft domain that be associate with protein like acetylcholinesterase , cell surface protein include a complement receptor , and the lipid raft protein stomatin and flotillin , but they lack any cytoskeletal protein [ 7 ] .
furthermore , they contain sorcin and annexin a7 attach to the lipid raft .
both protein be more abundant in nanovesicles .
the vesicle formation go along with several other change in the red blood cell like cytoskeletal rearrangement and change in the phospholipid orientation in the cellular membrane .
result
annexin a7 expression in red blood cell , red blood cell derive exovesicles and in platelet
salzer et al. recently report the presence of the 47 kda isoform of annexin a7 and it partner sorcin in micro - and nanovesicles derive from red blood cell where they be locate in the lumen and be also enrich in membrane raft [ 7 ] .
we have now extend these finding and show here that the 51 kda isoform be present as well .
in western blot of human red blood cell the 47 and 51 kda isoforms be detect use mab 203–217 ( fig. 1 ) .
the 47 kda isoform be detect in silver stain gel and it identity with annexin a7 confirm by peptide mass fingerprinting ( data not show ) .
the 51 kda isoform be only detect in western blot .
figure 1
expression of annexin a7 in human red blood cell ( 1 ) and human platelet ( 2 ) .
protein homogenate be separate by sd - page ( 12 % acrylamide ) .
the result western blot be probe with mab 203–217 , visualization be by a secondary peroxidase couple antibody follow by ecl .
both isoforms be detect in red blood cell , in platelet only the small isoform be present .
it presence in vesicle lead to the suggestion , that , along with raft domain , annexin a7 play a role in membrane organization and the vesiculation process .
to examine this , we analyse the ability of red blood cell derive from the annexin a7 knock out mouse ( anxa7 - / - ) to form exovesicles .
because of good accessibility and large available amount that lead to clear result , we include our data obtain with human blood .
independent of the presence of annexin a7 both type of exovesicles , micro - and nanovesicles , be release after ca2+ / ionophore treatment a determine by acetylcholine esterase activity and microscopic examination .
annexin a7 be present in both vesicle type where it be more enriched in nanovesicles ( fig. 2 ) .
the 51 kda isoform be only detectable in nanovesicles .
the quantity of both vesicle type do not differ between wild type and knock out red blood cell vesicle a determine by the ache - value ( a405 nanovesicles : ~ 0.18 ; a405 microvesicles : ~ 0.9 ; both , for wt and ko ) .
it appear that annexin a7 , although it have be describe to fuse membrane , be not a key component in the process of the formation of red blood cell exovesicles .
when we probe for the presence of sorcin in wild type and mutant vesicle we find that the sorcin level be reduce in the mutant nanovesicles ( fig. 2 ) .
figure 2
enrichment of annexin a7 and sorcin in exovesicles derive from red blood cell .
vesicle from wild type ( wt ) and anxa7 - / - mutant ( ko ) be generate with ca2+ / ionophore treatment , isolate by differential centrifugation and analyse by immunoblotting with mab 203 – 217 and a sorcin polyclonal antibody .
in general , annexin a7 and sorcin be more abundant in nanovesicles .
the 51 kda isoform of annexin a7 ( arrow ) be only observe in nanovesicles .
sample of both vesicle type be normalize accord to their acetylcholine esterase activity .
human red blood cell ( co ) be use for control and normalize independently .
to study the distribution of annexin a7 in red blood cell we use self form iodixanol density gradient .
both isoforms be present in the soluble fraction as well a in the gradient fraction where they be assume to be associate with membrane .
these membrane be exclusively plasma membrane a red blood cell be free of any organelle .
the distribution be however not homogeneous throughout the gradient .
this could reflect the binding of annexin a7 to membrane subdomains that have different lipid or lipid / protein composition a discuss by salzer et al. [ 7 ] .
likewise , sorcin do not exhibit a homogeneous distribution in the gradient .
moreover , it segregate into vesicle which be not associate with annexin a7 ( fig. 3 ) .
we also test platelet for annexin a7 expression and detect the 47 kda isoform ( fig. 1 ) .
figure 3
association of annexin a7 and sorcin with distinct red blood cell plasma membrane fraction .
lysed human red blood cell be add to a self form iodixanol density gradient .
the density of the gradient increase from left ( 1.06 g / ml ) to right ( 1.20 g / ml ) .
fraction be analyse by immunoblotting use mab 203 – 217 and the sorcin polyclonal antibody .
the lack of annexin a7 change red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance
a annexin a7 be a component of red blood cell vesicle we study the consequence of the loss of the protein in the anxa7 - / - mouse for red blood cell morphology and osmotic resistance .
in a standard ' blood smear ' we do not note a deformation of the cell , however dark field microscopy reveal change in shape and diameter of the anxa7 - / - red blood cell .
they have a statistically significant large cell diameter of 6.0 μm compare to wild type with 5.7 μm ( p = 0.015 , n = 40 ) , a remarkably low emphasize central impression and a more flat shape ( fig. 4 ) .
no significant change in the mean corpuscular volume ( mcv ) be measure with the advia 120 cell counter .
figure 4
dark field microscopy of red blood cell from anxa7 - / - mutant ( b ) and wild type mouse ( a ) .
the mean cellular diameter be 6.0 μm and 5.7 μm , respectively .
the size difference be statistically significant ( p = 0.015 ; n = 40 ) .
bar , 3 μm .
shape and mcv of a red blood cell essentially influence it function and capillary passage .
the typical biconcave form depend on various influence include the membrane lipid composition and the submembranous cytoskeleton [ 32 ] where annexin a7 might play a role .
the osmotic resistance , which be the resistance towards change in the extracellular ionic strength , be a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity .
it be measure a the sodium chloride concentration at which cellular lysis start ( minimal resistance ) up to a complete lysis ( maximal resistance ) of the cell [ 33 ] .
osmotic resistance increase with high mcv , large surface area and a high degree of cellular metabolism stabilize the intracellular ion level .
age red blood cell show a lowered mcv and low osmotic resistance [ 33 ] .
similar property can be observe in red blood cell with lower membrane permeability .
the osmotic resistance of annexin a7 deficient red blood cell be significantly increase compare to wild type cell .
the minimal resistance value of knock out cell be observe in a 0.60 % nacl solution versus 0.65 % for wild type cell .
50 % haemolysis be achieve at 0.516 % nacl solution for knock out versus 0.564 % nacl for wild type cell ( mean value , p = 0.00066 , n = 8 ; fig. 5 ) .
the resistance width of the knock out cell be slightly low ( 0.20 % instead of 0.25 % nacl solution ) .
we also perform direct measurement of the red blood cell membrane deformability , to far characterize a possible role of annexin a7 on the membrane stability .
with micropipette experiment we try to correlate mechanical characteristic of the red blood cell with their morphology .
we could not observe any statistically significant difference of value describe membrane rigidity and lysis force in these experiment ( m. heil , b. hoffmann and r. merkel , unpublished result ) .
however , the distinction observe in the osmotic resistance experiment be highly significant and reflect a mean value over a high number of different red blood cell .
figure 5
osmotic resistance curve of red blood cell from wild type and anxa7 - / - mutant mouse .
the osmotic resistance towards change in the extracellular ionic strength be a convenient assay for analysis of the red blood cell integrity .
it be measure a a sodium chloride concentration in which cellular lysis start ( minimal resistance ) up to a complete lysis ( maximal resistance ) of a red blood cell .
the osmotic resistance of annexin a7 deficient red blood cell be significantly increased compare to the one of wild type ( p = 0.00066 ; n = 8 ) .
these data suggest that annexin a7 contribute to the shape of red blood cell and the osmotic resistance .
a we have not observe a binding of annexin a7 to f - actin ( data not show ) it could do so either by alteration of the membrane rigidity and / or by affect the ion homeostasis .
the lack of annexin a7 affect primary haemostasis ex vivo
the use of an advanced electronic cell counter / flow cytometer ( advia 120 ) allow u to screen other parameter as well despite of the limited murine blood volume .
we analyse leukocyte , red blood cell , haemoglobin content , haematocrit , mean cellular volume , mean cellular haemoglobin , mean cellular haemoglobin concentration , platelet , neutrophile , lymphocyte , monocyte , eosinophile and basophile .
in these test of whole blood we find only a change in the platelet number , whereas all other haematological parameter be not affect .
the mean platelet count from wild type and anxa7 - / - mutant mouse be determine a 674 × 103 / μl and 774 × 103 / μl , respectively .
the platelet count in knock out mouse be significantly high ( p = 0.0275 ; n knock out = 11 , n wild type = 14 ) .
an increase in platelet count be a rather uncommon disorder .
in human , platelet count normally increase only transiently a in reactive thrombocytosis and under postoperative condition or be largely increase in neoplastic disease .
by contrast , the anxa7 - / - mouse be healthy and viable .
therefore we test the platelet function and perform aggregometry measurement with platelet rich plasma .
platelet activation be observe a a morphological change from the rest discoid state to activate spherical cell with pseudopod .
the morphological change be due to cytoskeletal rearrangement .
in vitro the activate cell form aggregate recruit additional cell in the solution thereby reduce it cloudiness .
analysis of the transmission value of aggregation curve after platelet activation by ristocetin addition ( von willebrand cofactor ) show that both curve differ significantly at the time point of seven second after platelet initiation ( p = 0.0287 , n knock out = 16 , n wild type = 15 ; fig. 6 ) .
annexin a7 deficient platelet show a slightly lower aggregation velocity .
when we compare the aggregation curve of human platelet from a healthy donor with the one obtain from an individual with a von willebrand factor type 1 defect , we find that the difference in the curve be much more pronounced a observe in our study of healthy mouse platelet and anxa7 - / - platelet .
furthermore we find that murine platelet respond immediately to the initiate chemical whereas human platelet have a lag phase [ 23 ] .
figure 6
platelet aggregation curve from platelet rich plasma of annexin a7 knock out and wild type mouse .
the transmission value be measure with an apact photometer and aggregation be initiate by add ristocetin .
the first thirty second be give .
constant platelet count be use throughout all experiment .
the aggregation curve data be analyse for slope value , the maximal aggregation amplitude of every single curve be set to 100 % .
both murine curve differ significantly at a time point of seven second after platelet initiation , the mutant show a slightly low aggregation velocity ( p = 0.0287 , n knock out = 16 , n wild type = 15 , mean knock out = 67.7 % transmission , mean wild type = 77.1 % transmission , standard error knock out = 8.3 % transmission , standard error wild type = 13.8 % transmission ) .
murine platelet react immediately to the initiate chemical and show no lag phase like the normal human platelet .
for comparison of the range of the platelet impairment slightly affect human platelet be show as well ( von willebrand syndrome ) .
discussion
annexin a7 be think to have a role in vesicle fusion and in regulate and stabilize membrane domain [ 1 ] .
the protein have be localize to the plasma membrane include raft subdomains , furthermore it be present in the cytosol where it be find on subcellular vesicle - like structure .
this distribution appear to be independent of the tissue or cell type analyse .
in specialize or terminally differentiate cell , expression level increase and frequently the large of the two isoforms be be express [ 6 , 34 , 35 ] .
red blood cell , which be think to be devoid of annexin a7 , be recently show to harbor the 47 kda isoform together with it bind partner sorcin [ 7 ] .
we show the presence of the 51 kda isoform as well , add red blood cell to the list of cell that harbor this isoform .
salzer et al. [ 7 ] not only demonstrate the presence of annexin a7 in red blood cell , they also show that annexin a7 and sorcin be enriched in membrane raft domain of nanovesicles form from red blood cell in vitro .
raft domain in general be consider key player in membrane organization and in mediate the vesiculation process .
they result from the clustering of sphingolipids and cholesterol in the out leaflet of the membrane connect to phospholipid and cholesterol in the inner leaflet and be enriched in special protein .
biochemically raft be define a membrane that be resistant to extraction by cold triton x - 100 and can be float to low density in sucrose gradient centrifugation [ 36 ] .
the finding of caohuy et al. [ 37 ] that annexin a7 mediate membrane aggregation also suggest that annexin a7 be an essential component during vesiculation .
in addition they report a further activation of the vesiculation process by gtp and propose that annexin a7 act a a gtpase .
similarly , the presence of gtp enhance the secretion of surfactant by annexin a7 .
these result be think to support a direct role for annexin a7 in surfactant secretion , but in these study annexin a7 mediate membrane fusion be separate from a second gtp - dependent mechanism [ 38 ] .
have an annexin a7 knockout mouse we test the involvement of annexin a7 in budding of red blood cell vesicle .
our data suggest that the efficiency of micro - and nanovesicle formation be not significantly different in wild type and mutant red blood cell .
likewise , dictyostelium discoideum cell , in which the single annexin gene be inactivated , be not impaired in process require membrane fusion [ [ 39 ] ; and data unpublished ] .
it might well be that the observe fusion of phospholipid layer by annexin a7 in the presence of high ca2+ concentration may turn out to be an in vitro effect .
similarly , the high abundance of annexin a7 in micro - and nanovesicles might be fortuitous a a significant percentage of the red blood cell membrane , with which annexin a7 associate when the ca2+ level rise , appear to be involve in the formation of exovesicles .
furthermore , the distribution of both annexin a7 isoforms in gradient of red blood cell indicate a function which differ from organize subcellular membrane or membrane pathway .
whereas annexin a2 be tightly associate with endosomes and may have function in membrane fusion and the endosomal pathway , annexin a7 distribute with plasma membrane raft domain of different type and density .
interestingly , in vesicle of red blood cell lack annexin a7 the amount of sorcin be lower , indicate that it localisation be affect by the loss of annexin a7 or it expression during red blood cell development be reduce .
have exclude a direct role in vesicle formation and membrane fusion , annexin a7 might act by it property a ca2+ - bind protein [ 17 ] .
previous result in which annexin a7 be show to play a role in membrane aggregation might be explain by a supportive function of annexin a7 in that it interfere with the local ca2+ homeostasis thus influence membrane organization .
a the annexins belong to a wide spread and evolutionarily conserve protein family , redundant , but not identical function be expect .
however , so far no other member of the annexin family , which may substitute for annexin a7 , have be describe in red blood cell .
the structural basis for the elasticy of red blood cell in circulation be long range molecular function of the plasma membrane and the membrane associate part of the cytoskeleton [ 40 - 43 ] .
major constituent of the membrane skeleton be spectrin tetramers link together by short actin filament and several other protein cover the entire cytoplasmic surface of the red blood cell membrane [ 44 ] .
membrane cholesterol diminish red blood cell haemolysis by the complement complex , whereas depletion of raft cholesterol abrogate association of all raft protein with no significant effect on area in the rest of the cell membrane and deformability [ 45 , 46 ] .
annexin a7 knock out mouse red blood cell show a more flat shape and have a high osmotic resistance .
the presence of annexin a7 may alter the membrane flexibility in that it support the typical biconcave membrane shape and lead to a low minimal osmotic resistance .
annexin a7 do not appear to have an influence on plasma membrane integrity itself a the maximal osmotic resistance value stay constant .
ca2+ and membrane skeletal protein be know to play key role on the red blood cell membrane shape and stability [ 47 ] .
annexins have be report to bind directly to f - actin , we could however exclude such an activity for annexin a7 .
nevertheless it might interact with other component and have a role in organize the membrane cytoskeleton , control raft protein association or influence the ionic strength of red blood cell on it own or by interfere with other signaling pathway .
a discuss above annexin a7 could be involve in the cytoplasmic ca2+ homeostasis .
it have be demonstrate that micromolar change of the intracellular ca2+ concentration exert a profound effect on the membrane property that regulate red blood cell deformability [ 48 , 49 ] .
furthermore , the intracellular ca2+ be show to regulate the membrane stability through modulation of cytoskeletal protein interaction [ 50 ] .
ca2+ also induce a transbilayer phospholipid redistribution induce a shape change of red blood cell [ 51 ] .
in addition , ca2+ ion can drive spiculation of the membrane bilayer without involve the cytoskeleton [ 52 ] .
we have also observe a defect in platelet function in the annexin a7 mutant .
in the platelet aggregation experiment the initial aggregation velocity be slightly , but significantly low in platelet lack annexin a7 .
these data be not reflect by a change in the in vivo bleeding time .
however the reaction speed of murine platelet be much high than those of human and due to the technical setup we might have miss large change in the mouse sample .
the immediate reaction of mouse platelet and the absence of a lag phase after triggering may be cause by an immediately initiate thrombin generation [ 22 ] .
a know from the frequent human vwf - syndrome or other haemostatic disease , small defect often be clinically silent and do not result in physiological change under normal condition .
only in situation with severe physical injury , distinct environmental influence or additional platelet attribute like the platelet antigen polymorphism [ 53 ] difference might become apparent .
conclusion
in this paper we report the presence of both annexin a7 isoforms in red blood cell where they be abundant in nanovesicles that form upon ca2+ addition .
the protein be however not require for the vesiculation process .
they be also not essential for the formation of specific membrane domain such a lipid raft , a exogenously add recombinant annexin a7 redistribute to similar position in a density gradient contain membrane derive from red blood cell of anxa7 - / - mouse .
the observe cell shape change of erythrocyte lack annexin a7 might be due to alteration in the erythrocyte cytoskeleton .
a a direct interaction with f - actin be rule out , this effect might be mediate by annexin 's ca2+ - bind activity .
method
acquisition of murine and human blood sample
blood from 129sv wild type and annexin a7 knock out mouse ( anxa7 - / - ) keep under pathogen - free condition and feed with regular food , be collect in 1 ml syrinx with a 22 gauge needle punctating the right cardiac ventricle immediately after they have be kill by cervical dislocation .
coagulation generally be inhibit with 1 / 10 volume of 10 mm naedta , ph 7.5 , already present in the syringe .
the mouse be kill by cervical dislocation in order to avoid any effect of anaesthetic chemical on blood parameter .
the wild type and mutant mouse be match regard their age , weight and sex .
the daytime of blood collection , sample site and collection method be keep constant during all experiment .
a typical murine blood sample volume consist of 550 μl , with variation range from 200 μl to 900 μl .
human blood sample from the author be collect by vein puncture use common edta - monovettes ( sarstedt ) .
we perform our study use well standardized sampling condition , a difference in the blood sampling site , for example between tail and heart , show large change in all cell type count .
first and second sample draw affect blood measurement , too [ 22 ] .
also the genetic background in common laboratory and transgenic mouse affect the phenotype .
a change from one strain to another may protect mouse from effect of the primarily induce genetic defect .
for example , balb / c mouse have a significantly increase velocity of platelet aggregation a compare to 129sv mouse , which be use throughout this study [ 23 ] .
self form iodixanol density gradient of human red blood cell
the subcellular distribution of annexin a7 be address accord to [ 24 ] .
red blood cell be centrifuge and wash in isotonic buffer salt solution , collect in ice cold lysis buffer ( 20 mm hepes , ph 7.4 , 200 μm cacl2 , 0.25 m sucrose , and proteinase inhibitor ( roche ) ) , homogenize by a loosely fitting dounce homogenizer and additional passage through a 22 gauge needle .
a 50 % iodixanol solution be establish by mix optiprep solution ( 60 % iodixanol ; sigma ) with buffer ( 120 mm hepes , ph 7.4 , 1.2 mm cacl2 , 0.25 m sucrose ) .
seven part of this 50 % iodixanol solution be mix with thirteen part of the red blood cell solution , generate a gradient solution contain 17.5 % iodixanol .
the mixture be fill into a centrifuge tube underlay by cushion of 30 % and 35 % iodixanol and centrifuge for 3 hour at 270,000 × g in a sw41 ti swing out rotor ( beckman ) to achieve a nearly linear density gradient ( approximately 1.06 g / ml to 1.20 g / ml ) [ 24 ] .
fraction of 0.6 ml be collect from the top of the gradient by a 1 ml syringe without use a needle and immediately freeze in liquid nitrogen for further use .
exovesicle generation from human and murine red blood cell
red blood cell naturally can form hemoglobin contain exovesicles .
in vitro these vesicle formation be ca2+ induce .
freshly collect lithium - heparin anticoagulated blood sample be centrifuge for 5 minute at 400 × g and 4 °c .
the erythrocyte be wash five time with 20 mm hepes , ph 7.5 , and 150 mm nacl ( wash buffer ) .
a volume of 500 μl wash red blood cell be combine with 3 ml of vesiculation buffer ( 20 mm hepes , ph 7.5 , 150 mm nacl , 1 mm cacl2 adjust to 5 μm ca2+ ionophore a23187 ) and incubate for 30 minute at 37 °c .
after incubation edta be add to the solution to a final concentration of 5 mm and centrifuge for 5 minute at 400 × g and 4 °c .
the supernatant be collect and centrifuge for 20 minute at 15,000 × g and 4 °c .
the result pellet be resuspend in wash buffer and centrifuge at 400 × g again to collect a supernatant enrich with red blood cell microvesicles .
the supernatant of the 15,000 × g step be far centrifuge for 60 minute at 100,000 × g and 4 °c .
the final pellet of this step be resuspend in wash buffer and centrifuge at 15,000 × g again to purify a supernatant enrich in nanovesicles accord to [ 7 , 20 ] .
the vesicle be assay for acetylcholine esterase activity and use for further analysis .
acetylcholine esterase assay
a 30 μl sample of red blood cell vesicle be mix with an equal volume of buffer ( 20 mm hepes , ph 7.6 , 150 mm nacl , 0.5 % triton x - 100 ) , vortexed and incubate for 5 minute at 37 °c .
subsequently 640 μl sodium phosphate buffer ( 100 mm na2po4 , ph 7.6 ) , 50 μl dtnb ( 5 , 5 ' - dithiobis - ( 2 - nitrobenzoic acid ) , 10 mm in sodium phosphate buffer ) , and 50 μl acetylthiocholine chloride ( 12 , 5 mm in h2o ) be add .
the reaction take place at room temperature and be measure photometrically at a wavelength of 405 nm accord to the ellmann ' method [ 25 ] .
determination of the osmotic resistance of red blood cell
a na2hpo4 / nah2po4 buffer nacl gradient ( ph 7.4 ) comprise of the follow nacl step be use for this assay : 0.90 % , 0.65 % , 0.60 % , 0.55 % , 0.50 % , 0.45 % , 0.40 % , 0.35 % , 0.30 % , 0.10 % .
for each step 5 ml of the gradient step solution and 50 μl blood sample be carefully invert four time and incubate for 30 minute in the dark .
sample be carefully invert again and centrifuge at 1,500 × g for 10 minute .
from 1 ml supernatant of each step the extinction at 546 nm wavelength be measure .
the experiment be perform at room temperature .
platelet aggregation assay
approximately 500 μl of murine blood be centrifuge at 200 × g for 15 minute .
the result supernatant be transfer to new tube and use a platelet rich plasma ( prp ) .
the platelet aggregation measurement be do accord to the method develop by born and cross [ 26 ] use an apact photometer ( labor , ahrendsburg , frg ) and the apact software ( apact 1.4 ) .
subsequently sample of the prp be adjust with buffer ( 5 mm hepes , 150 mm nacl , ph 7.3 ) to 250,000 platelet / μl .
a constant platelet count be use throughout allow comparison between wild type and knock out murine and human sample .
250 μl adjust platelet be prewarmed to 37 °c and use in the assay , and the aggregation process be start by add 25 μl of a prewarmed 16.5 mg / ml ristocetin solution ( diamed diagnostica , bensheim , frg ; concentration in the assay : 1.5 mg / ml ) , a reagent which work reliably in our hand with mouse and human platelet .
each murine assay represent a different animal .
analysis of human blood sample be perform a describe in the manufacturer 's protocol .
several repeated measurement be do per human individual to control the reproducibility .
the acquire aggregation curve data , measure a ascend degree of transmission , be analyse for maximal slope value , while the maximal aggregation amplitude of every single curve be set to 100 % .
in general , all platelet procedure be do at 22 °c within four hour after collect the blood sample .
miscellaneous method
for standard haematopoetic measurement and cell count on murine and human blood sample about 300 μl of blood be analyse with an advia 120 electronic cell counter ( bayer ) .
with this equipment red blood cell and platelet be " transform " into spherical body without change their volume .
therefore number and volume of red blood cell and platelet be not calculate value , but directly measure value .
the follow data be statistically analyse : leucocyte , red blood cell , haemoglobin , haematocrit , mean cellular volume , mean cellular haemoglobin , mean cellular haemoglobin concentration , platelet number , neutrophile , lymphocyte , monocyte , eosinophile , basophile .
peptide mass fingerprinting be perform on a bruker reflex iv maldi - tof mass spectrometer .
recombinant annexin a7 be purify accord to [ 27 ] , f - actin - bind of recombinant annexin a7 be do a describe [ 28 ] .
sd - page and western blotting be do a describe [ 29 , 30 ] .
detection in immunoblots be with enhance chemiluminescence [ 17 ] .
antibody employ be mab 203 – 217 direct against mouse annexin a7 core domain [ 5 ] and a polyclonal rabbit anti-sorcin antibody [ 31 ] .
for statistical analysis the follow test be perform : david et al. range test to ensure sample be from a normal distribution , f - test look for a sample ' homoscedascity , student 's t - test to judge if sample of different group have a different mean value and be part from different normal distribution .
the exact probability value and the significance of an analysis be indicate when the experiment be describe .
author ' contribution
ch and csc plan and carry out the experiment with the red blood cell and platelet and the fractionation study and draft the manuscript , gl be responsible for platelet , rk give support on the advia 120 cell counter , evaluate and discuss the result , smp and bsg give support on the apact system , platelet aggregation experiment , and evaluate the result , cz be responsible for the sorcin study , m study the cytoskeletal activity of the protein , aan conceive of the study and participate in it design .
all author read and approve the manuscript .
acknowledgement
we would like to thank m. heil , b. hoffmann and r. merkel for the biophysical experiment , l. eichinger for discussion , b. gassen for expert technical assistance and r. müller for protein purification .
mass spectrometric analysis be perform in the central service facility of the zmmk .
this worked be support by a grant from the zmmk ( center of molecular medicine cologne ) .
m - calpain be require for preimplantation embryonic development in mouse
abstract
background
μ - calpain and m - calpain be ubiquitously express protease implicate in cellular migration , cell cycle progression , degenerative process and cell death .
these heterodimeric enzyme be compose of distinct catalytic subunit , encode by capn1 ( μ - calpain ) or capn2 ( m - calpain ) , and a common regulatory subunit encode by capn4 .
disruption of the mouse capn4 gene abolish both μ - calpain and m - calpain activity , and result in embryonic lethality , thereby suggest essential role for one or both of these enzyme during mammalian embryogenesis .
disruption of the capn1 gene produce viable , fertile mouse imply that either m - calpain could compensate for the loss of μ - calpain , or that the loss of m - calpain be responsible for death of capn4 - / - mouse .
result
to distinguish between the alternative describe above , we delete an essential coding region in the mouse capn2 gene in embryonic stem cell and transmit this mutant allele through the mouse germline .
breeding of heterozygous animal fail to produce homozygous mutant live offspring or implant embryo .
a nest pcr genotyping protocol be establish , and homozygous preimplantation mutant embryo be detect at the morula but not at the blastocyts stage .
conclusion
we conclude that homozygous disruption of the capn2 gene result in pre-implantation embryonic lethality between the morula and blastocyst stage .
this establish that μ - calpain and m - calpain have distinct function , and that m - calpain be vital for development of the preimplantation murine embryo .
background
the two ubiquitous ca2 + - dependent , cysteine protease know a μ - calpain ( calpain - 1 ) and m - calpain ( capain - 2 ) , be the founding member of a gene family comprise 13 gene in mammal [ 1 - 3 ] .
both be heterodimeric enzyme consist of distinct 80 kda catalytic subunit , encode by the capn1 ( μ - 80 k ) and capn2 ( m - 80 k ) gene , respectively , that associate with a common 28 kda regulatory subunit encode by the capn4 gene .
the μ - 80 k and m - 80 k subunit share 62 % amino acid sequence identity , and be very similar in term of structure , protein chemistry , and in vitro substrate specificity .
despite these similarity , the differential expression pattern of μ - and m - calpain in mammalian tissue suggest they have some isoform specific and distinct function .
the μ and m designation derive from the level of ca2 + require in vitro for optimal activation ; 10 – 50 μm ca2 + for μ - calpain and 0.3 – 0.35 mm ca2 + for m - calpain .
it be generally assume that μ - and m - calpain maintain their differential sensitivity to calcium in vivo , although this have not yet be strictly demonstrate .
furthermore , since the cytoplasmic free ca2 + concentration be typically less than 1 μm , it be also assume that other in vivo factor must contribute to regulation of these enzyme [ 3 ] .
without apriori knowledge of the factor regulate calpain activity or their relevant substrate , elucidation of biological function for calpains present a challenge .
research on calpains have link them with a wide variety of function include muscle growth , development , degeneration ( 3 ) , neuronal growth and neurodegeneration [ 4 ] , cell cycle progression [ 5 , 6 ] , signal cascade trigger by integrins and growth factor [ 7 ] , membrane protrusion [ 8 ] , remodel of the cytoskeleton and cell migration [ 9 - 15 ] , and regulation of cell death via both necrosis and apoptosis [ 16 - 22 ] .
to date , the literature suggest a complex interplay between caspase and calpains [ 23 , 24 ] and impact of calpain on cell death pathway component [ 25 ] .
the lack of highly specific cell - permeable inhibitor of calpains contribute to the challenge of investigate and define calpain function in these process .
although over-expression of calpastatin , the endogenous protein inhibitor of μ - and m - calpain provide an important approach for these effort , it will not distinguish isoform specific function [ 24 , 26 , 27 ] .
some work have suggest isoform specific role , such a a role for m - calpain in epidermal growth factor ( egf ) - induce cell motility [ 28 , 29 ] and a role for μ - calpain in interferon - inducible protein 9 - induce migration of keratinocytes [ 28 ] .
a cell permeable calpain inhibitor ( which likely inhibit other thiol - protease as well ) have be use to select cell lack μ - calpain which display reduce proliferation rate [ 30 ] .
interestingly , m - calpain expression persist in these cell , suggest a possible requirement of m - calpain for cell survival [ 30 ] .
target gene deletion in mouse provide a powerful approach to determine the physiological role of μ - and m - calpain and the opportunity to approach their isoform specific function .
initial study target capn4 base on the prediction that loss of this calpain subunit would abolish activity of both μ - and m - calpain .
capn4 - / - murine embryo die between day 10 and 11 of gestation , and there be no detectable μ - or m - calpain activity in these or young embryo [ 31 ] .
capn4 - / - murine embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) could be culture from these embryo , although they also lack calpain activity a assess by casein zymography or by the formation of characteristic spectrin breakdown product , and they display migration defect consistent with a role for calpain in release of focal adhesion [ 9 ] .
an independently derive capn4 knockout , involve a more extensive deletion of the gene , result in an early embryonic lethality , apparently at a pre-implantation stage [ 32 ] .
the different time of embryonic lethality suggest that the first report capn4 - / - mouse [ 31 ] be target with a hypomorphic mutation , which retain some small level of calpain activity , allow for their survival to mid-gestation , while the second report capn4 - / - mouse [ 32 ] represent a true null mutation .
disruption of capn1 , encode the μ - calpain catalytic subunit , be subsequently report to result in fertile , viable mouse with some mild defect in the μ - calpain rich platelet relate to their aggregation and clot retraction [ 33 ] .
the fact that capn4 null mouse die during embryogenesis indicate that at least one of the ubiquitous calpains be essential for development to term .
the viability of capn1 - deficient mouse do not however distinguish between two possibility : either that m - calpain be specifically require during embryogenesis , or that either form of calpain alone be sufficient and can compensate for the absence of the other .
to resolve this question , we have now knock out the capn2 gene encode the m - 80 k subunit in mouse .
we report here that capn2 null embryo die prior to the implantation stage , indicate that m - calpain be indispensable for early embryogenesis .
this role can not be fulfil by μ - calpain , which be express in embryonic stem ( e ) cell [ 31 ] and be assume to be present at this stage of gestation .
this demonstrate unequivocally that m - calpain and μ - calpain have distinct physiological role during early embryogenesis .
result
isolation and characterization of capn2 target e cell clone
two independent capn2 + / - e cell line , designate es27 and es36 , be isolate from a screen of 305 drug - resistant clone .
correct targeting of the capn2 locus be establish both by southern blot hybridization and pcr analysis .
a probe locate outside the short ( upstream ) arm of homology hybridize to a 3.5 - kb bamhi fragment of the wild - type allele and 5.3 - kb bamhi fragment of the mutant allele a predict from genomic map ( figure 2a ) .
the same probe also detect the expect 7.2 - kb wild - type and 6.4 - kb mutant bglii fragment , 4.9 - kb wild - type and 5.7 - kb mutant ncoi fragment , as well a 7.2 - kb wild - type and 4.9 - kb mutant bglii / agei fragment ( not show ) .
a probe derive from the pgk - neo cassette recognize only the 5.3 - kb bamhi fragment in capn2 + / - e cell , suggest that the targeting vector have integrate solely at the capn2 locus ( not show ) .
a pcr screening method be also establish that generate a wild - type product of 2,749 bp and a 2,711 bp product from the mutant allele .
the 2,711 bp product be only evident in the two target cell line ( figure 2b ) .
figure 2
characterization of target e cell line .
( a ) target disruption of the capn2 locus be detect initially by southern blotting .
membrane be blot with bamhi - digest genomic dna extract from e cell and hybridize with a dig - label 823 bp bamhi / hindiii fragment locate immediately upstream of the short arm of the targeting vector ( figure 1 ) .
a 3.5 - kb bamhi fragment correspond to the wild - type allele be present in all cell , whereas a 5.3 - kb fragment from the mutant allele be detect in two target cell line , designate es27 and es36 .
( b ) pcr genotyping be carry out with two separate reaction design to amplify either a 2,748 bp segment from the wild - type allele or a 2,711 bp segment from the mutant allele .
both reaction use a common sense primer locate in intron 4 , outside the short arm of the targeting vector , and distinct allele - specific antisense primer .
the reaction to detect the wild - type allele use an antisense primer locate in exon 7 while the amplification of the mutant sequence be do with an antisense primer in the pgk - neo cassette .
the result confirm the presence of the wild - type allele in all cell , whereas the mutant allele signal be observe only in the two target clone .
( m ) denote the molecular weight marker .
generation of chimeric mouse and germline transmission of the mutant capn2 allele
eight chimeric male mouse be produce in morula aggregation experiment use the capn2 + / - es27 cell line .
two of these male transmit the capn2 + / - es27 genotype through the germline into the f1 generation .
heterozygous capn2 + / - animal appear normal , with no obvious defect in gross anatomy , reproduction , or life span .
out of 199 weanlings from heterozygous intercrosses , no capn2 - / - progeny be detect ( table 2 ) .
we do not observe high rate of perinatal death , and no capn2 - / - stillborns be observe .
this suggest that capn2 - / - animal perish at some stage during embryonic development .
in an attempt to determine if embryonic death occur at a post-implantation stage , embryo be harvest for genotyping at different time between e10.5 and e18.5 .
no capn2 - / - embryo be observe and no sign of embryo resorption be detect ( table 2 ) .
this indicate that the capn2 - / - embryo might be die prior to implantation .
embryo be then flush from the oviduct of pregnant female at e2.5 or e3.5 , and genotyped by mean of a nest pcr strategy ( figure 4 ) .
two of 90 successfully genotyped pre-implantation embryo be capn2 - / - , ( table 2 ; figure 5 ) .
both of these capn2 - / - embryo be isolate at the 8 - cell stage and do not display any obvious morphological defect .
none of the 46 successfully genotyped blastocyst - stag embryo be capn2 - / - .
the scarcity of capn2 - deficient embryo survive to the 8 - cell stage suggest that the loss of m - calpain activity must fatally compromise the viability of early embryo .
furthermore , it be possible that persistence of some maternally derive mrna transcript or protein might have allow a small number of capn2 - / - embryo to survive to the morula - stage .
table 2
genotype distribution of offspring derive from capn2 transgenic mouse .
* nd , not determine
figure 4
nest pcr strategy for genotyping of pre-implantation embryo .
due to the scarcity of extractable genetic material , a nest pcr strategy be develop in order to genotype pre-implantation embryo .
separate reaction be use to amplify a 429 bp fragment from the wild - type allele and a 389 bp segment from the mutant allele , both span the 3 ' end of the short ( upstream ) arm of the targeting vector .
in both reaction , a 213 bp sequence locate within the short arm be co-amplified with the ' diagnostic ' product a an internal control .
the same sense primer be use to amplify ' diagnostic ' sequence in both reaction , whereas the antisense primer be allele - specific .
the primer , represent by triangle , be depict in two ( nest ) set for each of the three reaction .
exon be represent by open , vertical rectangle , the pgk - neo cassette by an open , horizontal rectangle , while thin vertical line denote the boundary of the short arm and the 5 ' end of the long ( downstream ) arm .
a grey , horizontal rectangle delineate the segment of the wild - type allele that be replace by the pgk - neo cassette in the mutant allele .
figure 5
genotyping of pre-implantation embryo .
a nest pcr strategy be use to genotype embryo prior to implantation a describe in figure 4 .
capn2 + / - mouse be mat and the date of fertilization establish by the appearance of vaginal plug .
blastocyst ( e3.5 ) or 8 - cell embryo ( e2.5 ) be flush from the oviduct and then digest with proteinase k .
in separate reaction segment find exclusively in either the wild - type or mutant allele be co-amplified with an internal control sequence , locate in the short ( upstream ) arm of the targeting vector , which be find in both allele .
the final product be 429 bp for the wild - type allele , 389 bp for the mutant allele , and 213 bp for the internal control .
( a ) a representative example of the genotyping of blastocyst stage embryo .
embryo # 1 , 2 , 4 , 5 , and 6 be capn2 + / - whereas embryo # 3 and # 7 be capn2 + / + , denote by the absence of the 389 bp mutant signal .
( b ) an example of the genotyping of 8 - cell embryo be show .
embryo # 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , and 6 be capn2 + / - while embryo # 4 be capn2 - / - , mark by the absence of the 429 bp wild - type signal .
( m ) denote the molecular weight marker .
the genotyping result for weanlings , post-implantation , and pre-implantation embryo be show in table 2 .
curiously , the ratio of capn2 + / + to capn2 + / - animal from inbred heterozygous intercrosses be substantially less than the predict 1 : 2 mendelian ratio .
in a group of 199 animal derive from heterozygote breeding ( 33 litter ) , 23 capn2 + / + ( 11.6 % ) and 176 ( 88.4 % ) capn2 + / - animal be observe .
the ratio of capn2 + / + to capn2 + / - animal among male ( 14 % to 82 % ) or female ( 13 % to 90 % ) be essentially the same is it be for the combine population , and there be an average of six pup per litter , which be normal for this background strain .
a large than expect proportion capn2 + / - animal be also evident in both post-implantation and pre-implantation embryo ( table 2 ) .
interestingly , a similar over-representation of heterozygous animal be also report in one of the capn4 transgenic line , though the genotype skewing be not a extreme [ 32 ] .
cross between capn2 + / + and capn2 + / - animal also result in a great than expect proportion of capn2 + / - animal ( table 2 ) .
an even high degree of capn2 + / - over-representation be see when the mutant allele come the mother ( 73 % ) compare to when it come from the father ( 59 % ) .
in these cross the ratio of capn2 + / + to capn2 + / - animal among male or female compare well with the ratio in the combine population ; 77 % of male and 69 % of female be capn2 + / - when the mutant allele come from the mother , and 62 % of male and 55 % of female be capn2 + / - when the mutant allele come from the father .
attempt generation of capn2 - / - e cell
capn2 + / - e cell be subject to clonal selection in the presence of 2 mg / ml g418 in attempt to generate homozygous mutant cell by gene conversion .
this procedure have be extensively apply to target e cell and be readily achieve in the case of capn4 + / - e cell [ 31 ] .
in this case , however , no capn2 - / - e cell be isolate in screen of 126 drug - resistant clone .
the inability to isolate capn2 - / - e cell , in concert with the absence of capn2 - / - embryo beyond the 8 - cell stage , suggest that m - calpain activity might be essential for cell viability or the establishment of viable e cell clone .
discussion
although calpain activity be first identify four decade ago , a clear understanding of the substrate and function of the enzyme have remain elusive .
in large part , this have be due to the lack of inhibitor capable of specifically down - regulate the calpains without affect other protease .
in the past decade , the story have be far complicate by the discovery of a number of previously unknown isoforms which may be differently regulate and have different substrate specificity .
gene targeting in mouse have provide a powerful approach to examine the physiologic role of individual calpain isoforms .
this be first use to disrupt the capn4 gene , encode the small regulatory subunit common to both μ - and m - calpain .
two independent laboratory observe embryonic lethality in capn4 knockout mouse , albeit at different stage of development [ 31 , 32 ] .
these observation support the hypothesis that the small subunit be require for both μ - and m - calpain , and furthermore suggest four possibility regard their requirement for embryonic development : 1 ) both isoforms be require ; 2 ) μ - calpain be require ; 3 ) m - calpain be require , or 4 ) μ - and m - calpain be redundant , and one or the other isoform be require .
these option be narrow down by the subsequent observation that capn1 - / - mouse , which lack the μ - calpain catalytic subunit , be healthy and fertile , although platelet aggregation and clot retraction defect be observe [ 33 ] .
at that point , we be leave with the last two possibility that either m - calpain be specifically require during embryogenesis , or that either isoform alone be sufficient for sustain embryonic viability .
we report here that capn2 - / - mouse , which lack the m - calpain catalytic subunit , die at the preimplantation stage of development .
this observation allow u to now conclude that m - calpain be specifically require during embryogenesis .
since homozygous disruption of the capn4 gene be also expect to abolish m - calpain activity , this result be in agreement with the phenotype present by one of the two capn4 target line in which preimplantation lethality of null embryo be also observe [ 32 ] .
the survival of capn4 - / - embryo from the original target line report by arthur and colleague to mid-gestation be more difficult to reconcile [ 31 ] .
in retrospect , it seem likely that the latter line represent a hypomorphic state , rather than a true null .
the capn4 targeting strategy employ by arthur and colleague involve disrupt the c - terminus of the calpain small subunit by insertion of the pgk - neo cassette into the middle of exon 9 , which cause truncation of the protein [ 31 ] .
this strategy be base upon previous structure / function study show that excision of the c - terminal 25 amino acid residues of the small subunit abolish calpain activity when co-expressed with the m - calpain large subunit in e. coli [ 34 ] .
in contrast , the capn4 target strategy employ by zimmerman and colleague involve a much more extensive deletion of exon 4 through 8 [ 32 ] .
it now seem probable that the difference in the time of lethality of these two target capn4 line can be explain by different extent of disruption .
the zimmerman allele probably represent a true null genotype while the arthur allele be likely a hypomorphic mutation .
alternate targeting strategy have be show to yield different phenotype in gene disruption study .
for example , three different targeting strategy be independently use to disrupt the mixed lineage leukemia ( mll ) gene .
in all three study , homozygous null embryo perish during embryogenesis , but at different stage ( e0.5 , e10.5 , e14.5 ) [ 35 ] .
the variation in phenotype be attribute to the difference in degree of function of the truncate protein produce from the mutant allele .
a similar effect might be at work in the two capn4 transgenic line .
effort be make to detect transcript or calpain activity derive from the arthur capn4 allele .
this allele give rise to multiple mrna specie , detectable by rt - pcr , read through from the first half of exon 9 to at least two different cryptic splice site in the pgk promoter sequence [ 31 ] .
these transcript could give rise to defective calpain small subunit with 10 – 30 inappropriate c - terminal acid , which might be sufficient to support a low level of calpain activity .
however , expression of calpains with these modify small subunit do not give rise to any detectable calpain activity when express in e. coli , although their functionality in mammalian cell have yet to be determine ( j.s. elce , unpublished work ) it have also be suggest that calpain large subunit alone might provide some activity in eukaryotic cell , although the zimmerman et al. knockout appear to exclude that possibility , and no calpain activity be observe in our hand when calpain large subunit be express alone either in e. coli or in mammalian cell [ 36 ] .
the different timing of lethality in the capn4 knockout might also be a consequence of the different genetic background of the two transgenic line , which have be observe to influence the phenotype of transgenic mouse on a number of occasion [ 37 ] .
one of the endure question in calpain research have be whether the two ubiquitous isoforms , μ - and m - calpain , possess distinct in vivo role .
the two enzyme share 62 % sequence identity and be very similar in their structure and biochemistry .
notably , they cleave essentially the same set of substrate in vitro , suggest that they have the potential to carry out the same function in vivo .
on the other hand , since they require different amount of ca2 + for in vitro activation , it be possible that the two isoforms be differentially regulate inside cell .
it be now clear , from the gene targeting work do in mouse , that μ - and m - calpain have some distinct physiological role , at least during embryogenesis .
a note , whereas capn2 null murine embryo die prior to implantation , homozygous disruption of the μ - calpain large subunit gene , capn1 , do not affect the viability of mouse [ 33 ] .
the principal phenotype observe a a result of capn1 deficiency involve a disturbance in platelet function , possibly at the level of the tyrosine phosphorylation of certain protein involve in platelet activation .
both μ - and m - calpain activity be present in most mammalian cell , although the publish data , owe to weakness in the available methodology , do not provide reliable estimate of their relative amount .
platelet and erythrocyte contain abundant μ - calpain activity , while m - calpain activity be barely detectable .
compensation for μ - calpain deficiency by m - calpain be therefore less likely in platelet and erythrocyte than in other cell type .
a a result , it be not possible to determine whether the absence of marked phenotype in capn1 - / - animal be due to a compensatory affect by the remain m - calpain activity , or whether the function of μ - calpain be simply not essential .
in contrast , lethality in capn2 - / - embryo demonstrate that m - calpain activity be essential for embryonic development beyond the 8 - cell stage .
it follow that at least some function of μ - calpain and m - calpain be distinct .
the underlie cause of the preimplantation lethality in capn2 - / - embryo have not yet be clarify .
the two homozygous null embryo identify at the 8 - cell stage do not present any obvious morphological defect .
however , the fact that only two out of 90 successfully genotyped pre-implantation embryo prove to be capn2 - / - be in itself reveal .
preimplantation lethality result from gene knockout can typically be attribute to two general cause .
in some case , defect be incur in the embryonic differentiation program which can often be observe morphologically [ 38 ] .
null embryo of this type often survive beyond the morula stage , and a mendelian distribution of embryonic genotype be usually note .
in other case , however , the gene disruption be think to compromise fatally the viability of cell in the early embryo [ 3 , 39 - 43 ] .
in these instance , only a few null embryo be ever observe and homozygous mutant e cell could not be isolate .
the capn2 knockout fit into the latter category .
if it be true that m - calpain be essential for some aspect of cell viability , the survival of a few capn2 - / - embryo to the 8 - cell stage be most likely due to the persistence of some maternal m - calpain mrna and / or protein through 2 – 3 cell division .
the mechanistic reason for lethality in the absence of m - calpain be still unclear .
there have be several report of m - calpain involvement in cell proliferation in certain circumstance , include report of it involvement in chromosome segregation during mitosis [ 44 ] as well a during meiosis [ 45 ] .
defect in migration , report in capn4 - / - cell [ 9 ] , could contribute to fail embryonic development .
the association between calpain and cell viability have be note in capn4 - / - mefs and other cell line , although the report work frequently do not distinguish between μ - and m - calpain , and do not show that calpain be strictly essential [ 5 , 6 ] .
in both cho cell and capn4 - / - mefs , calpain be show to influence cell proliferation , but only at very low cell density [ 5 ] .
calpain have also be associate with progression through the g1 stage of the cell cycle [ 6 ] .
furthermore , some of the protein know to be involve in cell cycle progression , such a p53 , p107 , cyclin d1 , and p27kip1 be repute to be calpain substrate [ 3 ] .
sperm binding to the oocyte lead to increase cytoplasmic calcium which trigger the acrosome reaction [ 46 ] .
both μ - and m - calpain have recently be detect in rodent sperm [ 47 ] and oocyte [ 45 ] . m - calpain be implicate in the acrosome reaction [ 47 ] which correlate with a translocation of m - calpain to the cortical membrane in oocyte where it might participate in the release of cortical granule content require to prevent polyspermy [ 45 ] .
m - calpain also relocalized to the oocyte meiotic spindle after fertilization , be it could be involve in chromosome segregation [ 45 ] .
polyspermy or defective chromosome segregation would both have lethal effect on early embryonic development .
it should also be stress that capn4 - / - e and mef cell from the presumptive hypomorphic allele can be maintain in culture despite an apparent lack of calpain activity , a assess by casein zymography or by the appearance of characteristic spectrin breakdown product .
it be conceivable , a discuss earlier , that a trace amount of calpain activity , beneath level detectable by these method , be retain from this mutant capn4 allele , and it be sufficient for maintain the viability of the cell .
furthermore , calpain - independent mechanism for protect cell viability might exist in these cell line that be absent in early embryonic cell .
the repeat failure to achieve gene conversion of capn2 + / - to capn2 - / - e cell by selection of clone in high concentration of g418 suggest that the homozygous mutant state somehow compromise cell viability or clonal selection of e cell .
effort be under way to express the m - 80 k subunit from a capn2 cdna rescue transgene prior to gene conversion in order to preemptively rescue m - calpain activity before the remain endogenous wild - type allele be lose .
however , difficulty in achieve stable expression of the rescue transgene have thus far hamper these attempt .
one curiosity which arise during the genotyping of progeny from heterozygous interbreeding be the highly non-mendelian ratio of capn2 + / + ( 11.6 % ) to capn2 + / - ( 88.4 % ) of weanlings .
at present , there be no obvious explanation for this result .
cross between wild - type and heterozygous mouse also produce progeny with a great than expect proportion of heterozygous offspring .
interestingly , heterozygous cross involve the capn4 transgenic line generate by zimmerman and colleague yield progeny with a similar , if less extreme , skew in favor of the heterozygous genotype .
out of a total of 80 genotyped animal , 22.5 % be wild - type and 77.5 % be heterozygous , with no homozygous null progeny observe [ 32 ] .
these observation suggest a developmental advantage associate with reduce calpain expression .
perhaps future study will reveal a mechanistic basis for this .
conclusion
the work present here have clarify two important question regard the physiological role of the two ubiquitous calpain isoforms , μ - and m - calpain .
firstly , it be determine that m - calpain play an indispensable role in murine embryogenesis , possibly relate to pre-implantation development .
furthermore , this function can not be carry out by μ - calpain despite the apparent in vitro similarity of μ - and m - calpain , demonstrate that the two isoforms clearly have some distinct role in vivo .
the function of m - calpain during post-implantation embryogenesis and in adult mouse remain to be elucidate and will have to be address use a conditional gene targeting strategy .
method
cloning and sequencing of the mouse capn2 locus
the mouse capn2 gene encode the 700 amino acid of the m - calpain large subunit ( m - 80 k ) and consist of 21 exon extend over 50 - kb on chromosome 1 .
a cdna clone encode a portion of the mouse m - 80 k subunit be purchase ( dbest id , 807416 , image : 606689 , image consortium , llnl ) .
it be find to contain 2.8 - kb of sequence from position 247 of the coding sequence to the stop codon at position 2,101 , including the 3 ' - utr to the polya signal .
a fragment of this cdna be subcloned and use to screen a 129sv mouse genomic library in λ - dash ii .
overlap genomic clone be obtain cover 15,354 bp , extend from a bamhi site in intron 3 to a bamhi site in intron 15 .
these clone be sequence completely on both strand and the data be submit to genbank ( accession no. af497625 ) .
the submit sequence agree precisely with the public database , and also fill in several small gap correspond to short repetitive sequence which could only be firmly establish by repeat sequencing in non-standard condition .
construction of the capn2 targeting vector
a targeting construct be design to replace a 785 bp bamhi - hindiii fragment , contain exon 7 of the capn2 gene , with the pgk - neo cassette ( figure 1 ) .
exon 7 encode 24 amino acid in the active - site region , include asn286 , one of the catalytic triad residue .
the short ( upstream ) arm of the targeting construct be provide by a 2.7 - kb hindiii - bamhi fragment , contain exon 5 and 6 , which be insert into the ppnt vector upstream of the pgk - neo cassette [ 48 ] .
during cloning , the bamhi site at the 3 ' end of the short arm be abolish .
the loss of this bamhi site in the mutant allele , couple with the introduction of a new bamhi site at the 3 ' end of the pgk - neo cassette , provide a basis for distinguish the wild - type and mutant allele by southern blotting .
the long ( downstream ) arm of homology be provide by a 7 - kb hindiii - kpni fragment , extend from intron 7 to intron 12 , insert between the pgk - neo and thymidine kinase ( tk ) cassette .
figure 1
targeting strategy for disruption of the murine capn2 gene .
the murine capn2 gene , encode the m - 80 k subunit , be disrupt in e cell by homologous recombination .
the structure of the wild - type allele ( top ) , the targeting vector ( middle ) , and the mutant allele ( bottom ) be depict .
in the mutant allele , a pgk - neo cassette replace a 0.8 - kb genomic fragment contain exon 7 ( grey rectangle ) which encode the active site asparagine residue ( asn286 ) in the targeting vector , the pgk - neo cassette be flank by 2.7 - kb of capn2 homologous sequence in the upstream ( short ) arm and 7.9 - kb of homology in the downstream ( long ) arm .
a probe locate immediately outside of the short arm detect a 3.5 - kb bamhi fragment from the wild - type allele and a 5.3 - kb bamhi fragment from the mutant allele .
exon be depict a open vertical rectangle except for exon 7 which be represent by a solid vertical rectangle .
the probe use in most southern blot analysis be show a a solid , horizontal rectangle , while triangle mark the position of pcr primer also use for genotyping purpose .
e cell culture , transfection and selection of target clone
mouse r1 e cell [ 49 ] be maintain on gelatin - coat plate with feeder layer of mouse embryonic fibroblast at 37 °c under 5 % co2 in e cell medium ( dmem [ high glucose ] supplement with 15 % fetal bovine serum , 0.1 mm non-essential amino acid , 2 mm glutamine , 1 mm sodium pyruvate , 0.1 mm 2 - mercaptoethanol , 100 u / ml penicillin , 100 μg / ml streptomycin , 25 μg / ml amphotericin , and 1,000 u / ml of esgro [ chemicon ] ) .
fetal bovine serum from hyclone laboratory inc ( logan , utah ) be test for it ability to support e cell growth .
gelatin be from sigma - aldrich canada ( oakville , ontario ) .
unless otherwise specify , all other tissue culture reagent be from gibco - brl .
the targeting construct be linearize by noti digestion and electroporated into r1 e cell .
cell be plat without feeder layer on gelatin - coat plate and transform clone be select in the presence of 200 μg / ml g418 ( gibco - brl ) and 2 μm ganciclovir ( syntex , inc. ) for eight day .
drug - resistant clone be pick , expand on gelatin - coat plate , and genotyped by southern blotting and pcr analysis ( see below ) .
generation of target mouse
capn2 + / - e cell be aggregate overnight with 8 - cell embryo recover from cd1 mating , a previously describe [ 31 ] .
on the next day , blastocyst be transfer to pseudopregnant cd1 female .
chimeric animal be identifiable at birth by black eye pigmentation and subsequently by patch of agouti coat colour .
chimeric male be breed with cd1 female to identify those male capable of germline transmission .
these be then breed with 129svj female to establish the mutation in an inbred genetic background .
mouse protocol be approve by the queen 's university animal care committee accord to the guideline of the canadian council on animal care .
genotyping method
several southern blot and pcr strategy be exploit in order to determine the genotype of the capn2 locus .
southern blotting be carry out use the digoxigenin ( dig ) non-radioactive system ( roche ) .
in most case , membrane be blot with bamhi - digest genomic dna and hybridize with a dig - label 823 bp exon 4 - contain bamhi - hindiii fragment locate immediately upstream of the short arm of homology ( figure 1 ) .
a 681 bp psti - xbai fragment from the pgk - neo cassette be also use to probe southern blot in order to verify a single integration event in target clone .
genotyping be also carry out by pcr analysis of genomic dna .
the sequence of all oligonucleotide primer be list in table 1 .
a single - step pcr strategy be sufficient for genotyping e cell or biopsy from post-implantation embryo and weanlings ( figure 1 ) .
a 2,748 bp segment of the wild - type allele and a 2,711 bp segment of the mutant allele be amplify in separate reaction use a common ( intron 4 ) sense primer , locate outside the short arm of homology , and distinct antisense primer which hybridize to either wild - type ( exon 7 ) or mutant ( pgk - neo ) sequence ( table i ) .
the thermocycling parameter include a five minute initial denaturation step at 95 °c , 30 cycle of one minute denaturation at 95 °c , one minute anneal at 56 °c , and one minute extension at 72 °c , with a ten minute final extension step .
table 1
oligonucleotide primer use to genotype the capn2 locus
due to the limit amount of genetic material available in pre-implantation embryo , a nest pcr strategy be develop to yield reliable genotyping information ( figure 4 ) .
whole embryo be first digest in 20 μl of proteinase k buffer ( see below ) .
the lysate be then divide in two , with half ( 10 μl ) be use in the amplification of the wild - type allele and the remain 10 μl in the amplification of the mutant allele .
the first reaction in the nest pcr amplification of the wild - type allele be carry out in a final reaction volume of 50 μl , use an intron 6 sense primer and an antisense primer locate in intron 7 .
two μl of the first reaction be use a template in the second pcr amplification use another intron 6 sense primer and an antisense primer in exon 7 .
the nest amplification of the mutant allele be carry out similarly .
the first primer pair consist of the intron 6 sense primer and an antisense primer in the pgk - neo cassette .
the nest primer pair be comprise of the second intron 6 sense primer and an antisense primer also locate within the pgk - neo sequence .
it should be note that amplification of both sequence involve the same sense primer in both step of the nest pcr strategy .
in addition , the two set of reaction include a common internal control design to amplify a genomic region within the short arm of the targeting vector that be preserve in both the wild - type and mutant allele .
the first primer pair of the control pcr be make up of an intron 4 sense primer and an intron 5 antisense primer .
the second primer pair comprise an exon 5 sense primer and a nest intron 5 antisense primer .
the final product be 213 bp for the control pcr , 429 bp for the wild - type pcr , and 389 bp for the mutant pcr .
all reaction be carry out use identical pcr condition entail an initial five minute denaturation at 95 °c , 35 cycle of one minute denaturation at 95 °c , one minute anneal at 56 °c , and one minute extension at 72 °c , with a final extension step of ten minute .
isolation of pre-implantation embryo
time of fertilization be determine by observation of copulation plug , and noon of that day be define a e0.5 .
pre-implantation embryo be obtain by dissect the uterus out of pregnant female at e2.5 or e3.5 and flush the oviduct with e cell medium .
isolate embryo be then digest for five hour at 55 °c in 20 μl of lysis buffer ( 50 mm tris - hcl , 0.5 % triton x - 100 , 200 μl / ml proteinase k , ph 8.0 ) , follow by ten minute at 95 °c to inactivate the proteinase k .
lysates be then use for pcr genotyping .
list of abbreviation
egf : epidermal growth factor
e : embryonic stem
mef : mouse embryonic fibroblast
kda : kilodalton
kb : kilobase
bp : base pair
author ' contribution
dec generate the capn2 targeting construct .
pd and pag carry out the e electroporation and selection of target clone .
kw perform aggregation chimera to establish germline chimeric animal .
tdv establish and maintain the knockout mouse colony and perform genotyping analysis .
pd , jsca , jse , dec and pag conceive the study and help draft the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
figure 3
genotyping of weanlings from heterozygote intercrosses .
a representative example of the southern blot genotyping of progeny from a capn2 + / - intercross be show .
genomic dna be extract from mouse tail biopsy take from three - week old weanlings and genotyped by southern blotting a describe in figure 1 .
a 3.5 - kb bamhi fragment from the wild - type allele be detect in all animal while a 5.3 - kb bamhi fragment from the mutant allele be observe in a subset of progeny .
no capn2 - / - offspring be detect among weanlings or post-implantation embryo , nor be embryo resorption site observe .
these result indicate that capn2 - / - embryo perish at a pre-implantation stage .
acknowledgement
we would like to thank andras nagy for provide the r1 e cell line , janet rossant for the 129svj mouse genomic dna library , and ralph zirngibl for modification of the ppnt vector .
initial cloning of capn2 and vector construction be undertake by dec a a sabbatical visitor at queen 's university with support from the national science foundation ( mcb9723636 ) and the university of maine .
this work be support by grant from the canadian institute of health research and the heart and stroke foundation of canada .
p.d. be an ontario graduate scholar .
dorsoventral patterning of the mouse coat by tbx15
abstract
many member of the animal kingdom display coat or skin color difference along their dorsoventral axis .
to determine the mechanism that control regional difference in pigmentation , we have study how a classical mouse mutation , droopy ear ( deh ) , affect dorsoventral skin characteristic , especially those under control of the agouti gene .
mouse carry the agouti allele black - and - tan ( at ) normally have a sharp boundary between dorsal black hair and yellow ventral hair ; the deh mutation raise the pigmentation boundary , produce an apparent dorsal - to - ventral transformation .
we identify a 216 kb deletion in deh that remove all but the first exon of the tbx15 gene , whose embryonic expression in develop mesenchyme correlate with pigmentary and skeletal malformation observe in deh / deh animal .
construction of a target allele of tbx15 confirm that the deh phenotype be cause by tbx15 loss of function .
early embryonic expression of tbx15 in dorsal mesenchyme be complementary to agouti expression in ventral mesenchyme ; in the absence of tbx15 , expression of agouti in both embryo and postnatal animal be displace dorsally .
transplantation experiment demonstrate that positional identity of the skin with regard to dorsoventral pigmentation difference be acquire by e12.5 , which be shortly after early embryonic expression of tbx15 .
fate - map study show that the dorsoventral pigmentation boundary be not in register with a previously identify dermal cell lineage boundary , but rather with the limb dorsoventral boundary .
embryonic expression of tbx15 in dorsolateral mesenchyme provide an instructional cue require to establish the future positional identity of dorsal dermis .
these finding represent a novel role for t - box gene action in embryonic development , identify a previously unappreciated aspect of dorsoventral patterning that be widely represent in furred mammal , and provide insight into the mechanism that underlie region - specific difference in body morphology .
introduction
a fundamental question in developmental biology be how adjacent region of the vertebrate body acquire difference in their appearance or morphology .
mechanism that establish the general body plan make use of a relatively small number of signaling pathway share among all animal ( review in pires - dasilva and sommer 2003 ) , but the extent to which these pathway control fine difference between body region be not clear .
among vertebrate , difference in the shape or number of skeletal element , altered morphology of epidermal appendage , and variation in pigment distribution combine to produce the majority of what distinguish one animal from another .
among these , pigment pattern be an excellent system to investigate how morphological difference arise , both for different region of the body within a specie and for different animal from closely related specie .
in natural environment , color variation be a nearly universal mechanism for recognition , camouflage , or both ; consequently , a large number of pigment pattern have be characterize from an evolutionary and ecological perspective ( boughman 2001 ; jiggins et al. 2001 ) .
in the laboratory , color variation have be the subject of vertebrate genetics for more than a century ( searle 1968 ; silver 1979 ) , and many pigmentary component have be identify whose action be understand in a cellular or organ - base context ( review in bennett and lamoreux 2003 ) .
several mechanism may contribute to regional difference in vertebrate pigmentation .
in the embryo , alteration in the determination or migration of melanoblast from the neural crest affect the number or distribution of pigment cell in the skin ( review in reedy et al. 1998 ) .
within hair follicle , paracrine signal control the type of pigment make in specific region of the body or at specific time during the hair cycle ( review in furumura et al. 1996 ; barsh et al. 2000 ) .
finally , movement of pigment granule within melanocyte or from melanocyte to keratinocytes make use of cellular machinery that be share by a variety of cell type , but that can vary in different region of the body ( review in mark and seabra 2001 ) .
however , for all of these mechanism — white spotting , pigment - type switch , and melanosome biogenesis — more be know about the identity of the molecular component than their spatial and temporal control .
one of the most obvious aspect of regional color variation in vertebrate be a dark dorsal surface juxtapose to a light ventral surface , apparent in the color of skin , scale , feather , or hair , in which the boundary between dorsal and ventral compartment be often sharp and lie in register with the limb .
in rodent and probably other mammal , this dorsoventral difference in hair color be bring about by difference in pigment type a determine by allelic variation of the agouti gene ( bultman et al. 1992 ; miller et al. 1993 ) .
secrete by dermal papilla cell within each hair follicle ( millar et al. 1995 ) , agouti protein cause melanocyte in that follicle to switch from the production of brown / black eumelanin to red / yellow pheomelanin .
agouti protein have a short radius of action ( silver and russel 1955 ) and can be switch on and off during a single hair cycle ( bultman et al. 1992 , 1994 ; miller et al. 1993 ; vrieling et al. 1994 ) ; thus , it regulate expression be think to be responsible for the cream - color or yellow ventral surface of mouse carry the black - and - tan ( at ) allele and for the yellow marking around the foot , ear , or head , i.e. , tan point or head spot , of certain dog breed .
in laboratory mouse , previous study from our group and others identify two predominant agouti mrna isoforms that differ by virtue of their transcriptional initiation site and 5 ′ untranslated exon .
a “ hair cycle - specific ” transcript be express in both dorsal and ventral skin for 2 – 3 day during early hair growth , while a “ ventral - specific ” transcript be express throughout the entire period of active hair growth , but only in ventral skin ( bultman et al. 1994 ; vrieling et al. 1994 ) .
animal carry the at allele express only the ventral - specific agouti transcript ( bultman et al. 1994 ; vrieling et al. 1994 ) and have black dorsal hair and cream - color to yellow ventral hair , with a sharp boundary at the level of the limb – body wall articulation and in the middle of the whisker pad .
ventral - specific agouti isoforms be also express in develop skin from embryonic day 10.5 ( e10.5 ) and beyond and may play a role in pigment cell differentiation ( millar et al. 1995 ) .
thus , regulatory element for ventral - specific agouti isoforms be responsive to dorsoventral positional cue establish in the embryo and whose effect persist after birth .
the boundary between dorsal and ventral color compartment in at / at mouse bear superficial resemblance to dorsoventral boundary apparent for many other mammal , but morphogenetic difference between dorsal and ventral skin seem likely to include more element than the type of pigment make by hair follicle melanocyte .
in particular , dermis of the flank have at least two distinct origin : dermatomal derivative of somite and loose mesenchyme derive from the lateral plate mesoderm ( mauger 1972 ; christ et al. 1983 ; olivera - martinez et al. 2000 ; nowicki et al. 2003 ) ; these lineage be establish early in development and could , in principle , set up compartment whose identity contribute to dorsoventral difference in adult skin .
to well understand the mechanism that give rise to difference between dorsal and ventral skin and to the boundary between them , we have determine how several morphologic characteristic vary along the dorsoventral axis of the mouse and how these characteristic correspond to ventral - specific agouti expression and the lineage boundary that distinguish somite from lateral plate derivative .
our result indicate that the apparent uniformity of the dorsoventral boundary represent the sum of independent mechanism that affect melanocyte density and / or differentiation , pigment - type synthesis , and hair length ; surprisingly , none of these coincide with the somite – lateral plate lineage boundary .
we also make use of a classical mouse mutation , droopy ear ( curry 1959 ) , that produce a dorsal - to - ventral transformation of flank coat color by allow expansion of the ventral - specific agouti transcript .
by positional cloning and gene targeting , we identify an allele of droopy ear , deh , a a loss of function for tbx15 , which encode a t - box transcription factor express in a dynamic and spatially restricted manner in the develop skin and musculoskeletal system .
embryonic expression and transplantation study suggest that tbx15 be require to establish certain characteristic of dorsal patterning in mesenchymal cell of the develop flank .
these result identify a previously unappreciated aspect of dorsoventral patterning that be widely represent in furred mammal and provide insight into the mechanism that underlie region - specific difference in body morphology .
result
morphological component of dorsoventral skin difference
besides the obvious change in hair color that frequently distinguish dorsal from ventral skin , casual observation suggest there be additional difference in hair length , distribution of hair type , and skin thickness .
furthermore , dorsoventral difference in pigmentation can represent difference in the number and / or differentiate state of pigment cell , as well a the type of pigment synthesize in response to expression of agouti .
in particular , ventral hair of at / at animal can vary from cream - color to reddish - yellow depend on age , strain background , and position along the dorsoventral axis .
to evaluate the relationship among these component , we compare their feature among mouse of different agouti genotype .
semiquantitative measurement of hair length plot a a function of dorsoventral position reveal that the apparent sharp boundary between dorsal and ventral pigment compartment in at / at mouse coincide with a more gradual change in both hair color and hair length ( figure 1a – 1d ) .
within the region of transition from dorsum to ventrum ( figure 1b ) , flank hair from at / at mouse become progressively short and exhibit increase amount of pheomelanin deposition progress from the tip to the base of the hair .
however , the region of transition for hair length be considerably broad than that for pigmentation and independent of agouti genotype .
although hair - cycle timing vary along the rostrocaudal axis , measurement of absolute hair length for mouse match for age and rostrocaudal level be remarkably similar ( figure 1d ) .
furthermore , measurement of relative hair length for animal of different age , size , and agouti genotype also be very similar when normalize to body circumference ( figure 1c ) .
take together , these observation indicate that variation of hair length along the dorsoventral axis be stereotype and maintain through multiple hair cycle , with a transition in hair length that be gradual and encompass the pigment - type transition in at / at mouse .
dorsal and ventral skin develop at different rate .
transverse section of skin at postnatal day 4.5 ( p4.5 ) exhibit dorsal hair follicle that be noticeably more developed than ventral hair follicle , along with a gradual dorsoventral decrease in dermal thickness ( figure 1f ) .
however , difference in skin thickness disappear by 3 – 4 wk of age ( forsthoefel et al. 1966 ) , and , overall , the proportion of different hair type be also similar in dorsum and ventra of adult mouse .
in age - match inbred mouse , we observe a small decrease in the ratio of undercoat hair ( zigzag ) to overcoat hair ( auchenes , awl , and guard hair ) in dorsum compare to ventrum ( figure 1e ) , but there be no consistent difference in hair - type distribution for outbred mouse ( data not show ) .
difference between dorsal and ventral pigmentation of at / at mouse be usually attribute to pigment - type difference cause by ventral - specific expression of agouti , but animal homozygous for a null allele of agouti , extreme nonagouti ( ae ) , have ventral hair that contain less melanin than dorsal hair , give a slightly pale appearance to the ventral coat ( figure 1g ) .
use dopa staining a an indicator of tyrosinase activity , we observe a gradual dorsoventral transition in isolate dermis preparation from p4.5 ae / ae mouse ( figure 1g ) .
by contrast , skin from at / at mouse reveal an abrupt dorsoventral transition of dopa staining , which probably reflect the additive effect of reduce melanin content ( a in ae / ae mouse ) and downregulation of tyrosinase activity induce by agouti .
melanin content of individual hair be likely to be influence both by the number of pigment cell and their follicular environment .
regardless , dorsoventral difference in hair pigment content of ae / ae mouse persist throughout multiple hair cycle into adulthood , similar to hair length ( but unlike skin thickness ) .
thus , at least three characteristic distinguish dorsal from ventral skin : difference in pigment - type synthesis ( depend on agouti genotype ) , difference in hair length , and difference in melanin content .
ventralization of skin morphology by the droopy ear mutation
name after it effect on craniofacial morphology , droopy ear be a recessive mutation on mouse chromosome 3 ; the original allele describe more than 40 year ago by curry ( 1959 ) be extinct , but a spontaneous remutation that occur in harwell , deh , be available through the jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , maine , united state ) .
external craniofacial malformation be the most obvious characteristic of deh / deh animal , include widely space eye , small palpebral fissure , a broad nasal area , and a shortened skull hold in an elevated position , which presumably cause or contribute to the abnormal position of the ear .
we become interested in droopy ear because the original allele be describe to affect pigment pattern in a way that suggest a possible dorsal to ventral transformation : “ on a genetic background ( at and aw ) which cause the belly hair to be light than the back hair , the belly hair come up far round the side of the body and face ” ( curry 1959 ) .
an abnormal dorsoventral pigment pattern be readily apparent in at / at ; deh / deh mouse , but comparison to nonmutant animal be more accurately describe in term of ventral , lateral , and dorsal region ( figure 1g and 2a ) .
the ventral region have short hair with a gray base and cream - color tip whose boundary coincide with the limb – body wall junction ; both the appearance of this region and position of the boundary be approximately similar in at / at compare to at / at ; deh / deh mouse .
the lateral region contain yellow hair of progressively increase length ; in at / at mouse , the lateral region appear a a thin yellow stripe along the flank , but in at / at ; deh / deh mouse , the lateral region be considerably expanded with a diffuse boundary along the dorsal flank , and a dorsal eumelanic region whose size be correspondingly reduce ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
total body size be small in mutant compare to nonmutant animal , but the proportion of body circumference occupy by the lateral region in mutant animal be increase about 2 - fold , from 11.9 % to 22.2 % ( figure 2c ) .
the proportion of the ventral cream - color region be also expand a small amount , 47.9 % in mutant compare to 37.8 % in nonmutant animal , but expansion of the lateral region , which occur at all level of the body , include the limb and the cranium ( but not the whisker pad ) , be the major feature responsible for the ventralized appearance cause by deh .
to investigate whether deh affect other dorsoventral skin characteristic besides pigment - type switch , we examine it effect on hair length and pigmentation in an ae / ae background .
overall , deh cause a small but consistent reduction in hair length in both dorsum and ventrum ; when mutant and nonmutant animal be normalize for body circumference , reduced hair length be most apparent in the lateral region ( figure 2e ) .
adult ae / ae ; deh / deh animal exhibit body - size reduction and skeletal abnormality , but display no coat - color phenotype ( data not show ) .
however , ae / ae and ae / ae ; deh / deh neonate be clearly distinguishable in the first few day after birth , when a dorsoventral gradient of melanogenic activity be apparent under the skin ( figure 2d ) .
at this stage , melanoblast migration from the neural crest be mostly complete , but there be a dorsoventral gradient in melanocyte differentiation and pigment synthesis .
the skin of ae / ae neonate appear uniformly dark over the entire dorsum , but in ae / ae ; deh / deh neonate , the area of dark skin be more restricted , particularly above the limb , and resemble the pattern of dorsal eumelanin in at / at ; deh / deh adult animal .
take together , these observation suggest that deh interfere with the establishment of dorsoventral patterning during skin development by cause dorsal expansion of a lateral region that be normally 3 – 5 mm in width .
this same region may serve a a boundary between dorsal and ventral skin by inhibit melanocyte differentiation , by promote pheomelanin synthesis , and by support a progressive increase in hair growth from ventrum to dorsum .
a describe below , the gene defective in deh , tbx15 , be normally express in the dorsal region and therefore be likely to play a role in establish the size and dorsal extent of the lateral region .
positional cloning of deh
a a visible marker , early linkage study with the original droopy ear allele or the deh allele identify a map position in the middle of chromosome 3 , distal to matted and proximal to varitint - waddler ( carter and falconer 1951 ; curry 1959 ; lane and eicher 1979 ; holmes et al. 1981 ) .
we use an f2 intercross with cast / ei mouse to localize deh to a 0.1 cm interval between d3mit213 and 16.mmhap32flf1 , which be refine by development of a bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) contig and additional marker to a 1.4 mb region that contain eight gene , include tbx15 ( figure 3a ) .
we consider tbx15 a an excellent candidate for the skeletal abnormality cause by deh , base on study by agulnik et al. ( 1998 ) , who describe it embryonic expression in the craniofacial region and develop limb .
use sequence information from agulnik et al. ( 1998 ) and the partially complete mouse genome sequence , we find that portion of several tbx15 exon could not be amplify from deh / deh genomic dna .
the same gene be initially refer to a tbx8 ( wattler et al. 1998 ) and then later rename tbx14 , but be currently refer to in several vertebrate genome a tbx15 ( agulnik et al. 1998 ; begemann et al. 2002 ) .
by compare the sequence of a 1.3 kb junction fragment amplify from deh / deh genomic dna to publicly available mouse genome sequence , we identify a 216 kb deletion that extend from tbx15 intron 1 to 148 kb downstream of the polyadenylation sequence in a region annotate a a mannose - 6 - phosphate receptor pseudogene , m6pr - p ( figure 3b and 3c ) .
( ludwig et al. 1992 ) .
by northern blot analysis , we identify a fusion transcript produce from the deh chromosome ( data not show ) .
however , the deletion remove 534 of the 602 amino acid encode by tbx15 ( include the t - box dna - bind domain ) , deh / + animal be grossly normal , and the phenotype of deh / deh animal be identical to that describe for the original allele .
in addition , other than m6pr - p , no other gene or transcript have be annotate to the 216 kb deletion .
while the positional cloning work be underway , one of u ( a. rus ) generate an independent mutation of tbx15 by gene targeting in embryonic stem cell .
the target allele , tbx15lacz , carry an ire - lacz - neo cdna cassette that disrupt the open reading frame at codon 154 early in the t - box domain ( figure 3d ) .
animal heterozygous for the target allele be completely normal with regard to size , skeletal morphology , and hair - color distribution , but tbx15lacz / tbx15lacz homozygote be note to exhibit reduce body size and an abnormal craniofacial appearance identical to that cause by deh .
we generate tbx15lacz / deh compound heterozygote ; on an aw / at background , these animal exhibit the same abnormal restriction of dorsal pigmentation at p3.5 and expand yellow flank area a describe above for deh / deh animal ( see figure 2 ) .
these observation demonstrate that the pigmentary and craniofacial characteristic of deh be cause by loss of function for tbx15 .
expression of tbx15 and agouti
previous study by agulnik et al. ( 1998 ) use whole - mount in situ hybridization describe expression of tbx15 a first detectable at e9.5 in the limb bud , progress to the branchial arch , flank , and craniofacial region through e12.5 .
to investigate this pattern in more detail , we hybridize a tbx15 mrna probe to a series of transverse section at e12.5 and observe expression in multiple mesenchymal tissue of the head , trunk , and develop limb ( figure 4a ) , much of which be consistent with the skull , cervical vertebra , and limb malformation report for mouse carry the original droopy ear allele .
we be particularly interested in determine the exact nature of the embryonic flank expression relative to the ventralized phenotype of adult deh / deh mouse .
transverse abdominal section from different time during development reveal a dorsolateral band of expression in the superficial mesenchyme at e11.5 that broaden both dorsally and ventrally over the next several day ( figure 4b ) .
by e13.5 , the develop dermis have become separated from the loose mesenchyme by a subcutaneous muscle layer ; tbx15 be express in all of these layer as well a the underlie abdominal muscle .
in p3.5 skin , tbx15 be express in both dorsal and ventral skin , most strongly in the condense upper dermis and develop dermal sheath of hair follicle ; faint expression can also be detect in rare dermal papilla cell ( figure 4b ) .
although the effect of agouti on pigment - type switch occur during postnatal hair growth , the ventral - specific isoform of agouti be express in develop skin begin at e11.5 .
we compare adjacent section hybridize with probe for tbx15 and agouti and observe complementary pattern at e12.5 , with expression of agouti in ventral skin and expression of tbx15 in dorsal skin ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
the junction between expression domain be indistinct , and by e14.5 , tbx15 expression extend ventrally and overlap extensively with agouti expression ( figure 5c and 5d ) .
we also examine the effect of deh on expression of agouti and find no difference between mutant and nonmutant at e12.5 or e13.5 ( data not show ) .
however , at e14.5 , the normal ventral - to - dorsal gradient of agouti expression appear to extend more dorsally in deh / deh embryo ( figure 6a ) .
in p4.5 skin , expression of agouti be also extend dorsally in deh / deh animal and be most apparent in the midflank region within the upper dermis and dermal papilla cell ( figure 6b ) .
thus , while the pigmentation phenotype of deh / deh mouse can be explain , not surprisingly , by dorsal extension of agouti expression after birth , pattern expression of tbx15 and agouti be apparent some 10 day earlier , between e12.5 and e13.5 , and the effect of tbx15 deficiency on expression of agouti can be detect by e14.5 .
relationship of embryonic tbx15 expression to dorsal and ventral pigmentation domain
the observation describe above be consistent with a model in which transient expression of tbx15 in the embryonic dorsal flank be require to establish positional identity of the future dermis , at least with respect to pigment - type synthesis cause by the ventral - specific agouti isoform .
to far investigate this hypothesis , we carry out transplantation experiment in which piece of embryonic skin be isolate from different dorsoventral position .
we evaluate the embryonic skin fragment for their potential to give rise to different hair color and for their expression of tbx15 and agouti .
previous study by silver and colleague ( poole and silver 1976 ) show that dorsal and ventral skin isolate from at / at embryo give rise to black and yellow hair , respectively , when transplant into testis and allow to develop for several week .
furthermore , dermal – epidermal recombination experiment carry out at e14.5 demonstrate that positional identity be carry by the embryonic dermis .
in a variation on this experiment , we divide embryonic skin from at / a embryo into dorsal , flank , and ventral piece and analyze the different piece for their ability to give rise to black or yellow hair after testis transplantation , and , in parallel , for gene expression use in situ hybridization .
for the purpose of a reproducible morphologic boundary , we divide flank from ventral skin base on a change in skin thickness and divide dorsal from flank skin at the level of an ectodermal notch that lie at the same level a the ventral extent of the myotome ( figure 7 ) ( huang and christ 2000 ; olivera - martinez et al. 2000 ; sudo et al. 2001 ; burke and nowicki 2003 ; nowicki et al. 2003 ) .
we find that e12.5 be the early time at which embryonic ventral skin be able to produce hair when transplant to the testis .
of the graft that produce hair , ventral skin give rise to yellow hair ( n = 3 ) , and dorsal skin give rise to black hair ( n = 4 ) .
transplantation of flank skin give rise to a patch of yellow hair juxtapose against a patch of black hair in 85 % of the successful graft ( n = 13 ) ; the remain two flank graft produce solely black or yellow hair .
in no case do we observe intermingle of black and yellow hair .
a predict from the experiment use tissue section ( see figure 5 and 6 ) , dorsal piece express tbx15 but not agouti , while flank piece express both gene ( see figure 7 ) .
thus , dorsoventral identity for adult pigmentation be establish by the time when pattern expression become apparent for tbx15 and agouti ( e11.5 – e12.5 ) ; furthermore , positional identity be maintain throughout late stage of skin development , even though expression of tbx15 broaden to include ventral as well a dorsal skin .
relationship of the dorsoventral pigment boundary to lineage compartment and the lateral somitic frontier
the ectodermal notch that we use to mark the boundary between embryonic dorsum and embryonic flank be a characteristic feature in vertebrate embryo .
in cell lineage study carry out in the chick system , the notch serve a a landmark for the boundary between dermis derive from somitic mesoderm and dermis derive from lateral plate mesoderm and have be term the “ lateral somitic frontier ” ( olivera - martinez et al. 2000 ; sudo et al. 2001 ; burke and nowicki 2003 ; nowicki et al. 2003 ) .
although fate - map study have not be carry out in mammalian embryo , somite - and lateral plate - derive mesoderm could give rise to precursor for dermis dorsal and ventral to the limb – body wall junction , respectively .
however , this notion conflict with our observation that the future pigmentation boundary lie ventral to the ectodermal notch ( see figure 7 ) .
to examine directly the relationship between the pigmentation boundary and dermis derive from lateral plate mesoderm , we make use of a cre transgene drive by the hoxb6 promoter that be develop by kuehn and colleague ( lowe et al. 2000 ) .
a describe by lowe et al. ( 2000 ) , midgestation embryo carry both the hoxb6 - cre transgene and the r26r lacz reporter gene ( soriano 1999 ) exhibit x - gal staining in lateral plate mesoderm but not somite - derive mesoderm of the trunk .
in whole - mount skin preparation from p1.5 or p4.5 neonatal animal , we observe a ventral band of dark x - gal staining correspond to lateral plate - derive dermis , which represent 63 % of the total circumference ( figure 8a ) .
however , in parallel preparation from at / at mouse , the ventral pheomelanin domain represent 47 % of the total skin circumference ; therefore , the proportion of total skin circumference occupy by dorsal eumelanin and somite - derive dermis be 53 % and 37 % , respectively ( figure 8b ) .
these result indicate that the pigmentation boundary be clearly distinct from , and more ventral to , the boundary between lateral plate - and somite - derive dermis .
because the pigmentation boundary lie in register with the limb – body wall junction ( see figure 2 ) , we wonder whether mechanism use for dorsoventral limb patterning might be related to those use to establish the pigmentation boundary .
in the develop limb , engrailed1 ( en1 ) , wnt7a , and lmx1b be part of a network whose restricted domain of expression help to establish dorsoventral identity ( review in niswander 2003 ) .
en1 be transiently express in the develop flank ; at e11.5 , transverse abdominal section reveal domain in the neural tube , somite - derive mesenchyme , and the ventral body wall ( figure 8c ) .
an adjacent section hybridize with tbx15 reveal a complementary pattern in the flank , which provide additional evidence for developmental mechanism that establish a pigmentation boundary entirely within lateral plate mesoderm and independent of lineage restriction impose by the lateral somitic frontier .
discussion
several mutation and gene have be identify that affect the pattern of hair follicle development , but tbx15 be the only gene of which we be aware that affect the pattern of hair pigmentation in different body region .
ventral area that normally produce yellow hair in the trunk , limb , and craniofacial region be expand in deh / deh mouse and , in the trunk at least , represent inappropriate dorsal expression of an agouti mrna isoform that be normally restrict to ventral skin .
the deh allele be cause by a large deletion that remove most of the tbx15 coding sequence , but the pleiotropic phenotype be cause by a simple loss of function for tbx15 rather than a dominant - negative or contiguous gene effect .
in particular , there be no heterozygous phenotype , no other gene lie within or close to the deletion breakpoints , and the expression pattern of tbx15 be consistent with the spectrum of phenotypic abnormality in both the original de allele and the deh allele .
finally , a tbx15 target allele have the same phenotype a deh .
our result suggest that pattern expression of tbx15 provide an instructional cue require to establish the future identity of dorsal dermis with regard to pigmentary and hair length patterning .
the ventral edge of tbx15 expression in the develop flank do not correspond to a know lineage compartment , but , like limb development , occur within lateral plate mesoderm .
these finding represent a novel role for t - box gene action in embryonic development and provide evidence for a previously unappreciated complexity to acquisition of dorsoventral positional identity in mammalian skin .
distinct morphologic region represent the sum of different gradient
the visual boundary between dorsal and ventral skin in at / at mouse be reminiscent of other system in which adjacent compartment enforce a binary choice between alternative pattern of gene expression and cell fate ( review in dahmann and basler 1999 ) .
however , agouti mrna in both embryonic and postnatal skin be distribute along a gradient whose dorsal boundary be indistinct and overlap with two additional gradient recognize by their effect on hair length and histochemical staining for melanocyte .
the three gradient be close but not congruent , and it be their proximity that give rise to the superficial distinction between dorsal and ventral skin of at / at mouse .
indeed , slight difference between the region of transition for pigment - type switching and pigment content give rise to a subtle yellow stripe along the flank ( see figure 1 , 2 , and 9a ) .
level of agouti mrna remain high throughout the entire ventrum , but hair pigment content be reduce , give rise to a cream - color region in the ventrum that , depend on age and genetic background , may appear more or less distinct from the yellow flank stripe .
loss of tbx15 affect dorsoventral transition of hair length , pigment content , and expression of the ventral - specific agouti isoform ; however , the former two effect be subtle and contribute little , if at all , to the abnormal pigmentation of adult deh / deh mouse .
thus , despite the abnormal pattern of dark skin in neonatal deh / deh mouse ( e.g. , figure 2d ) , the most obvious feature in adult be dorsal displacement of the “ boundary ” between black and yellow hair ( figure 9a ) .
genetics of tbx15
name for the presence of a dna - bind domain first identify in the mouse brachyury gene ( haploinsufficiency cause a short tail ) , t box – contain gene have be identify a developmental regulator in a wide spectrum of tissue and multicellular organism ( review in papaioannou 2001 ) .
the tbx15 subfamily , which also include tbx18 and tbx22 , be likely to have arise during early chordate evolution since there be a single gene in amphioxus but no obvious homolog in the fly genome ( ruvinsky et al. 2000 ) .
consistent with this relationship , the three gene be express in partially overlap pattern that include anterior somite ( tbx18 and tbx22 ) , limb mesenchyme ( tbx15 and tbx18 ) , and craniofacial mesenchyme ( all three gene , tbx15 more broadly than tbx18 or tbx22 ) ( agulnik et al. 1998 ; kraus et al. 2001 ; braybrook et al. 2002 ; bush et al. 2002 ; herr et al. 2003 ) .
these observation suggest that an ancestral gene for tbx15 , tbx18 , and tbx22 may have be important for craniofacial development in cephalochordate , with acquisition of additional expression pattern and developmental function in the limb and the trunk during early vertebrate evolution .
expression of tbx18 and tbx22 have not be report in embryonic flank mesenchyme , which suggest that tbx15 be the only family member involve in establish the dorsoventral identity of the trunk .
however , it would not be surprising to find some degree of functional redundancy in animal mutate for two or three of the subfamily member in other body region , particularly the limb and the head .
for example , mutation in tbx22 cause the human syndrome x - link cleft palate and ankyloglossia ( braybrook et al. 2001 ) .
despite high level of tbx22 expression in periocular embryonic mesenchyme ( braybrook et al. 2002 ; bush et al. 2002 ; herr et al. 2003 ) , the condition do not affect the eye , perhaps because residual activity be provide by tbx15 in the same region .
in an initial description of the expression and map location of mouse tbx15 , agulnik et al. ( 1998 ) suggest human tbx15 that lie on chromosome 1p11.1 a a candidate for acromegaloid facial appearance ( afa ) syndrome , for which there be a weak positive lod score to chromosome 1p ( hughes et al. 1985 ) .
originally describe a a rare autosomal - dominant syndrome with progressive facial coarsening , overgrowth of the intraoral mucosa , and large , doughy hand , more recent case report describe macrosomia , macrocephaly , or both and generalize hypertrichosis with progressive coarsening ( dallapiccola et al. 1992 ; irvine et al. 1996 ; da silva et al. 1998 ; zelante et al. 2000 ) .
the deh phenotype exhibit little overlap with these feature ; instead , we suggest a more likely candidate for mutation of human tbx15 would be frontofacionasal syndrome , an unmapped autosomal recessive condition characterize by brachycephaly , blepharophimosis , and midface hypoplasia ( reardon et al. 1994 ) .
two of u ( s. kuijper and f. meijlink ) become interested in the deh mutation because of it effect on skeletal development ( curry 1959 ) and the possibility that the aristaless - relate gene alx3 might be allelic with droopy ear ( ten berge et al. 1998 ) .
in spite of similarity between skeletal phenotype of deh and alx3 or alx4 mutant , subsequent experiment ( unpublished data ) exclude allelism of alx3 and deh , and a full description of the tbx15 skeletal phenotype will be publish elsewhere .
developmental mechanism of tbx15 expression and action in the skin
our attention to the role of tbx15 in pigment patterning be motivate by the effect of agouti in postnatal animal .
however , agouti be also express in the embryo , where it provide a convenient marker of ventral dermis identity .
because an expand domain of embryonic agouti expression in deh / deh animal be detectable by e14.5 , the effect of tbx15 on dorsoventral patterning must occur prior to this time .
among other t - box gene whose developmental action be at least partially understand , two general theme have emerge , one focus on the ability to specify alternative fate for an undifferentiated group of precursor cell and another focus on the ability to support proliferative expansion of a cell population whose fate be already determine ( review in tada and smith 2001 ) .
either mechanism may apply to the apparent dorsal - to - ventral transformation in deh / deh mouse .
for example , while the expand domain of agouti expression in postnatal deh / deh animal can be trace to event that occur between e11.5 and e13.5 , the underlying cause may be that embryonic cell in dorsolateral mesenchyme acquire a ventral rather than dorsal identity or that those cell fail to proliferate normally , follow by compensatory expansion of ventral cell .
cell lineage study should provide a definitive answer , but we favor the latter hypothesis , because measurement of dorsoventral region accord to hair color in deh / deh mouse reveal a small increase of the cream - colored ventral region in addition to the approximate doubling of the yellow flank region ( see figure 2 ) .
in embryonic mesenchyme , expression of tbx15 and agouti be complementary , and it be possible that tbx15 act directly to inhibit agouti transcription in dorsolateral mesenchyme .
however , the ability of tbx15 to suppress expression of the ventral - specific agouti isoform in postnatal mouse be likely to be indirect , since postnatal expression of tbx15 occur broadly along the dorsoventral axis and overlap extensively with that of agouti .
in either case , the target of tbx15 action in the skin include gene in addition to agouti , since hair length and melanocyte distribution exhibit a demonstrable , albeit subtle , alteration in animal that carry a null agouti allele .
one potential target be alx4 , which , like agouti , be express in ventral embryonic mesenchyme , and , when mutate , affect hair - follicle as well a limb and craniofacial development ( qu et al. 1997 , 1998 ; wu et al. 2000 ; wuyts et al. 2000 ; mavrogiannis et al. 2001 ) .
however , expression of ventral marker such a alx4 , as well a alx3 and msx2 , appear to be unaffected at e11.5 in deh / deh embryo ( data not show ) .
difference and similarity to dorsoventral limb patterning
loss of tbx15 also affect regional distribution of hair color in the limb , with area that would normally produce black hair give rise to yellow hair instead .
however , neither normal pattern of pigment - type synthesis in the limb nor their disruption in deh / deh mouse correspond to obvious developmental compartment .
furthermore , loss of function for en1 or wnt7a , which cause a partial transformation of the distal limb from dorsum to ventrum ( loomis et al. 1996 ) or ventrum to dorsum ( parr and mcmahon 1995 ) , respectively , have no effect on regional pattern of agouti expression or distribution of hair - color region ( y. chen , unpublished data ) .
( ectopic pigmentation of the ventral footpad that develop in en1 mutant mouse be unrelated to pigment - type synthesis and instead likely reflect a requirement for en1 , independent of wnt7a , to repress migration or proliferation ( or both ) of pigment cell in ventral epidermis [ cygan et al. 1997 ; loomis et al. 1998 ] . )
these consideration notwithstanding , control of dorsoventral trunk pattern by tbx15 share certain feature with control of dorsoventral limb patterning by lmx1b , a lim domain transcription factor that act downstream of wnt7a and en1 ( riddle et al. 1995 ; vogel et al. 1995 ; cygan et al. 1997 ; logan et al. 1997 ; loomis et al. 1998 ; chen and johnson 2002 ) .
both tbx15 and lmx1b act autonomously in mesenchymal cell to promote a dorsal identity , yet have expression domain that do not correspond to cell lineage compartment in the flank ( tbx15 ) or the limb ( lmx1b ) ( altabef et al. 1997 ; michaud et al. 1997 ) .
in the case of lmx1b , it expression in the distal limb depend on wnt7a produce in the overlie dorsal ectoderm ( riddle et al. 1995 ; cygan et al. 1997 ; loomis et al. 1998 ) .
wnt7a , in turn , be restrict to dorsal ectoderm by en1 in the ventral ectoderm ( loomis et al. 1996 ; cygan et al. 1997 ; logan et al. 1997 ) , whose expression mark a lineage boundary coincident with the dorsoventral midline of the apical ectodermal ridge ( altabef et al. 1997 ; michaud et al. 1997 ; kimmel et al. 2000 ) .
a describe above , en1 or wnt7a mutation have not be report to affect pattern of hair - color distribution ( c. loomis , personal communication ; parr and mcmahon 1995 ; loomis et al. 1996 ) .
however , the essential theme that ectodermal lineage compartment control the fate of underlie mesenchyme in develop limb may apply to the trunk as well a the limb .
the mammary gland also develop at a stereotyped dorsoventral position and depend on epithelial – mesenchymal interaction .
however , the number and apparent position of the mammary gland be normal in deh / deh animal , indicate the existence of additional mechanism that control dorsoventral patterning in the trunk as well a in the limb .
these idea be summarize in the model show in figure 9b .
we speculate that a diffusible signal from dorsal trunk ectoderm , at or prior to e11.5 , promote expression of tbx15 in dorsal trunk mesenchyme , which then establish dorsal positional identity of those cell a manifest by difference in agouti expression , pigment - cell development , and hair growth .
because the ventral limit of tbx15 expression correspond to the dorsal limit of en1 expression and because the normal position of the pigmentation boundary lie approximately in register with the limb - bud outgrowth , we depict the position of a putative dorsoventral boundary in trunk ectoderm a coincident with the limb dorsoventral boundary .
this model be consistent with study in the chick , where distinct dorsal and ventral lineage compartment exist for ectoderm in both the limb ( altabef et al. 1997 , 2000 ; michaud et al. 1997 ; kimmel et al. 2000 ) and interlimb region ( altabef et al. 1997 , 2000 ) , but not for limb mesoderm ( altabef et al. 1997 ; michaud et al. 1997 ) .
in fact , the same mechanism that determine dorsoventral position of the limb and the apical ectodermal ridge may also act on expression of tbx15 in the trunk , since ectopic limb induce in the interlimb region by application of fgf bead develop along a single line that be coincident with normal limb bud ( and the future pigmentation boundary ) ( cohn et al. 1995 ; crossley et al. 1996 ; vogel et al. 1996 ; altabef et al. 1997 , 2000 ) .
our model predict that ectopic expression of tbx15 in ventral mesenchyme should give rise to a dorsalized pigmentation phenotype and could be test with gain - of - function approach .
however , tbx15 expression be very dynamic and be restrict to dorsal mesoderm only from e11.5 to e13.5 .
it be possible that tbx15 influence skin patterning in a very narrow window of development ; alternatively , establishment of dorsal identity by tbx15 may require another as - yet - unidentified factor that be only present in the mesenchyme underlie dorsal ectoderm .
pigmentation pattern and tbx15 in other mammal
the lateral somitic frontier , define a the lineage boundary between somite - derive versus lateral plate - derive mesoderm , be establish during somitogenesis early in development ( mauger 1972 ; christ et al. 1983 ; olivera - martinez et al. 2000 ; nowicki et al. 2003 ) , but remain distinct in postnatal animal despite the potential for extensive cell mixing ( see figure 8 ) .
however , our transplantation and fate - map study demonstrate that the lateral somitic frontier lie dorsal to the pigmentation boundary and do not obviously correlate with a difference in skin morphology .
an additional dorsoventral domain that be not externally apparent have emerge from study of msx1 , whose expression mark a subgroup of somite - derive mesenchymal cell that contribute to dermis in a narrow stripe along the paraspinal region ( houzelstein et al. 2000 ) .
thus , there exist at least three distinct boundary in postnatal mammalian skin that be parallel to the sagittal plane , mark by difference in pigment - type synthesis , difference in cell lineage , and difference in expression of msx1 .
in rodent , only the pigmentation boundary be evident externally , but many mammal have more complicated pattern of hair type , length , and / or color that vary along the dorsoventral axis .
raccoon , squirrel , skunk , and many different ungulate exhibit lateral stripe whose developmental origin have not be investigate , but may correspond to the lateral somitic frontier , the paraspinal msx1 compartment , or an interaction between these domain .
the effect of tbx15 on pigmentation in laboratory mouse be reminiscent of coat - color pattern in both selected and natural population of other mammal .
saddle marking be common in some dog breed , such a german shepherd , and in certain population of peromyscus polionotus , in which a dorsal extension of ventral depigmentation provide an adaptive advantage to subspecies that live on white sand reef ( blair 1951 ; kaufman 1974 ; belk and smith 1996 ) .
neither german shepherd nor deer mouse have craniofacial characteristic similar to the deh mutation , but the pigmentation pattern in these animal could represent alteration in the regulation or action of tbx15 activity .
from the opposite perspective , the effect of tbx15 on coat color be only apparent in certain genetic background and may not be evident at all in mammal that lack dorsoventral pigmentation pattern .
study the sequence and expression of tbx15 in other vertebrate may provide additional insight into pattern that affect the skeleton as well a the pigmentary system .
material and method
mouse
all mouse be obtain originally from the jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , maine , united state ) , except the ba strain ( stanford veterinary service center , stanford , california , united state ) , hoxb6 - cre transgenic mouse ( kindly provide by m. kuehn of the national institute of health , bethesda , maryland , united state ) , mouse carry the r26r lacz reporter allele ( kindly provide by p. soriano , fred hutchinson cancer research center , seattle , washington , united state ) , and c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) ae / ae mouse ( kindly provide by l. siracusa , jefferson medical college , philadelphia , pennsylvania , united state ) .
the deh mutation arise in the 1960s in harwell , probably on the bn strain background ( c. beechey , personal communication ) .
we obtain deh on a b6 / eic3h background , introduce the at allele from the btbr strain , and have maintain the line a a mix deh / + × deh / + intercross stock with periodic outcrossing to btbr or b6 .
for time mating , the morning of the plug be consider e0.5 .
postnatally , the day of birth be consider to be p0.5 .
phenotypic analysis
for measurement of hair length and color , the entire interlimb region of skin be first dissect with a single incision at the dorsal midline and preserve with powder sodium bicarbonate .
slice 2 – 2.5 mm in width be then prepare parallel to the dorsoventral axis , hair length boundary determine from electronic image with adobe photoshop ( san jose , california , united state ) , and measurement obtain use imagej ( national institute of health ) .
this approach sample awl and auchenes , because they be much thick and therefore visually more predominant than zigzag underhairs .
to assess dorsoventral variation in hair - type distribution , several hundred hair be pluck from the middorsum or midventrum of 8 - wk - old male ba strain animal , then sort and categorize use a dissection microscope .
no attempt be make to distinguish between awl and auchenes .
for skin histology , 12 μm section from paraffin - embed tissue be stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
for dopa staining , the dermis and epidermis be split after 3 h of incubation in 2 m sodium bromide at 37 °c ( this preparation cause most hair follicle to remain with the dermis ) , individually fix for 1 h , then rinse and stain with 0.1 % l - dopa ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) , 0.1 m sodium phosphate buffer ( ph 6.8 ) for 5 h at 37 °c in the dark , change the staining solution after 1 h .
the sample be then fix overnight , dehydrate , and mount .
this method be sufficient to stain interfollicular melanocyte without create a high background .
the fixative use be always 4 % paraformaldehyde .
positional cloning
a high - resolution map for deh be generate from an intersubspecific intercross between deh / deh and cast / ei mouse .
we initially localize deh to a 1 cm interval between d3mit233 and d3mit11 .
f2 animal carry recombinant chromosome between these marker whose genotype at de be indeterminate ( deh / + or + / + ) be progeny - test by cross to deh / deh animal .
further genetic mapping establish a minimal region of 0.1 cm between d3mit213 and 16.mmhap32flf1 ; these marker be use to initiate construction of a physical map with bac genomic clone ( research genetics , huntsville , alabama , united state , and genome system , st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
end sequence from those bacs be use to develop sscp marker m1 to m3 , a depict in figure 3 , and to establish a minimal physical interval of 1.4 mb .
primer pair use be ttccctccaataagttctgggtacc and aagcttgctgctctggattccatttgtag for m1 , ccttcatttttttttcaagtaaaa and aagcttggcttagtcccagtggc for m2 , cctccaggaagatctactaggcac and atggaaaaaaaaaagtaagattgaaag for m3 , and tggttatcgatctgtggaccattc and aagtgagagagcaggatggaccac for m4 ( the m4 marker represent sts 16.mmhap32flf1 ) .
genomic sequence and annotation be obtain from the ucsc genome browser february 2003 assembly version mm3 ( http://genome.ucsc.edu ) ; the 1.4 mb interval between m1 and m4 contain eight gene : four hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase isomerase , hsd3b3 , hsd3b2 , hsd3b6 , and hsd3b1 ; an hydroacid oxidase , hao3 ; a tryptophanyl - trna synthetase , wars2 ; a t - box gene , tbx15 ; and a novel gene , 4931427f14rik .
in the genome sequence , m1 primer correspond to aggcctccaataagttctgggtacc and aagcttgctctctggattccatttgtag , the m2 reverse primer correspond to aagcttggctttagtcccagtgggc , and the m3 primer correspond to cctccaggaagaatctactaggcac and aatgaaaaaaaaaaaagtaagattgaaag .
minor difference among the sequence of the primer we obtain from the bac end and the public genome sequence may represent strain difference or sequencing error on the bac dna .
a multiplex genotyping assay be develop to genotype for the deh deletion use primer ggagcagatccaattgcttt , tccatagcccatcttcacaa , and catgtccacttctgcttcca .
this pcr assay produce a 392 bp product from the deh chromosome and a 595 bp product from the nonmutant chromosome .
gene targeting
a target allele of tbx15 be construct use the same approach describe in rus et al. ( 2000 ) .
in brief , an ire - lacz - neo cassette with 5 ′ and 3 ′ homology arm of 3.5 kb and 1.8 kb be insert into a unique bamhi site that lie 479 nucleotide downstream of the transcriptional initiation site ( relative to the mrna sequence ) in exon 3 .
positive e clone be inject into b6 blastocyst , and chimeric founder cross to either b6 mouse or to deh / + animal .
in situ hybridization
in situ hybridization be carry out on 12 - μm paraffin section use digoxigenin - label rna probe ( roche diagnostics , indianapolis , indiana , united state ) accord to standard protocol ( wilkinson and nieto 1993 ) .
embryo and postnatal skin sample be obtain from intercrosses of deh / + mouse .
embryo e13.5 or young be fix for 24 h ; those old than e13.5 and postnatal skin be fix for 36 – 48 h prior to embed .
the tbx15 probe be generate by rt – pcr use primer ggcggctaaaatgagtgaac and tgcctgctttggtgatgat ( correspond to exon 1 and 2 ) , and the en1 probe be generate by pcr from genomic dna use primer acgcaccaggaagctaaaga and agcaacgaaaacgaaactgg ( locate in the last exon ) .
the agouti probe correspond to the protein - cod sequence .
embryonic skin transplantation
( btbr - at / at × b6 - a / a ) f1 embryo at e12.5 be dissect in sterile tyrode 's solution , and embryonic skin be divide into dorsal , flank , and ventral piece , each 1 – 2 mm2 in size , a show in figure 7 .
skin fragment be graft to the testis of congenic animal a follow .
after anesthetization with 2.5 % avertin , a 1.5 - cm incision in the skin and body wall be make at a point level with the top of the limb .
the fat pad be pull out and lay on the outside of the body , expose the testis .
forceps be use to introduce a small hole in the testis capsule through which a piece of dissect embryonic skin be insert , the testis be then replace into the abdominal cavity , and the wound be close in both the body wall and the skin .
after 21 day , mouse that receive graft be sacrifice and the result hair be dissect from the testis and examine .
fate - map the lateral somitic frontier
the hoxb6 - cre transgene describe by kuehn and colleague ( lowe et al. 2000 ) be express in the lateral plate but not the somitic mesoderm of the trunk , begin at e9.5 .
animal doubly heterozygous for this transgene and the r26r reporter gene be use a a source of whole skin at p1.5 or p4.5 .
skin section parallel to the dorsoventral axis be prepare with a single incision along the ventral midline and stain for β - galactosidase activity use standard protocol at room temperature .
the p1.5 sample be stain overnight and the p4.5 sample be stain for 5.5 h .
similar nonstained skin section be prepare from animal carry the at allele .
image of the different skin fragment be align and scale , and the relative position of the somite – lateral plate and the pigmentation boundary be measure use imagej .
support information
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank/index.html ) accession number discuss in this paper be for 4931427f14rik ( ak016477 ) , agouti gene ( l06451 ) , alx3 ( u96109 ) , alx4 ( af001465 ) , en1 ( l12703 ) , m6pr - p ( x64069 ) , tbx14 ( af013282 ) , tbx15 ( af041822 ) , tbx18 ( af306666 ) , and tbx22 ( nm_145224 ) .
the omim ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/omim/ ) accession number discuss in this paper be for acromegaloid facial appearance ( mim 102150 ) , frontofacionasal syndrome ( mim 229400 ) and human syndrome x - link cleft palate and ankyloglossia ( mim 303400 ) .
acknowledgement
we thank colin beechey and bruce cattanach for provide information about the origin of deh , cindy loomis for communicate unpublished result , and michael kuehn for provide hoxb6 - cre transgenic mouse .
we be especially grateful to hirotake ono for discussion , to hermie manuel and to carla kroon - veenboer for technical help , and to david kingsley for first draw our attention to the effect of droopy ear on pigmentation .
sic be support by a grant from the donald e. and delia b. baxter foundation .
gsb be an associate investigator of the howard hughes medical institute .
abbreviation
ae - extreme nonagouti allele
afa - acromegaloid facial appearance
at - black - and - tan allele
aw - white - belly agouti allele
b6 - c57bl / 6j mouse
bac - bacterial artificial chromosome
deh - droopy ear allele that arise in harwell
e10.5 - embryonic day 10.5
en1 - engrailed1
m6pr - p - mannose - 6 - phosphate receptor pseudogene
p4.5 - postnatal day 4.5
tbx15 - t - box gene 15
figure and table
figure 1
dorsoventral skin characteristic
( a ) skin slice from animal of different age and genotype demonstrate similar pattern of hair - length variation along the dorsoventral axis ( scale bar = 1 cm ) .
( b ) enlarge area from ( a ) , demonstrate the transition in hair length and color in at / at mouse ( scale bar = 0.375 cm ) .
( c ) proportional hair length for ( a ) plot a a function of relative position along the dorsoventral axis .
( d ) hair length plot a a function of absolute position along the dorsoventral axis for 8 - wk - old ba strain mouse .
( e ) proportion of zigzag hair ( ± sem ) differ slightly between dorsum and ventrum of inbred mouse ( p < 0.0001 , χ2 test , n = 1,958 , 1,477 , 1,579 , 1,502 ) .
( f ) difference in dorsal and ventral skin development at p4.5 ( scale bar = 1 mm , upper ; 200 μm , low ) .
( g ) difference in hair melanin content and dopa staining for dorsum ( d ) , flank ( f ) , and ventrum ( v ) in ae / ae and at / at mouse .
the upper panel also demonstrate a cream - color appearance of the at / at ventrum .
the middle panel show representative awl ( scale bar = 100 μm ) .
the low panel show dopa - stain dermis ( scale bar = 200 μm ) .
figure 2
the deh pigmentation phenotype
( a ) 10 - wk - old deh / deh and nonmutant animal on a at background .
a thin stripe of yellow hair normally separate the dorsal black hair from the ventral cream hair .
in deh , the yellow stripe be extend dorsally , and the boundary between the yellow and the black hair be fuzzy .
( b ) skin slice take from 1.5 - mo - old deh / deh and nonmutant littermates ( scale bar = 0.5 cm ) .
( c ) proportion of total skin area a determine by observation of pelt take from the interlimb region .
the proportion occupy by the yellow lateral compartment ( ± sem ) differ between mutant and nonmutant littermate flank ( p < 0.0005 , pair t - test , n = 6 pair ) .
there be also ( data not show ) a small increase in the proportion of total skin area occupy by the ventral cream - color compartment , 47.9 % in mutant compare to 37.8 % in nonmutant ( p < 0.005 , pair t - test , n = 6 pair ) .
( d ) on an ae / ae background , the extent of dorsal skin pigmentation be reduce in deh / deh neonate ( p3.5 ) .
( e ) hair length in a representative pair of 1.5 - mo - old deh / deh and nonmutant littermates , average over three skin slice at different rostrocaudal level , and plot a a function of the absolute distance from middorsum or the percentage of total slice length .
figure 3
molecular genetics of deh and tbx15
( a ) genetic and physical map , a describe in the text .
marker m1 to m3 be sscp marker generate from a bac contig of the region ; marker m4 be sts 16.mmhap32flf1 and be also use a an sscp marker .
m2 and m3 , which flank the tbx15 and m6pr - p on the ucsc genome browser map and lie 634 kb apart , be nonrecombinant with deh in 2340 meiosis .
( b ) the deh mutation be a deletion that start in tbx15 intron 1 and end in the m6pr - p .
( c ) sequence of deletion breakpoints .
( d ) diagram of tbx15lacz allele construct by gene targeting .
a describe in the text , this allele be predict to give rise to a protein truncate after approximately 154 codon and be lack critical residue of the t box .
heterozygote for the target allele exhibit normal size , morphology , and hair - color pattern , but homozygote and tbx15lacz / deh compound heterozygote be identical to deh homozygote .
figure 4
developmental expression of tbx15
( a ) at e12.5 , transverse section at different level show expression in head mesenchyme ( a and b ) ; myotome , occipital , and periocular mesenchyme ( b ) ; palatal shelf , cervical sclerotome , and nasal cartilage ( c ) ; maxillary and mandibular process ( d ) ; limb ( e ) ; and myotome and lateral mesenchyme ( e and f ) ( scale bar = 500 μm ) .
( b ) transverse section through the flank at different time show expression in lateral mesenchyme ( e11.5 ) , expand dorsally at e12.5 , and both ventrally and dorsally at e13.5 , detectable in loose mesenchyme underlie the dermis and the abdominal and subcutaneous muscle ( scale bar = 500 μm ) .
at p3.5 , tbx15 be express in the entire dermis and be most strongly express in dermal sheath ( scale bar = 200 μm ) .
figure 5
embryonic expression of tbx15 compare to agouti in at / at mouse
( a and c ) tbx15 .
( b and d ) agouti .
at e12.5 , expression of tbx15 in dorsal skin be approximately complementary to that of agouti in ventral skin .
at e14.5 , the level of expression for both gene be low , but tbx15 expression have expand ventrally and overlap extensively with that of agouti .
in all four panel , arrow mark the approximate ventral limit of tbx15 and the approximate dorsal limit of agouti ( scale bar = 500 μm ) .
figure 6
effect of deh on agouti expression
comparable section from at / at ; deh / deh and at / at ; + / + littermates .
( a ) at e14.5 , deh / deh embryo have a small body cavity and loose skin within which agouti expression appear to be shift dorsally , a mark by arrow ( scale bar = 500 μm ) .
( b ) at p4.5 , agouti expression in both dorsal and ventral skin be similar in deh / deh compare to nonmutant , but in the midflank region , there be increase agouti expression in deh / deh , especially in the upper dermis ( scale bar = 200 μm ) .
section show be representative of two mutant and two nonmutant sample examine at each time .
figure 7
embryonic establishment of dorsoventral skin patterning
piece of skin from dorsal , flank , and ventral region of at / a e12.5 embryo be transplant into the testis of congenic animal a describe in the text .
hair color of the graft be examine 3 wk later .
graft of ventral embryonic skin ( n = 3 ) produce yellow hair , dorsal embryonic skin ( n = 4 ) produce black hair , and flank embryonic skin produce mostly ( 13 out of 15 ) black and yellow hair in distinct region a show .
in parallel , in situ hybridization study reveal that the embryonic flank contain the boundary of expression between agouti and tbx15 ( scale bar = 1 mm for hair and 200 μm for in situ hybridization result ) .
figure 8
comparison of the dorsoventral at / at pigmentation boundary to the lateral somitic frontier
( a ) dorsoventral slice of skin from at the midtrunk region prepare such that the dorsal midline lie in the center of the slice .
section be take at p1.5 ( a ) or p4.5 ( b – e ) from at / at or r26r / + ; tg.hoxb6 - cre / + mouse ( the latter be stain with x - gal ) , a describe in material and method .
for purpose of comparison , image be proportionally scale .
the boundary of x - gal staining mark dermis derive from lateral plate versus dermis derive from mesoderm ( the lateral somitic frontier ) and lie more dorsal than the at / at pigmentation boundary .
( b ) quantitation of mean ( ± sem ) dorsal pigmentation area ( n = 5 ) and somite - derive dermis area ( n = 3 ) show a significant difference ( p < 0.005 , t - test ) .
( c ) rna in situ hybridization show that tbx15 expression at e11.5 be complementary to en1 expression on the flank ( scale bar = 200 μm ) .
the arrow indicate the boundary between the expression domain of the two gene .
figure 9
model for acquisition of dorsoventral patterning in the trunk and the role of tbx15
( a ) a tricolor pigmentation pattern be generate by the combination of distinct mechanism that affect distribution of agouti mrna and histochemical stain for melanocyte ; effect of the latter mechanism by itself be evident in ae / ae mouse ( see figure 1 ) .
in at / at mouse , reduce hair melanocyte activity and high level of agouti mrna in the ventrum lead to a cream color ; a melanocyte activity gradually increase towards the dorsum , a lateral stripe be apparent on the flank .
the distribution of agouti mrna and histochemical stain for melanocyte be both affect by tbx15 and be externally evident by a widening of the lateral stripe and an increase proportion of total skin occupy by the cream - color area .
( b ) the lateral yellow stripe in at / at mouse lie at the same level a the limb dorsoventral boundary .
a describe in the text , we propose that distinct dorsoventral compartment in ectoderm of the trunk provide an instructional cue to the mesoderm , lead to expression of tbx15 in dorsal trunk mesenchyme and acquisition of dorsal dermis character .
in the absence of tbx15 , dorsal mesenchyme assume ventral characteristic instead .
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
sic and gsb conceive and design the experiment .
sic , cdvr , cc , ar , and sk perform the experiment .
sic , cdvr , cc , sk , and fm analyze the data .
yc and ar contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
sic and gsb write the paper .
academic editor : brigid l. m. hogan , duke university medical center
conditional gene expression in the mouse use a sleeping beauty gene - trap transposon
abstract
background
insertional mutagenesis technique with transposable element have be popular among geneticist study model organism from e. coli to drosophila and , more recently , the mouse .
one such element be the sleeping beauty ( sb ) transposon that have be show in several study to be an effective insertional mutagen in the mouse germline .
sb transposon vector study have employ different functional element and reporter molecule to disrupt and report the expression of endogenous mouse gene .
we seek to generate a transposon system that would be capable of report the expression pattern of a mouse gene while allow for conditional expression of a gene of interest in a tissue - or temporal - specific pattern .
result
here we report the systematic development and testing of a transposon - base gene - trap system incorporate the doxycycline - repressible tet - off ( tta ) system that be capable of activate the expression of gene under control of a tet response element ( tre ) promoter .
we demonstrate that the gene trap system be fully functional in vitro by introduce the " gene - trap tta " vector into human cell by transposition and identify clone that activate expression of a tre - luciferase transgene in a doxycycline - dependent manner .
in transgenic mouse , we mobilize gene - trap tta vector , discover parameter that can affect germline mobilization rate , and identify candidate gene insertion to demonstrate the in vivo functionality of the vector system .
we far demonstrate that the gene - trap can act a a reporter of endogenous gene expression and it can be couple with bioluminescent imaging to identify gene with tissue - specific expression pattern .
conclusion
akin to the gal4 / uas system use in the fly , we have make progress develop a tool for mutate and reveal the expression of mouse gene by generate the tta transactivator in the presence of a secondary tre - regulate reporter molecule .
a vector like the gene - trap tta could provide a mean for both annotate mouse gene and create a resource of mouse that express a regulable transcription factor in temporally - and tissue - specific pattern for conditional gene expression study .
these mouse would be a valuable resource to the mouse genetics community for purpose of dissect mammalian gene function .
background
derive from ancient salmonid fish sequence [ 1 ] , the sleeping beauty ( sb ) transposon be a member of the tc1 / mariner superfamily of cut - and - paste transposable element [ 2 ] and have be develop a a vertebrate transformation tool [ 3 ] and germline insertional mutagen [ 4 , 5 ] .
we and others have show that the sb transposon be highly active in the mouse germline and can generate heritable loss - of - function mutation that lead to detectable phenotype [ 4 - 7 ] .
data accumulate from spontaneous and engineer mouse mutation suggest that a significant percentage of mouse gene be essential for early development .
this have necessitate the creation of various genetic tool for conditional loss - or gain - of - function genetic study .
in drosophila , the ability to regulate gene in a tissue - or temporally - specific manner have become one method to study the function of these gene .
likewise , the ability to control the expression of an essential mouse gene be one way to discover it function in tissue that be form after lethal phenotype be manifest .
temporal and spatial control of gene expression in mutant background can be use to determine when a gene product be require during a developmental process [ 8 - 10 ] .
with this in mind , and take lesson from the drosophila literature on gal4 / uas - base p - element transposon system [ 11 ] , we design a sb transposon - base gene trap system that allow u to annotate the expression pattern and function of mouse gene .
previous study use the sb transposon system for generate insertional mutation in the germline of mouse use various gene - and polya - trap transposon vector [ 4 , 5 ] .
these vector be design to truncate an endogenous mrna , incorporate coding sequence for a visible reporter like β - galactosidase or green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) , and report the expression pattern of trap gene .
if a transcriptional transactivator , similar to gal4 , be use in place of a visible reporter molecule , a small amount of the molecule could lead to high level of a secondary reporter transgene under control of a responsive promoter .
analogous to the gal4 / uas system , the tetracycline - control transactivator ( tta ) and tet - response element promoter ( tre ) be develop for mammalian system [ 12 ] .
here we report the creation of a mutagenic sb - base , gene - trap transposon vector that can insert into a mouse gene and express the tet - off transcriptional transactivator ( tta ) in it tissue - and temporally - regulate manner .
the " gene - trap tta " can mutate gene and record their expression pattern for functional annotation as well a create a mechanism for drive the expression of transgene in a regulable manner in vivo .
we also report several general parameter that impact the application of the sleeping beauty transposon system to mouse functional genomics include analysis of transposon mobilization rate in several different transgenic line and the rescue of a mutant phenotype by remobilization .
result
creation of the gene - trap tta system
a sb transposon - base gene - trap tta vector be first design for and test in zebrafish embryo [ 13 ] .
the gene - trap tta vector be show function in somatic tissue of zebrafish and activate a tre - regulate gfp transgene .
t2 / gt2 / tta and t2 / gt3 / tta ( fig. 1a ) be similar to the early gene - trap tta ( gt / tta ) and encode a carp β - actin splice acceptor , the encephalomyocarditis virus ( emcv ) internal ribosomal entry site ( ire ) , the tet - off ® ( tta ) coding sequence ( clontech , palo alto , ca ) , and the sv40 late polyadenylation signal .
modification be describe in the material and method and include an upgrade to the ' t2 ' version of the sb invert terminal repeat sequence ( itr ) , demonstrate to increase transposition activity in vitro [ 14 ] , and the addition of stop codon sequence in each reading frame just upstream of the ire .
the t2 / gt3 / tta transposon vector ( fig. 1a ) be additionally modify to include a splice acceptor from the mouse hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase gene ( hprt ) and a v5 - epitope tag on the opposite strand of the transposon .
this allow the gene trap to disrupt gene expression upon insertion into a mouse gene in either orientation .
if open reading frame one be conserve after splicing from the endogenous exon , the v5 - epitope would be add to the truncate peptide .
fig. 1b show the method by which the gene - trap tta can disrupt a mouse gene .
when the gene - trap transposon land in the intron of a gene , it will intercept splicing from an upstream exon and incorporate the ire and tta element to form a bicistronic messenger rna .
translation of the endogenous gene peptide be truncate at one of the stop codon incorporate just upstream of the ire .
the ire element allow cap - independent translation initiation from the second open reading frame to produce tta from the same mrna .
for the t2 / gt2 / tta vector , an insertion into a gene in the opposite orientation be not predict to mutate the gene , however , the t2 / gt3 / tta would interrupt splicing with the hprt splice acceptor , but will not express tta .
before make transgenic mouse , we validate the functionality of the gene - trap tta a a faithful activator of reporter gene expression in vitro .
first , a g418 - resistance cassette be clone into the t2 / gt2 / tta transposon vector to generate t2 / gt2 / tta / svneo ( fig. 1c ) .
we then generate a hela cell line harbor a tre - regulate luciferase transgene .
upon co-transfection of the pt2 / gt2 / tta / svneo transposon vector plasmid and a source of sb transposase , pcmv - sb [ 1 ] , the gene - trap tta transpose at random into the hela cell genome .
the svneo cassette confer g418 resistance to cell that integrate and express the transposon vector , but the gene - trap tta cassette can intercept splicing and express tta only if the transposon land in an express gene in the correct orientation .
fig. 1d show the luciferase activation in sixty - two individual g418 - resistant clone extract .
a a control , a transposon that contain the same g418 resistance cassette , but not the splice acceptor - ire - tta cassette , do not activate luciferase expression ( fig. 1d , white bar ) .
a expect , only a subset of t2 / gt2 / tta / svneo - transgenic clone , 17 out of 50 , show activation of tre - luciferase above background level .
the activity of tta be regulable by administer the drug tetracycline or it analog doxycycline [ 15 ] .
we test this sensitivity by administer doxycycline to three of the tre - luciferase activate clone from fig. 1d .
fig. 1e show the doxycycline - dependent repression of tre - luciferase activation in each clone .
luciferase activity be reduce approximately two order of magnitude in clone , 43 and 44 , and about one order of magnitude in clone 39 .
finally , to assure that gene trap tta activation be dependent on splicing from an upstream exon of an express gene , 5 ' rapid amplification of cdna end ( race ) be perform with primer specific to the gene trap on mrna extract prepare from several clone .
additional file 1 show the sequence tag , chromosome and gene identification obtain for seven clone .
in each case , an upstream exon of the gene be splice into the gene - trap tta at the predict position ( underline ) .
these data demonstrate that the tta molecule can be express from the gene - trap tta vector in the context of a trap gene to activate a tre - regulate transgene and that this activation be repressible by the addition of doxycycline .
with the prospect of generate mouse strain with regulate gene - trap tta activation , we set out to test the system in vivo .
parameter affect germline mobilization rate
transgenic mouse be generate with the t2 / gt2 / tta and t2 / gt3 / tta transposon vector by standard pronuclear injection ( see material and method ) .
a typical result of this protocol be the head - to - tail concatenation of transgene unit before integrate into the mouse genome to create a multi-copy array of transgene in a mouse chromosome .
each transposon transgene concatemer , thus , serve a a donor site contain multiple substrate for mobilization by the sb transposase .
to determine the number of gene - trap tta transposon in each transgenic line , we perform southern blot analysis use a restriction digest scheme that resolve the concatemerized transposon to a single band and estimate the number of copy base on it intensity ( see material and method ) .
table 1 show ten independent transgenic founder line with transposon copy number range from approximately three to sixty copy .
to test for mobilization of the transposon in the germline , each transgenic line be cross to the caggs - sb10 transposase - express strain [ 16 ] .
the result doubly transgenic " seed " mouse be outcrossed to wild type animal to observe gene trap mobilization in the germline .
southern blot analysis on tail biopsy dna from offspring of seed mouse be use , a previously describe [ 4 , 16 ] , to observe the number of new transposon insertion per gamete .
we average the insertion data from seed mouse from each line to calculate the likelihood ( rate per copy number ) that a transposon could be mobilize from their respective concatemers ( table 1 ) .
the data demonstrate that line with few copy of the transposon substrate show the low mobilization rate .
this , however , be not a strict correlation .
this be evident in compare line 6632 and 6657 , where the former have few copy , but show a high per - copy - transposon mobilization rate of the latter .
the inability to mobilize transposon in transgenic mouse with few transposon in the concatemer be consistent with our effort to re-mobilize a single copy insertion in the genome .
we analyze the mobilization of two independently generate single copy insertion .
insertion 01 - 0032 be generate and describe in an early report [ 4 ] and 02a - 0016 be a gene - trap tta insertion identify in an offspring of a t2 / gt2 / tta seed male ( line 4583 ) a describe below .
when sb transposon be excise from a chromosome locus during gametogenesis , host dna repair machinery typically create a " footprint " of a few or several base pair while repair the double - strand - break gap [ 17 ] .
we mobilize the insertion 01 - 0032 and 02a - 0016 by intercrossing doubly transgenic mouse that harbor a single - copy transposon insertion and the caggs - sb10 transposase transgene ( fig. 2a ) .
we detect transposition in about one out of every 100 offspring for either insertion by pcr amplify the sequence that flank the donor site and sequence to detect a footprint ( fig. 2b ) .
notably , remobilization of insertion 01 - 0032 , which cause an early recessive embryonic lethal phenotype a a result of disruption of the mouse slc25a22 gene [ 4 ] , restore activity of the gene and rescue the recessive lethality associate with this insertion a heterozygous 01 - 0032 / footprint mouse be phenotypically normal mouse .
the inability to efficiently remobilize a single copy insertion have be report elsewhere [ 6 ] .
for this reason , we incorporate loxp site into the t2 / gt3 / tta vector ( fig. 1a ) , flank the mutagenic portion of the gene - trap vector .
cre - mediate recombination in tissue and in the germline have be demonstrate and be significantly high than the 1 % mobilization rate we can achieve by remobilizing single copy insertion [ 18 - 20 ] .
thus , a t2 / gt3 / tta gene trap disruption of a mouse gene might be rescue by expression of cre recombinase in a tissue - or germline - specific manner .
table 1 also demonstrate that germline mobilization rate be low in the female germline when compare to their male sibling ( dash box ) .
finally , the solid box show the difference in transposition rate between two sibling male seed mouse , one hemizygous and one homozygous for the transposase transgene .
while the sb10 + / + seed male do not show increase transposition over other independently generate seed mouse for the 4563 line , there be an increase over it sibling sb10 + / - seed male , suggest that we may be able to increase transposition rate by increase the transposase dosage in future study .
the analysis of several transposon - transgenic line have thus reveal parameter that affect transposition rate , and suggest careful line selection will be require for mutagenic program .
sleep beauty - mediate gene insertion in vivo
t2 / gt2 / tta line 4563 and t2 / gt3 / tta line 6660 be useful to identify new transposon insertion in the offspring of seed mouse .
technique for clone transposon - genomic dna junction sequence have be describe [ 1 , 4 , 21 ] .
the chromosomal position of thirty transposition event in offspring of seed mouse from line 4563 be identify by query the ensembl online mouse genome database use the blast function .
the t2 / gt3 / tta line 6660 be use in a study of mutation induce specifically on mouse chromosome 11 and the insertion data from this line will be report elsewhere ( a.m.g. , manuscript in preparation ) .
additional file 2 and additional file 3 show the data accumulate from the thirty t2 / gt2 / tta event .
consistent with previous report , the t2 / gt2 / tta transposon exhibit local hopping , where a significant percentage of new insertion cluster in a particular region of the genome , and the insertion can land in gene [ 4 , 5 ] .
three - primer pcr [ 3 ] can readily be use to genotype carrier for any specific transposon insertion .
because we be interested in test the function of the gene - trap tta vector in the context of an endogenous mouse gene , carrier of insertion 02a - 0001 and 02a - 0002 , both in mouse gene , ( fig. 3a ) be propagate for further study .
molecular characterization of gene - trap tta function
insertion number 02a - 0001 be in the first intron of the carbonic anhydrase - 12 gene ( car12 ) , while 02a - 0002 be insert into intron 8 of the predict novel gene ensmusg00000066992 ( fig. 3a ) .
the top panel in fig. 3b show the expression pattern of mouse car12 by reverse - transcriptase pcr ( rt - pcr ) on rna extract from several wild type tissue use primer in exon 1 and 5 .
if the gene trap be splice properly , the ire and tta sequence should be fuse to exon 1 of the car12 mrna .
the second panel show rt - pcr detection of endogenous car12 and car12 - ire - tta bicistronic transcript in rna sample take from a heterozygous carrier of insertion 02a - 0001 .
nest pcr be necessary to detect the fusion transcript in some tissue .
compare the wild type expression pattern of car12 mrna and the fusion transcript , it be apparent that expression of the trap mrna be tissue specific a predict .
the fusion transcript can be detect in the heart of the carrier , but not wildtype heart rna extract .
we attribute this to the extra sensitivity of the nest pcr and suspect that endogenous car12 be express in the heart at a low level .
if the carp β - actin splice acceptor be efficient , it should truncate the endogenous gene mrna after the near upstream exon .
total rna extract from wild type , and heterozygous or homozygous carrier of both insertion 02a - 0001 and 02a - 0002 be probe for expression of endogenous car12 or ensmusg00000066992 transcript respectively .
fig. 3c show complete ablation of car12 mrna in the kidney and brain of a homozygous carrier of insertion 02a - 0001 .
expression of ensmusg00000066992 , detectable by rt - pcr exclusively in mouse brain ( data not show ) , be not ablate in homozygous carrier of insertion 02 - 0002 , however , suggest that the carp β - actin splice acceptor do not work efficiently in each case .
interestingly , car12 mutant mouse demonstrate reduce fitness , a an intercross of 02a - 0001 carrier result in non-mendelian inheritance of the homozygous class ( data not show ) .
the expression of the carbonic anhydrase ( ca - xii ) have be previously localize to the membrane of mouse kidney , colon , and testis [ 22 ] .
the ca - xii peptide have be previously report to be 46 kda [ 23 ] .
fig. 3c show the reduction of ca - xii expression in the heterozygous kidney and absence in the homozygous kidney .
antibody cross-reaction with a ~ 30 - kda peptide be consistent with cross-reactions previously see in kidney extract with this antibody [ 23 ] , and serve a a loading control ( arrowhead , fig. 3c ) .
tissue - specific activation of a tre promoter - regulate transgene in vivo
the final in vivo test for the gene - trap tta system be to determine whether the vector can activate a tre promoter - regulate transgene in a tissue - specific manner .
we obtain the tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j strain of mouse , transgenic for a tre - regulate luciferase transgene , from jackson laboratory .
these mouse have be previously show to respond to tissue - specific tta expression in a doxycycline - dependent manner [ 24 ] .
luciferase activity assay from individual organ extract from a 02a - 0001 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic animal show activation of luciferase in all tissue test when compare to singly transgenic control ( data not show ) .
this result be surprising because the trap gene , car12 , be not express in the liver ( among other tissue ) by rt - pcr ( fig. 3b ) .
insertion 02a - 0001 be the result of local transposition , and thus be link to the original concatemer of transposon .
we reason that these link t2 / gt2 / tta transgene present in carrier of this insertion might express tta , therefore result ubiquitous luciferase expression when cross to the tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j strain .
to circumvent this issue , we focus on insertion that be not the result of local hopping and would segregate from other transposable element .
insertion 02a - 0002 , 03a - 0184 , 03a - 0217 , and 03a - 0241 ( figs. 3a and 4a ) be the result of non-local transposition of t2 / gt2 / tta or t2 / gt3 / tta transposon in their respective transposon transgenic strain .
carrier of each of these gene insertion be cross to the tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j strain of mouse with the hope of visualize tissue - specific , tta - dependent transactivation of luciferase .
a predict , fig. 4b show weak activation of luciferase in the brain of a 02a - 0002 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic mouse , but not other tissue .
this pattern be reproduce in three out of four mouse .
a show above , this insertion do not completely disrupt the brain expression of ensmusg00000066992 ( fig. 3c ) , but some splicing into the t2 / gt2 / tta splice acceptor must occur to allow tissue - specific expression of the tta .
hasan , et al. ( 2001 ) demonstrate that non-invasive imaging of luciferase expression of a similar tta - activate strain use an intensify charge - couple device camera system after subcutaneous injection of luciferin substrate [ 25 ] .
we use the xenogen ivis™100 imaging system to see if tissue - specific pattern could be detect in gene - trap tta ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic mouse .
light emission be often observe in the extremity , nose , ear , and tail of control tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j in a tta - independent manner in our hand ( fig. 5a ) .
no additional tissue - specific signal be initially detect in 02a - 0001 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j or 02a - 0002 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic mouse , suggest that expression of luciferase level detect in the organ extract be not sufficient to be detect by the imager .
likewise , when cross to the tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j strain , insertion 03a - 0184 and 03a - 0217 ( fig. 4a ) show no activation of luciferase by imaging or by luminometer reading of organ extract ( data not show ) .
while the expression pattern of membrane - span 4 - domain , subfamily a , member 6c ( ms4a6c ) be not characterize , integrin beta 3 ( itgb3 ) have be localize to the develop mouse heart in early embryonic stage [ 26 ] .
it be possible that we miss the expression of these gene - trap tta insertion because these gene be not express in adult tissue .
in contrast , a striking pattern of luciferase expression be capture by image 03a - 0241 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic mouse ( mouse 936 ) when compare to singly 03a - 0241 transgenic ( mouse 933 ) or tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j control ( fig. 5a ) .
light emission pattern be detect from anatomical origin correspond to the sternum , spleen , femur and vertebra , presumably reflect luciferase activation in a component of the bone marrow and hematopoietic cell .
the macf1 gene have more than 100 exon and have be report to be express in multiple isoforms in the mouse with high level produce in the lung [ 27 ] .
use primer in exon that flank the 03a - 0241 insertion to amplify macf1 transcript , fig. 5b demonstrate that at least two splice variant of different size be variably express in several tissue , but macf1 be not normally express in the bone marrow of a wild - type mouse .
this suggest that the 03a - 0241 insertion into macf1 may cause abnormal expression of the gene in the bone marrow and hematopoietic cell .
however , multiple attempt to amplify the chimeric macf1 - ire - tta transcript from bone marrow extract from carrier mouse by rt - pcr be unsuccessful in identify this splice transcript .
to determine whether this pattern be link only to insertion 03a - 0241 and the mouse macf1 gene , southern blot and genotyping pcr be perform on mouse 936 ( and sibling 931 – 935 ) and his offspring ( mouse 949 – 976 ) ( fig. 5c ) .
surprisingly , mouse that inherit insertion 03a - 0241 by pcr show linkage to the concatemer donor site by southern blot ( fig. 5a , arrowhead ) .
this be unexpected because these mouse be generate from t2 / gt3 / tta line 6660 ( table 1 ) , which have a transposon donor site on mouse chromosome 11 .
macf1 be locate on mouse chromosome 4 at 57.4 cm , thus the southern data suggest that a large portion of the chromosome - 11 concatemer have translocate by some mechanism to chromosome - 4 .
thus , the macf1 insertion on chromosome 4 be still genetically link to a translocate donor concatemer of multiple t2 / gt3 / tta transposon in addition to other link single - copy insertion ( fig. 5c , arrow ) .
repeat attempt to identify these other link chromosome - 4 insertion by our cloning technique and 5 ' race for trap sequence in bone marrow extract be unsuccessful in identify the origin of this tissue - specific gene - trap tta expression .
nevertheless , the pattern see in 03a - 0241 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j mouse be unique to these mouse , a it be not see in carrier of other t2 / gt2 / tta or t2 / gt3 / tta insertion ( with or without associate concatemers ) when cross to the tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j strain ( above and data not show ) .
the tissue - specific luciferase pattern in carrier of this insertion could be reproducibly transmit through the germline to offspring ( mouse 962 – 964 and 971 – 973 , fig. 5d ) .
the upper range of luciferase activation from each offsrpring , measure in photon / second / cm2 , range approximately a thousand-fold ( scale bar ) .
we attribute these difference to difference in the level of cap - independent translation of the tta molecule from the ire in each mouse .
finally , other group have demonstrate in vivo sensitivity of tta - dependent activation of gene expression to tetracycline , or it analog doxycycline [ 24 , 28 , 29 ] .
we determine whether we could control gene - trap tta activation of luciferase by administer doxycycline to the drinking water of the 03a - 0241 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j mouse .
fig. 5e demonstrate absence of luciferase signal in the same animal from fig. 5d , after six day of treatment , suggest complete repression of the tta - dependent luciferase activation .
discussion
we examine the utility of a sb transposon - base gene trap vector that express the tet - off transcriptional transactivator in the pattern of trap gene in vitro and in vivo .
the gene - trap tta demonstrate full utility in culture cell , have the ability to insert in gene , trap the splicing of those gene to express the tta transcription factor which , in turn , could activate a tre - regulate transgene in a doxycycline - dependent manner .
likewise , analysis of gene - trap tta transposon insertion into mouse gene reveal that the vector system can completely disrupt the expression of a mouse gene in some case and can tissue - specifically activate expression of a tre promoter - regulate transgene in a doxycycline - dependent manner in vivo .
while ultimately this vector system can function a design , several observation suggest we need a more optimal approach for create a resource of mouse that express tta in developmentally - control pattern .
germline sb transposon mobilization rate in the mouse germline be variable and range from less than one in twenty to nearly three event per gamete .
an evaluation of several different transposon - transgenic line have give u insight into the potential the sb system to perform regional mutagenesis throughout the genome .
the genomic location of the transposon donor site , along with copy number , impact the germline mobilization rate from any concatemer ( see table 1 ) .
this suggest that not all part of the genome be equally accessible to sb transposition .
understand the mechanism behind this " mobilization position effect " will likely require an increase understanding about molecular regulator of sb transposition , but may include a well know director of position effect , heterochromatinization [ 30 ] .
a demonstrate in previous study and here , sb transposon - base gene trap vector can function in vivo to disrupt the expression of mouse gene .
the t2 / gt2 / tta vector can completely ablate the expression of a mouse gene a demonstrate by the null mutation that be generate in the mouse car12 gene .
not all gene insertion completely disrupt gene expression however , a in the case of insertion 02a - 0002 into ensmusg00000066992 .
while hypomorphic mutation may be valuable to discover the function of an essential mouse gene , this have lead to idea on how to improve the efficacy of future vector .
splice acceptor derive from different gene , termination sequence ( polyadenylation signal ) and other functional sequence have be use in several e cell plasmid - and retroviral - base gene - trapping study with vary efficiency [ 31 - 33 ] .
draw data from other group will lead to improve vector for trap mouse gene and perhaps lead to vector to trap certain class of gene [ 34 ] .
the activation of luciferase by the tetracycline - control transactivator vary rougly 1000-fold ( fig. 5d ) when express from the ire in the gene - trap tta .
once again , improvement to the functional component of the gene trap vector may lead to more reliable and great expression of the transactivator .
alternative ire element like the 9 - nucleotide ire element from the murine gtx homeodomain gene [ 35 ] , or eliminate the ire entirely , may allow for more consistent tta expression .
the brilliant pattern of in vivo luciferase expression see if fig. 5 be initially think to originate from insertion in the macf1 gene .
publish report suggest that neither the bone marrow , nor hematopoietic cell be in the normal expression domain of this gene .
upon further molecular characterization , we discover that this gene be not splice into the gene - trap tta , and by southern blot , find it be tightly link to other insertion as well a the concatemer .
it seem more likely that the pattern of tta - dependent luciferase activation see in carrier of the 03a - 0241 insertion come from one of these link transposon .
effort to find the source of this expression by 5 ' race be unfortunately unsuccessful .
we propose that in the case of insertion 03a - 0241 , the concatemer translocate to chromosome 4 first , then a single copy of t2 / gt3 / tta hop locally into macf1 .
we have observe similar and other type of genomic rearrangement associate with transposition from the chromosome - 11 donor site in other mouse ( a.m.g. , manuscript in preparation ) .
these observation would suggest that gene - trap tta mobilization in the germline may not be the most efficient mean of generate a resource of mouse with tissue - specific tta expression pattern .
it be not clear , however , that these large donor site insertion be not rare event that could be tolerate .
independent insertion , unlinked to the concatemer or other transposon , be frequently recover .
by pre-selecting mouse that do not inherit the concatemer by southern blot or pcr analysis , a screen would largely avoid the complication of link transposon .
an alternative and relatively facile approach would be to inject a linearize plasmid harbor the gene - trap tta transposon , along with in vitro - transcribe transposase messenger rna , into one - cell mouse embryo .
in the one - cell embryo , the transposase mrna be translate and transposase catalyze integration into the mouse genome at rate that be two to three-fold high than standard pronuclear injection of naked dna [ 3 ] .
this method produce transgenic mouse with insertion distribute randomly across the genome , and multiple linkage group be frequently obtain from a single injection [ 3 ] .
this would be another method to avoid the complication of link insertion and concatemers .
finally , use the gal4 / uas enhancer trap system use in the fly , expression - base screening have be useful for identify gene with similar or overlap expression pattern [ 36 ] and for tissue - specific overexpression study [ 37 ] .
a we have show here , a transgenic mouse express firefly luciferase under the control of the tet - response enhancer / promoter ( tre ) can be couple with the gene - trap tta system to identify in vivo pattern with an intensify ccd camera system .
in a screen , this type of imaging could be use to identify gene trap insertion that lead to tta expression in a particular tissue or developmental stage , even in utero [ 38 , 39 ] .
alternatively , mouse strain for other tre - regulate transgene have be create , allow for tta - dependent expression of β - galactosidase [ 40 ] or gfp [ 41 ] .
if the efficiency of the gene - trap tta transposon can be improve , these strain could be use by any lab to identify tissue - specific pattern .
conclusion
a a tool for the mouse community , introduce a gene - trap tta vector into mouse gene with different spatial and temporal expression pattern would create a valuable tool for the mouse genetic toolbox .
tissue - specific promoter can control the expression of transactivators like tta and rtta ( reverse tetracycline - control transactivator ) in transgenic animal [ 42 - 44 ] .
have tissue - specific and temporal control of gene expression in any mouse tissue at any developmental stage could allow for the dissection of biological gene function that be previously mask by a phenotype such a lethality .
an sb - base transposon vector be well suit to accomplish this task by introduce precisely integrate functional reporter unit into the mouse genome .
in addition , an improve gene - trap tta could provide more reliable expression of the transactivator than a transgene construct since transcription be regulate in the context of an endogenous gene and be thus less likely to be subject to the position effect variegation that can hinder the expression of transgene .
method
clone gene - trap tta transposon vector
all primer / oligo sequence for pcr and cloning be provide in additional file 4 .
all gene - trap tta vector be descendent of pgt / tta , originally describe in clark et al . 2004 [ 13 ] .
an artificial exon ( base on carp β - actin exon 2 ) , with stop codon in each reading frame , be create by anneal four oligos ( amg049 - amg052 ) , fill in the gap with klenow dna polymerase , ligation with t4 dna ligase , pcr amplify with amg049 and amg051 , and subcloning the agei fragment into the partially - digest smai - agei fragment of pgt / tta to create pgt2 / tta .
subcloning the exonuclease - treat ecorv - psti fragment of pgt2 / tta into the klenow - treat blunt hindiii fragment of pt2 / hindiii [ 14 ] generate pt2 / gt2 / tta .
pt2 / gt2 / svneo be create by subcloning the klenow - treat hindiii fragment of pt2 / svneo [ 14 ] into the ecorv fragment of pt2 / gt2 / tta .
the construction of pt2 / gt3 / tta be a multi-step process to add additional feature to the gt2 version .
first , an nhei site be add to pt2 / gt2 / tta by pcr amplify the entire plasmid with primer ag023 and ag024 , contain a 12 - bp overlap contain the nhei site sequence , and transformation .
e. coli repair the plasmid by homologous recombination in the overlap region , result in the plasmid pt2 / gt2 / tta / nhei .
a loxp site be make by anneal two oligos ( ag025 and ag026 ) contain the 34 - bp loxp sequence with overhang 4 - base cohesive end to nhei and clone into the nhei site of pt2 / gt2 / tta / nhei , destroy the nhei site on one side , and add the loxp sequence to make pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp .
the nhei - spei fragment of pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp be subcloned into the xbai fragment of the transposon vector pt2 / hb , which have a multiple cloning site , to create pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp - 2 .
70 - mer oligos ( sa / v5 - 1 and sa / v5 - 2 ) contain the hprt splice acceptor and v5 epitope tag with eagi compatible end be anneal and clone into the eagi site of pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp - 2 to make pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp / sa - v5 .
in the process , one side of the eagi site be destroy , leave a single eagi site .
a 32 - bp transcriptional termination sequence from the human gastrin gene be create by overlap oligos ( termin - 1 and termin - 2 ) and clone into this eagi site of pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp / sa - v5 to make pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp / sa - v5 / termin .
this sequence be show to enhance transcriptional termination in plasmid vector when downstream of polyadenylation signal [ 45 ] , and be include to increase the chance of mrna truncation , and thus mutation , in the gene trap .
finally , a second loxp site be make by anneal the same oligos above and ligation into the spei site of pt2 / gt2 / tta / loxp / sa - v5 / termin to make the final product , pt2 / gt3 / tta .
generation of tre - luciferase / puro cell line and in vitro gene trap testing
ptre - luc be kindly provide by dr. perry hackett 's lab and be co-transfected with the plasmid pko select - puro ( stratagene , la jolla , ca ) into hela cell use mirus transit - lt1 reagent ( promega , madison , wi ) .
after puromycin resistant clone be isolate , ten clone be test for inducibility by ptet - off ( clontech , palo alto , ca ) .
one clone tlp - 10 show a four - log increase in luciferase expression over background in the presence of transfected ptet - off ( data not show ) , and be subsequently use for the in vitro study present here .
pt2 / gt2 / tta / svneo be transfected into the tlp - 10 cell line along with pcmv - sb [ 1 ] , and clone be select in 800 μg / ml g418 .
pt2 / svneo [ 14 ] be use a a control .
fifty of these clone and twelve control clone be grow to confluency on 60 mm plate and cell harvest with promega 's cell culture lysis reagent for luciferase assay .
luciferase assay be perform on 20 μl of lysis extract use 100 μl of promega 's luciferase assay substrate and a lumat lb 9507 luminometer ( berthold , bundoora , australia ) with a 15 second measuring time .
relative light unit ( rlu ) measurement be normalize to total protein concentration a determine by bradford assay .
doxycycline ( sigma cat. # d - 9891 ) be add to a final concentration of 2 mm to repress tta - induction of tre - luciferase in clone 39 , 43 , and 44 .
rt - pcr and 5 ' rapid amplification of cdna end ( race )
all primer / oligo sequence for pcr be provide in additional file 4 .
total rna from culture cell or mouse tissue be extract with trizol® ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca ) .
rt - pcr be perform use the one - step robust™ i rt - pcr kit ( finnzymes , espoo , finland ) accord to the manufacturer 's protocol .
a template - switch reaction with superscript iii ( invitrogen ) be use to make template for 5 ' race on culture cell or mouse tissue rna extract .
250 ng total rna be mix with 1 μm each of primer gt2 - rt3 and race - 1 , along with 0.01 m dithiothreitol , 500 μm dntps , and 1 unit of superscript iii .
the mixture be cycle six time at 52 ° c for 10 ' , 50 ° c for 15 ' , and then gradually cool from 50 ° c to 37 ° c over two minute before a final extension for 90 " at 37 °c .
template be dilute ten-fold in water and 2 μl be use for primary 5 ' race pcr .
briefly , the template be amplify in a 50 μl pcr reaction supplement with primer gt2 - rt3 ( 0.4 μm ) , kjc - 002 ( 0.04 μm ) and kjc - 003 ( 0.1 μm ) , 200 μm dntps , 2 mm mgcl2 , and 1 unit of taq dna polymerase ( clp , san diego , ca ) .
the pcr machine be program for touchdown pcr at 95 ° c for 3 ' , 10 cycle of 95 ° c for 30 " , 65 ° c for 30 " ( - 0.5 ° c per cycle ) , 70 ° c for 2 ' , and then 25 cycle of 95 ° c for 30 " , 60 ° c for 30 " , and 70 ° c for 2 ' .
the primary race reaction be dilute 1 : 50 and 2 μl use in a nest pcr under the same exact condition , except supplement with 0.5 μm of each primer gt2 - rt2 and kjc - 004 .
generation of t2 / gt2 / tta and t2 / gt3 / tta mouse by pronuclear injection , fluorescent in situ hybridization , and southern blotting
the 3379 - bp fspi - sapi fragment of pt2 / gt2 / tta or the 3738 - bp fspi - sapi fragment of pt2 / gt3 / tta be gel - purify , ethanol precipitate twice , and resuspend in 5 mm tris - cl ( ph 7.5 ) , 0.1 mm edta for pronuclear injection into the fvb / n strain of mouse ( charles river laboratory , wilmington , ma ) .
the pt2 / gt3 / tta fragment be co-injected with the similarly - prepare hinp1i fragment of the plasmid ptybs [ overbeek , 1991 # 211 ] , a tyrosinase minigene construct kindly provide by dr. paul overbeek , in an attempt to coat - color mark animal that inherit the transposon / tyrosinase minigene transgenic insertion site .
expression of the tyrosinase , for unknown reason , be not evident in any of the founder ( data not show ) .
fish on t2 / gt3 / tta transgenic mouse line be perform on splenic lymphocyte use standard technique , and perform nick translation to label the pt2 / gt3 / tta plasmid or whole bac dna from the wellcome trust sanger institute [ 46 ] be use a a probe .
standard southern blotting technique be use to analyze bamhi - digest genomic dna from founder and subsequent generation use the 842 - bp ncoi - sphi fragment of the tta open reading frame a a probe .
bamhi restrict each copy in any t2 / gt2 / tta or t2 / gt3 / tta concatemer to a single band at 2124 - bp or 2236 - bp respectively ( see fig. 1a ) .
transposon mobilize from the concatemer to a genomic site be detect a band of variable size which be large than the concatemer band , their size determine by the near genomic bamhi site ( see fig. 5c ) .
western blotting for ca - xii expression
whole kidney extract be probe with a polyclonal ca - xii antibody kindly provide by the laboratory of dr. william sly .
50 μg total protein be run on a 10 % sd - page ( invitrogen ) and transfer to pvdf and probe with a 1 : 1000 dilution of anti-caxii primary antibody follow by a 1 : 10000 dilution of horseradish peroxidase - conjugate anti-rabbit igg secondary ( amersham bioscience ) in tbst ( 10 mm tris - hcl , ph 7.5 , 150 mm nacl , 0.1 % tween 20 ) supplement with 1 % dry milk .
in vivo luciferase imaging and analysis of luciferase expression , doxycycline treatment
transgenic mouse be image a describe in wilber , et al . ( 2005 ) [ 47 ] , use luciferin from xenogen corporation ( alameda , ca ) .
for luciferase assay on organ extract , mouse be sacrifice , and whole organ dissect and homogenize in promega 's cell culture lysis reagent .
extract be analyze a describe above for the in vitro work .
drinking water be supplement with 5 mg / ml doxycycline and 0.1 % sodium saccharine for 6 day to suppress tta - induce activation .
author ' contribution
amg perform the update vector construction , in vitro testing of the gene - trap tta , preparation of transgene , breeding and characterization of transgenic mouse , 5 ' race , rt - pcr , western blotting , southern blotting , and aid the in vivo imaging study .
aw perform the in vivo imaging for luciferase expression .
cmc breed and characterize ' rescue by remobilization ' for insertion 01 - 0032 .
pdl perform pcr - base method to identify gene - trap tta insertion in transgenic mouse .
kjc originally design the gene - trap tta system and be instrumental to upgrade it design and functionality .
pbh , rsm , and dal be not only the mentor of the above author , but be involve in the design and execution of this manuscript .
supplementary material
additional file 1
t2 / gt2 / tta / svneo clone 5 ' race sequence and gene identification splicing event of gene into the gene - trap tta be identify by 5 ' race pcr and sequencing .
for seven clone , the partial sequence tag demonstrate splicing into the proper branch point of the carp β - actin splice acceptor , allow identification of the trap gene by the sequence of the adjoined endogenous exon sequence .
these gene and their function be describe accord to the ensembl may 17 , 2005 freeze of the ncbi m34 build .
click here for file
additional file 2
germline t2 / gt2 / tta insertion
the genomic position of thirty t2 / gt2 / tta insertion identify in the offspring of seed mouse from line 4563 ( table 1 ) be report .
show be the chromosome and position , along with the identification and description of know or predict gene potentially disrupt for each insertion .
this data be based on the ensembl may17 , 2005 freeze of the ncbi m34 build .
click here for file
additional file 3
distribution of thirty t2 / gt2 / tta insertion
clone insertion from offspring of seed mouse from transgenic line 4563 ( table 1 ) reveal two local hopping interval , one on mouse chromosome 1 near 45.8 mb , and a second on mouse chromosome - 9 around 66.5 mb .
by southern blot , it be later determine that the 4563 line of mouse originally obtain and segregate two independent concatemer integration during the initial transgenesis ( data not show )
click here for file
additional file 4
primer sequence
click here for file
acknowledgement
the author would like to thank dr. abdul waheed ( saint louis university ) for provide the anti-caxii antibody in addition to all member of the arnold and mabel beckman center for transposon research for continuous dedication to stimulate discussion .
the author be support by n.i.d.a. grant r01 - da014764 ( amg , dal ) , n.i.h. grant t32 hd007480 ( amg ) , and n.i.g.m.s. grant t32 gm08347 ( aw ) .
figure and table
figure 1
gene - trap tta vector design and in vitro testing
a ) . the t2 / gt2 / tta and t2 / gt3 / tta vector .
the ' gt2 ' version be capable of mutate gene in one orientation while the ' gt3 ' version can mutate gene in both orientation upon insertion into a gene .
( b - bamhi site )
b ) compare to normal expression ( left ) , when the t2 / gt2 / tta sb transposon - base gene - trap vector insert into a gene in the direction of transcription ( right ) , endogenous splicing incorporate the ire and tta sequence and the bicistronic mrna be prematurely truncate at the sv40 late polyadenylation site .
the bicistronic mrna allow cap - independent translation of the tta molecule in addition to any peptide encode by upstream exon .
c ) a stable , tre - regulate luciferase cell line be create to test the t2 / gt2 / tta / svneo transposon vector .
after co-transfection with a plasmid source of transposase , g418r clone be individually expand for analysis .
d ) individual luciferase expression level of g418r clone cell extract from twelve control ( pt2 / svneo ) and fifty gene - trap tta clone from c .
e ) incubation of three clone from c in medium supplement with 2 mm doxycycline result in 10 - to 100-fold reduction of luciferase expression .
figure 2
phenotypic rescue by transposon mobilization
a ) . breeding scheme to remobilize a transposon insertion , 01 - 0032 , out of the mouse slc25a22 gene a previously report by carlson , et al . ( 2003 ) .
animal for both the single - copy transposon insertion 01 - 0032 and the caggs - sb10 transposase be intercrossed .
b ) germline single - copy remobilization rate of the independently generate insertion 01 - 0032 and 02a - 0016 ( additional file 2 ) be detect by analyze the donor site for evidence of a transposon footprint by sequencing ( data not show ) .
figure 3
molecular characterization of gene - trap tta function
a ) . insertion 02a - 0001 in the mouse car12 gene and insertion 02a - 0002 in the mouse ensmusg00000066992 gene .
gene be show in the orientation of transcription from left to right , vertical line be exon , along with the position and orientation of the t2 / gt2 / tta insertion ( arrow ) .
b ) rt - pcr detection of car12 ( top ) and car12 - ire - tta chimeric ( bottom ) transcription in wild type and 02a - 0001 carrier tissue .
kd - kidney , br - brain , lv - liver , te - testis , ad - adipose , co - colon , si - small intestine , ov - ovary , mu - muscle , ht - heart
c ) rt - pcr analysis of gene disruption in tissue from wild type ( + / + ) , heterozygous ( + / in ) , and homozygous ( in / in ) carrier of insertion 02a - 0001 and 02a - 0002 .
c ) western analysis of ca - xii expression in a wild type , heterozygous and homozygous carrier of insertion 02a - 0001 .
cross-reaction of the ca - xii antibody with other isoforms serve a a loading control ( arrowhead ) .
figure 4
t2 / gt3 / tta gene disruption and tissue - specific activation of a tet - responsive transgene in vivo
a ) . t2 / gt3 / tta insertion into mouse gene not link to the original donor site .
the gene be show in the orientation of transcription with vertical line a exon ( from left to right ) with the position and orientation of the ire - tta trapping cassette ( arrow ) .
b ) luciferase assay perform on individual tissue from four independent 02a - 0002 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic and control tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j mouse .
figure 5
in vivo imaging of gene - trap tta activation of a tet - responsive transgene
a ) . luciferase emission pattern see in a 03a - 0241 ; tg ( tetl ) 1bjd / j doubly transgenic mouse ( 936 ) a image by an intensified charge - couple device ( ccd ) camera .
ventral and dorsal aspect be show .
the intensity of luciferase expression be compare in photon / second / cm2 .
b ) rt - pcr analysis of macf1 expression in multiple adult tissue , gapdh be use a a control for sample quality .
e - embryonic stem cell , lv - liver , kd - kidney , br - brain , lu - lung , ht - heart , sp - spleen , st - stomach , bm - bone marrow , si - small intestine , co - colon , ad - adipose , mu - muscle , ov - ovary , b - testis , th - thymus
c ) southern analysis of mouse from a and b ( see material and method ) .
the donor site concatemer appear a an intense bamhi fragment at 2236 base pair ( arrowhead ) .
the detection of insertion 03a - 0241 by three - primer pcr be show below each lane .
three band mark by arrow segregate with insertion 03a - 0241 genotyping and the concatemer .
d ) pattern inheritance by offspring of mouse 936 .
mouse be image and scale to different range of intensity that range from 1 x 104 to 1 × 108 photon / second / cm2 ( scale bar ) .
e ) repression of in vivo luciferase activation after six day of treatment with doxycycline in the same mouse from d .
table 1
mobilization of gene - trap tta transposon in the germlines of seed mouse .
a transposon copy number for each transgenic line be determine by southern blot ( see material and method )
b the number of single - copy insertion a determine by the presence of new band on a southern blot after mobilization by transposase in the germline of seed mouse
c report be the average hit / gemete divide by the copy number
mouse pachytene checkpoint 2 ( trip13 ) be require for complete meiotic recombination but not synapsis
abstract
in mammalian meiosis , homologous chromosome synapsis be couple with recombination .
a in most eukaryote , mammalian meiocytes have checkpoint that monitor the fidelity of these process .
we report that the mouse ortholog ( trip13 ) of pachytene checkpoint 2 ( pch2 ) , an essential component of the synapsis checkpoint in saccharomyces cerevisiae and caenorhabditis elegans , be require for completion of meiosis in both sex .
trip13 - deficient mouse exhibit spermatocyte death in pachynema and loss of oocyte around birth .
the chromosome of mutant spermatocyte synapse fully , yet retain several marker of recombination intermediate , include rad51 , blm , and rpa .
these chromosome also exhibit the chiasma marker mlh1 and mlh3 , and okadaic acid treatment of mutant spermatocyte cause progression to metaphase i with bivalent chromosome .
double mutant analysis demonstrate that the recombination and synapsis gene spo11 , mei1 , rec8 , and dmc1 be all epistatic to trip13 , suggest that trip13 do not have meiotic checkpoint function in mouse .
our data indicate that trip13 be require after strand invasion for complete a subset of recombination event , but possibly not those destine to be crossover .
to our knowledge , this be the first model to separate recombination defect from asynapsis in mammalian meiosis , and provide the first evidence that unrepaired dna damage alone can trigger the pachytene checkpoint response in mouse .
author summary
it be critical that the chromosome carry by sperm and egg contain faithful representation of the genome of the individual that produce them .
during the process of meiosis , the maternal and paternal copy of each chromosome “ synapse ” with each other ( become tightly associate ) , exchange genetic material via the process of recombination , then separate into daughter cell in the first of two meiotic cell division .
the intricate chromosome behavior be subject to error , so most organism have evolve meiotic “ checkpoint ” that monitor fidelity of chromosome synapsis and repair of dna damage .
these checkpoint cause defective cell to self destruct rather than generate defective sperm or egg .
we study the effect of delete mouse trip13 , a gene that in distant organism play a key role in meiotic checkpoint control .
these experiment reveal that instead of have a checkpoint role , trip13 be require for one of the two major class of recombination in meiosis that be require for repair broken dna molecule .
the chromosome still synapsed normally , but animal be sterile due to massive death of oocyte and spermatocyte .
these result indicate that , in addition to a checkpoint that respond to fail synapsis , one exist to specifically detect unrepaired dna damage that be due to fail recombination .
introduction
the genesis of gamete contain an intact , haploid genome be critical for the prevention of birth defect , and be highly dependent upon the fidelity of chromosome dynamic before the first meiotic division .
homologous chromosome must pair , synapse , undergo recombination , and segregate properly to opposite pole .
recombination , which repair repair double strand break ( dsbs ) that be genetically induce in leptonema , be couple with synapsis in bud yeast and mammal .
while our knowledge of the assembly and nature of recombination machinery be extensive , little be know about the disassembly of recombination intermediate , recruitment of dna replication machinery during recombinational repair , and how the choice between different repair pathway be make .
defect in recombination can preclude homologous chromosome pairing , leave unrepaired chromosome break , and cause aneuploidy by abrogate cross over .
to avoid such deleterious outcome , surveillance system ( “ checkpoint ” ) exist to sense meiotic error and eliminate cell contain unresolved defect .
in many organism , include s. cerevisiae , drosophila melanogaster , c. elegans , and mouse [ 1 – 4 ] , meiocytes with defect in recombination and / or chromosome synapsis trigger meiotic arrest in the pachytene stage of meiotic prophase i .
this response to meiotic defect be refer to a the “ pachytene checkpoint ” ( review in [ 5 ] ) .
genetic experiment in s. cerevisiae have identify element of the pachytene checkpoint machinery ( review in [ 5 ] ) .
in addition to meiosis - specific protein , these include factor that play role in dna damage signaling in mitotic cell [ 6 – 10 ] .
arabidopsis thaliana do not appear to have a pachytene checkpoint akin to that in yeast [ 11 ] , nor do male drosophila .
the pachytene checkpoint be know to monitor two aspect of meiotic chromosome metabolism in s. cerevisiae and c. elegans : ( 1 ) dsb repair and ( 2 ) chromosome synapsis [ 2 , 12 ] .
in mouse , both spermatocyte and oocyte harbor mutation that disrupt dsb repair ( such a dmc1 , msh5 , and atm ) be efficiently eliminate in pachynema , but spermatocyte be much more sensitive to dsb repair – independent synapsis defect than oocyte [ 13 – 15 ] .
however , because recombination be require for synapsis in mouse ( mutation in recombination gene such a dmc1 cause extensive asynapsis [ 16 ] ) , it have remain formally uncertain whether there be a distinct pachytene checkpoint that respond to defect in meiotic recombination , and if so , whether it would be identical to that use in somatic cell .
the mechanism of putative pachytene checkpoint control remain unknown in mammal , since no mutation have be identify that abolish it .
pch2 , encode a nucleolar - localize aaa - atpase that be originally identify in an s. cerevisiae genetic screen for mutant that relieve pachytene arrest of asynaptic zip1 mutant [ 8 ] , be recently determine to be an essential component of the pachytene synapsis ( but not dsb repair ) checkpoint in yeast and worm [ 2 , 12 ] .
pch2 orthologs be present in organism that undergo synaptic meiosis , but not asynaptic meiosis , prompt the suggestion that a pch2 - dependent checkpoint evolve to monitor synaptonemal complex ( sc ) defect from yeast to human [ 12 ] .
here , we generate mouse deficient for the trip13 , the ortholog of pch2 , and evaluate whether it also play a role in the pachytene checkpoint .
surprisingly , while we find no evidence for checkpoint function , we do uncover a potential role for this protein in noncrossover ( nco ) repair of meiotic dsbs .
result
trip13 be a widely express mammalian ortholog of pch2 with unusual phylogenetic relationship
the mammalian ortholog of pch2 , trip13 ( thyroid hormone receptor interact protein 13 ) , encode a protein with extensive amino acid homology in region alignable to the yeast and worm orthologs ( figure s1 ) [ 12 ] ) .
interestingly , phylogenetic analysis of trip13 / pch2p show that the mammalian protein cluster more closely to plant than it do to the evolutionarily more closely relate worm and fly ( figure 1a ; see discussion ) .
semi-quantitative reverse - transcriptase pcr ( rt - pcr ) analysis show trip13 mrna to be express in a variety of embryonic and adult tissue , include testis ( figure 1b ) , consistent with mouse and human est data summarize in unigene ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/unigene ) .
it be also highly express in human and mouse oocyte [ 17 ] .
figure 1
the mouse pch2 ortholog trip13 and expression in wild type and mutant
( a ) phylogenetic tree of presumed pch2 / trip13 orthologs .
the database sequence accession number of each protein be present in table s1 .
number show be bootstrap value ( see material and method ) .
the clustering be the same regardless of whether the whole entire aa sequence or trim sequence ( where region show little conservation be remove ) be use for the analysis .
major eukaryotic group be indicate in color , with deuterostomia in blue , plant in green , protostomia in purple , and fungi in maroon .
( b ) amplification product of cdna from the following tissue : 1 , heart ; 2 , brain ; 3 , spleen ; 4 , lung ; 5 , liver ; 6 , skeletal muscle ; 7 , kidney ; 8 , testis ; 9 , e7 embryo ; 10 , e11 embryo ; 11 , e15 embryo ; and 12 , e17 embryo .
( c ) intron – exon structure of trip13 and insertion site of gene - trap vector .
see material and method for detail on how the precise insertion site be identify .
( d ) rt - pcr of trip13 and a control gene med31 from testis rna .
the trip13 primer be situate in the first and last exon ( see material and method ) .
( e ) western blot analysis of testis protein with anti-trip13 antibody .
the blot be later probe with anti-alpha tubulin actin a a loading control .
the expected trip13 protein be ∼ 48 kda .
( f ) localization of trip13 in testis .
wild - type ( top ) and mutant ( bottom ) testis section be probe with chicken anti-trip13 , and detect with hrp - conjugate anti-chicken igg ( brown / red staining ) .
expression in wt be most prominent in the nucleus of type b spermatogonia ( sg ) , leptotene spermatocyte ( l ) , and early pachytene spermatocyte ( p ) , but not late pachytene spermatocyte ( lp ) .
no nuclear staining be see in mutant testis section , although reddish cytoplasmic background be present .
identification of cell type be judge in part by estimate the epithelial stage of the tubule a describe [ 67 ] .
( g ) trip13 localization in surface - spread spermatocyte .
preparation be immunolabeled with anti-sycp3 ( s ) and trip13 ( t ) .
both individual and merge image be show for leptotene ( lep ) , zygotene ( zyg ) , and pachytene ( pac ) spermatocyte .
nuclear staining be absent in the mutant .
generation of trip13 mutant mouse
to explore the function of trip13 in mammal , we generate mouse with a gene trap - disrupt allele , trip13rrb047 ( figure 1c ; abbreviate a trip13gt ) .
heterozygote be normal in all respect , but homozygote be present at ∼ 2 / 3 the expect ratio from intercrosses between heterozygote ( 91 trip13 + / + , 183 trip13gt / + , and 61 trip13gt / gt ) .
since > 90 % of prewean mouse that die be mutant homozygote , this discrepancy be apparently due to a partially penetrant lethality .
most survive trip13gt / gt animal be grossly normal .
however , homozygote that be semi-congenic ( n4 ) on the c57bl / 6j strain be often markedly small and / or have kink or short tail ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
figure 2
developmental phenotype of trip13 mutant mouse
( a ) show be 21 - d - old littermates .
note the shorten tail in the mutant , but overall similar body size .
( b ) show be 23 - d - old littermates .
the mutant be small in this case , but the tail be not as truncated a the mouse in ( a ) .
( c ) wild - type ( wt ) and homozygous trip13 mutant ( mut ) testis .
( d ) and ( e ) be cross section through 17.5 - d - old heterozygous ( “ wt ” ) and homozygous mutant trip13 testis , respectively .
whereas the tubule in wt show coordinate spermatogenesis with pachytene spermatocyte present in all tubule ( proximal to the lumen ) , developmental progression in the mutant be not synchronize between tubule .
some tubule have no pachytene spermatocyes ( asterisk ) , while in others , development be somewhat disorganized ( # ) .
rt - pcr analysis of trip13gt expression ( figure 1d ) reveal a low level of normally splice transcript in testis of homozygote that be presumably a consequence of incomplete usage of the gene trap 's splice acceptor .
western blot analysis , use a polyclonal antibody raise against a peptide encode by exon 3 , reveal multiple specie in wild - type and heterozygous testis , one of which correspond to the expect size of 48 kda ( figure 1e ) .
this and three other specie be undetectable in homozygous mutant testis , but a reduce amount of an intense ∼ 38 kda small band be present .
it be not clear if this correspond to trip13 .
the greatly decrease trip13 mrna and predict correct - length protein in mutant indicate that the trip13rrb047 allele be severely hypomorphic .
to determine the germ cell type in which trip13 be express , and to assess possible expression in the mutant by mean other than western analysis , testis section be immunolabeled for trip13 use a polyclonal chicken antipeptide antibody ( see material and method ) .
the most intensely label cell in control testis be type b spermatogonia and leptotene spermatocyte ( figure 1f ) .
zygotene / pachytene spermatocyte stain less strongly , and there be no detectable staining in late pachytene spermatocyte .
trip13 appear to be nuclear localize .
there be no such staining of nucleus in mutant seminiferous tubule ( figure 1f ) .
to far assess the nuclear localization , trip13 be use to probe meiotic chromosome prepare by surface spreading of spermatocyte nucleus .
in wild type , there be diffuse nuclear staining , and no evidence of concentration on sc core ( mark by the axial element protein sycp3 ) at any meiotic substage ( figure 1g ) .
trip13 signal be noticeably absent in mutant meiotic nucleus .
infertility due to meiotic disruption in trip13 - deficient meiocytes
homozygote of both sex have small gonad ( figure 2c ; see below ) and be invariably sterile .
ovary of adult trip13gt / gt female be severely dysmorphic and have few or no follicle ( figure 3a and 3b ) .
the majority of oocyte loss occur in late embryogenesis or early in postnatal development , since 2 d postpartum ovary be markedly small than those of control littermates , and be lack oocyte or newly form follicle ( figure 3c and 3d ) .
thus , oocyte fail to progress to the dictyate ( rest ) phase .
since we observe oocyte with pachytene stage chromosome in 17.5 d trip13gt / gt embryonic ovary ( unpublished data ) , this indicate that oocyte be eliminate somewhere between pachynema and dictyate .
figure 3
histology of mutant gonad
all be hematoxylin / eosin - stain paraffin section .
testis be from 6 - wk - old male , except a indicate below .
( a ) wild - type 25 - d - old ovary .
( b ) trip13gt / gt 25 - d - old ovary , show dysgenesis from an absence of oocyte .
( c ) trip13gt / + 2 - d - old control ovary .
arrow point to oocyte in newly form follicle .
( d ) trip13gt / gt 2 - d - old ovary , dysgenic due to lack of oocyte .
magnification be the same a it littermate in “ c. ”
( e ) wild - type testis .
( f ) trip13gt / gt testis with uniform pachytene arrest .
( g ) trip13gt / gt 3 - mo - old testis with some postmeiotic spermatid ( arrow ) .
( h ) spo11 − / - testis .
a tubule with spermatocyte at leptotene / zygotene transition be label zp , and tubule with apoptotic spermatocyte be mark with an asterisk .
the specimen be take from a littermate of that in ( i ) .
( i ) spo11 − / − trip13gt / gt testis .
labeling be the same a in ( h ) .
the inset contain a tubule with leptotene - zygotene spermatocyte .
( j ) mei1 − / − trip13gt / + testis .
the specimen be take from a littermate of that in ( k ) .
( k ) mei1 − / − trip13gt / gt testis .
( l ) rec8mei8 / rec8mei8 trip13gt / + testis .
the rec8mei8 allele be describe [ 39 ] .
the specimen be take from a littermate of that in ( m ) .
( m ) rec8mei8 / rec8mei8 trip13gt / gt testis .
( n ) dmc1 − / − trip13gt / gt testis .
( o ) spo11 − / − trip13gt / + 25 - d - old ovary .
the specimen be take from a littermate of that in ( p ) .
( p ) spo11 − / − trip13gt / gt 25 - d - old ovary .
( q ) mei1 − / − trip13gt / + 25 - d - old ovary .
the specimen be take from a littermate of that in ( r ) .
( r ) mei1 − / − trip13gt / gt 25 - d - old ovary .
( s ) rec8mei8 / rec8mei8 trip13gt / + 25 - d - old ovary .
the specimen be take from a littermate of that in ( t ) .
( t ) rec8mei8 / rec8mei8 trip13gt / gt 25 - d - old ovary .
histological section of mutant testis reveal a lack of postmeiotic cell type that be characteristic of wild - type seminiferous tubule ( figure 3e ) .
the most developmentally advance seminiferous tubule contain adluminal spermatocyte with condense chromatin characteristic of pachynema ( figure 3f ) .
the absence of coordinate spermatogenic progression beyond this stage be indicative of a pachytene arrest .
this be reveal more clearly by chromosome analysis ( see below ) .
some section of adult seminiferous tubule contain postmeiotic spermatid ( figure 3g ) , although we saw no motile epididymal sperm .
these drastic meiotic defect stand in contrast to yeast and c. elegans , in which deletion of pch2 alone have minor effect on spore / gamete development [ 2 , 8 ] .
trip13 - deficient meiocytes undergo homologous chromosome synapsis despite the presence of unrepaired dsbs in pachynema
to well characterize the degree of meiotic progression in trip13gt / gt spermatocyte , we immunostained chromosome spread for sycp3 and sycp1 , component of the axial / lateral element and transverse filament , respectively , of the synaptonemal complex ( sc ) .
pachytene spermatocyte nucleus from postpubertal mutant testis could assemble normal sc core and exhibit full synapsis of chromosome a judge by colabeling of sycp1 and sycp3 along the full length of all autosome ( figure 4a ) .
additionally , the x and y chromosome be normally synapsed at their pseudoautosomal region .
more prepubertal ( 17.5 d postpartum ) mutant spermatocyte contain asynaptic or terminally asynapsed chromosome than age - match control ( 62.5 % versus 25 % , respectively ; figure 4b ) .
we attribute this to a delay in the first wave of postnatal spermatogenesis ( figure 2d and 2e ) , likely relate to systemic developmental retardation ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
nevertheless , since trip13gt / gt spermatocyte progress to pachynema with no gross sc abnormality , and oocyte be eliminate soon after birth ( a characteristic of dna repair mutant [ 13 ] ) , this suggest that unrepaired dsbs be responsible for eventual meiotic arrest and elimination .
figure 4
immunohistochemical analysis of pachytene spermatocyte chromosome
surface - spread chromosome be immunolabeled with the indicate antibody and fluorophores .
a indicate in the upper right of each panel , cell be from wild type ( wt , either + / + or trip13gt / + ) or trip13gt / gt ( mut ) .
there be no difference see between heterozygote and + / + spermatocyte .
( a ) a mutant pachytene nucleus with full synapsis .
area of sycp1 / sycp3 colabeling be yellow .
( b – e ) spermatocyte nucleus from 17.5 d postpartum mutant .
asynapsed chromosome or region of chromosome be indicate by white and yellow arrow , respectively .
unlike the normal distribution in wild - type pachytene spermatocyte ( c ) , blm focus be present on synapsed pachytene chromosome in the mutant ( d ) .
rad51 focus , which be abundant earlier in prophase , disappear from autosome in wild - type pachytene nucleus ( e ) and the bulk of staining be over the xy body ( arrow ) .
( f ) rad51 persist on the synapsed mutant chromosome ( arrow ) .
( g ) h2ax phosphorylation be restrict to the xy body in wt .
( h ) in addition to a large area of γh2ax staining ( arrow ) over the xy body , there be extensive autosomal h2ax phosphorylation ( arrow ) .
( i , j ) note that in wild - type pachytene spermatocyte , topbp1 be present only over the xy body ( yellow arrow ) .
in the mutant ( j ) , an arrow denote one area of intensive staining that may be over the sex chromosome , but many other chromosome core be positively stain .
( k , l ) rpa persist along synapsed core in the mutant , not wt .
( m , n ) arrow indicate example of mlh3 focus on sc .
( o ) in wt late pachytene spermatocyte , rad51 be present only at background level .
( p ) a in ( f ) , extensive rad51 staining delineate sc in mutant pachytene nucleus ( indicate by white arc ) .
mlh1 focus colocalize with these tract ( arrow ) at the typical 1 – 2 focus per chromosome a in ( m ) .
to elucidate the cause of meiotic arrest , we analyze meiotic chromosome with a variety of marker that be diagnostic of recombination and synapsis .
recombination in trip13gt / gt spermatocyte appear to initiate normally a judge by the presence of γh2ax in leptonema ( figure s2a and s2b ) , which reflect the presence of meiotically induce dsbs [ 18 ] .
rad51 and / or dmc1 , component of early recombination nodule ( ern ) , be also present a abundant focus in trip13gt / gt zygotene spermatocyte ( unpublished data ; the anti-rad51 antibody cross-reacts with dmc1 ) , indicate that recombinational repair of dsbs be initiate .
the cohesin complex , which be essential for completion and / or maintenance of synaptic association , appear to assemble normally a judge by immunolabeling for the meiosis - specific cohesins stag3 ( figure s2c and s2d ) and rec8 ( unpublished data ) .
because yeast pch2 localize to telomere in a sir3p - dependent manner , we test for possible telomere defect by immunolabeling for trf2 , a component of a protein complex that play an essential role in telomere protection [ 19 ] .
it be localize to telomere of both fully synapsed and telomerically asynaptic mutant chromosome ( figure s2e and s2f ) .
defect in dsb repair become apparent in pachynema upon probing of mutant spermatocyte nucleus with antibody against molecule involve in various stage of recombination .
in > 99 % of trip13gt / gt chromosome spread , blm helicase ( figure 4c and 4d ) , rad51 / dmc1 ( figure 4e and 4f ) , γh2ax ( figure 4g and 4h ) , and topbp1 ( figure 4i and 4j ) all persist abnormally on synapsed chromosome .
for rad51 / dmc1 , mutant pachytene spermatocyte contain 138 ± 6 focus ( compare to 11 ± 3 focus in wild type , most of which be on the xy body ) , down from 218 ± 13 in zygonema ( compare to 220 ± 13 focus in wild type ) .
topbp1 be a dna damage – checkpoint protein involve in atm protein – dependent activation of atr protein [ 20 , 21 ] .
it bind site of dsbs and unsynapsed region of meiotic chromosome [ 22 , 23 ] .
blm have be report to colocalize with marker ( rpa and msh4 ) of recombination at site distinct from those that become resolved a crossover ( co ) [ 24 ] .
we therefore assess the distribution of rpa , the ssdna binding protein , which be normally present at focal site of synapsing meiotic chromosome before disappear in mid-pachynema [ 25 ] .
it be think to bind d - loop of recombination intermediate [ 26 ] .
rpa also persist on pachytene mutant chromosome ( figure 4k and 4l ) .
these data indicate that unrepaired dsbs , or unresolved recombination intermediate , remain in pachynema and activate a dna damage checkpoint system .
it should be note that chromosome affect by meiotic sex chromosome inactivation ( msci ) and meiotic silencing of unpaired chromatin ( msuc ) be heavily stain by antibody for several dsb repair - associate molecule , include γh2ax .
h2ax phosphorylation due to msci and msuc be conduct by atr , not atm [ 27 – 29 ] .
since mutant chromosome be fully synapsed , and msuc be know to occur only a a result of asynapsis , the decoration of trip13gt / gt chromosome with dna repair marker be probably attributable to incomplete dna repair rather than transcriptional silencing .
consistent with the presence of rare ( < 1 % ) trip13gt / gt pachytene spermatocyte devoid of persistent dna repair marker , and testis histology show some degree of postmeiotic progression ( figure 3g ) , we observe both diplotene nucleus that lack autosomal rad51 / dmc1 and γh2ax ( figure s3a – s3d ) , and also metaphase i spread with 20 bivalents ( figure s3e – s3f ) .
since trip13gt may not be a complete null , these diplotene and metaphase i spermatocyte might arise by virtue of have sufficient wild - type trip13 .
co - associate marker appear normally in the absence of trip13
the persistence of blm on trip13gt / gt spermatocyte chromosome suggest that at least a subset of the unrepaired dsbs correspond to site of defective nco recombinational repair .
to assess whether co recombination occur in the mutant , we examine the distribution of the mismatch repair protein mlh1 and mlh3 , which be normally detectable a focus in mid - late pachynema and mark the location of chiasma [ 30 , 31 ] .
remarkably , mlh1 / 3 focus be form ; we observe 1 – 2 focus / chromosome a in wild type and at typical overall level ( mlh3 = 23 ± 2 , n = 10 ; [ 30 , 32 ] ) on mid - late pachytene chromosome ( figure 4m and 4n ; mlh1 not show ) .
since < 1 % of trip13gt / gt pachytene nucleus have normal repair ( a judge by absence of persistent dsb repair marker ; see above ) , but most of the pachytene nucleus have mlh1 / 3 focus , it be unlikely that the mlh1 / 3 focus form only on chromosome with fully repair dsbs .
to test this directly , we conduct double staining for mlh1 and rad51 / dmc1 .
mlh1 focus be present on chromosome that also contain numerous rad51 / dmc1 focus ( figure 4o and 4p ) .
to assess whether these mlh1 / 3 focus in trip13gt / gt pachytene spermatocyte represent co event complete to a point where they could maintain interhomolog attachment though the end of prophase i , we treat testicular cell from 17.5 – 20.5 - d - old control ( + / + ) , trip13gt / gt , and dmc1 − / − mouse with the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid ( oa ) , a chemical that induce degradation of the sc , chromosome condensation , and premature progression to metaphase i [ 33 ] .
fifteen metaphase spread be identify for each genotype .
whereas all of the dmc1 − / − spread have ∼ 35 or more condense chromosome , all of the + / + and trip13gt / gt spread have 20 – 25 , suggest that the mlh1 / 3 focus in trip13gt / gt pachytene spermatocyte represent site of completed , or near - completed , co .
because the preparation be make from whole testis , it be possible that the univalent - contain metaphase from dmc1 − / − mouse be from spermatogonia , not spermatocyte .
trip13 deficiency do not alleviate meiotic arrest phenotype of mutant defective in synapsis
to determine if trip13 deficiency prevent apoptosis trigger by asynapsis a in c. elegans , we analyze mouse that be doubly mutant for spo11 and trip13 .
spo11 be a transesterase that be essential for the creation of genetically program dsb during leptonema of many organism , include mouse [ 18 ] .
in c. elegans , spo - 11 mutant gamete have extensive asynapsis , which trigger pch - 2 dependent apoptosis in pachynema [ 2 ] .
in mouse , spo11 − / − spermatocyte be severely defective in homologous chromosome synapsis [ 34 , 35 ] , and arrest with chromosome in a state characteristic of the zygotene / pachytene transition ( figure 3h ) .
spermatocyte in trip13gt / gt spo11 − / − testis progress maximally to that point before undergo death ( fig 3i ) , well before the spindle checkpoint that eliminate achiasmate spermatocyte [ 36 ] .
there be no evidence of metaphase i spermatocyte or postmeiotic spermatid in these testis , unlike those see in trip13 single mutant ( figure 3g ) .
in contrast to the complete synapsis in trip13gt / gt pachytene spermatocyte ( figure 5a ) , in which spo11 be available in leptonema to initiate ( via dsb induction , figure s2a and s2b ) a recombination - drive homolog search , chromosome synapsis in doubly mutant spermatocyte be highly disrupt a in spo11 single mutant ( figure 5b and 5c ) .
identical study be perform with mouse deficient for mei1 , a vertebrate - specific gene also require for dsb formation and chromosome synapsis [ 37 ] , with similar result ( figure 3j and 3k ; immunocytology not show ) .
figure 5
immunocytological analysis of trip13 compound mutant
surface - spread chromosome be immunolabeled with the indicate antibody and fluorophores .
genotype be indicate , a be those panel in which dual staining pattern be merge .
note that ( h ) and ( i ) be at low magnification to show multiple nucleus .
in yeast , deletion of pch2 alleviate the pachytene arrest cause by asynaptic mutant zip1 and zip2 [ 8 ] .
although mouse sycp1 might be a functional equivalent of zip1p , because sycp1 mutant spermatocyte arrest at approximately the same point a trip13 mutant , there would be no opportunity to observe bypass of sycp1 − / − .
since zip2p be present at site of axial association , even in zip1 mutant , it have be suggest that zip2p promote initiation of chromosome synapsis [ 38 ] .
these observation raise the possibility that in yeast , pch2p respond to synapsis polymerization rather than initiation .
to test this , we perform epistasis analysis with a rec8 allele ( rec8mei8 , abbreviate a rec8 − ) .
meiotic chromosome of rec8 mutant spermatocyte undergo apparent homolog pairing and interhomolog synaptic initiation , but be defective in dsb repair and fail to maintain interhomolog synapsis [ 39 , 40 ] .
rather , sister chromatid appear to synapse and be bind by sycp1 along their ax .
rec8 mutant do not progress to diplonema or metaphase i .
double mutant analysis indicate that rec8 be epistatic to trip13 .
a in the spo11 and mei1 experiment , histology of testis deficient for both rec8 and trip13 resemble the rec8 mutant , with no evidence of progression to metaphase i that occur in trip13gt / gt mouse ( figure 3l and 3m ) .
immunocytological analysis of spread chromosome show a failure of homologous chromosome synapsis in both the rec8 − / − and rec8 − / − trip13gt / gt spermatocyte , a previously report for rec8 mutant ( figure 5d and 5e ) [ 39 , 40 ] .
although subsequent report indicate otherwise [ 10 , 12 ] , deletion of pch2 in yeast be originally report to alleviate meiotic arrest cause by deficiency for the meiosis - specific reca homolog dmc1 [ 8 ] .
to investigate this relationship in mouse , we construct animal doubly mutant for trip13 and dmc1 .
a in dmc1 − / − mouse , in which spermatocyte undergo meiotic arrest from defective dsb repair and fail chromosome synapsis [ 16 ] , spermatogenesis in dmc1 − / − trip13gt / gt testis be uniformly arrest at the point where spermatocyte contain chromatin characteristic of zygonema / pachynema ( figure 3n ) .
immunocytological analysis indicate that both dmc1 − / − and dmc1 − / − trip13gt / gt chromosome have extensive asynapsis compare to trip13gt single mutant ( figure 5f – 5h ) , and all have persistent rad51 / dmc1 focus and phosphorylated h2ax ( γh2ax ; figure 5i – 5l ) , confirm that dmc1 be epistatic to trip13 .
doubly mutant female have residual ovary , phenocopying dmc1 − / − and trip13gt / gt single mutant ( unpublished data ) .
meiotic defect in trip13gt / gt oocyte be dsb - dependent
epistasis analysis of female be insightful with respect to the cause of arrest in trip13 mutant .
both mei1 − / − / trip13gt / gt and spo11 − / − / trip13gt / gt female have ovary with numerous follicle , identical to mei1 and spo11 single mutant ( figure 3o – 3r ) .
thus , spo11 and mei1 be epistatic to trip13 in oogenesis , just a they be to dmc1 [ 13 , 41 ] .
this demonstrate that oocyte loss in trip13gt / gt female be dependent on dsb formation .
in conjunction with the immunohistochemical data , these data provide strong evidence that meiotic arrest in trip13 mutant mouse be due to defect in dsb repair .
a expect , ovary of rec8 trip13 double mutant be devoid of oocyte a be those from either single mutant ( figure 3b , 3 , and 3t ) .
discussion
genetic experiment in s. cerevisiae provide evidence that the pachytene checkpoint monitor and respond to recombinational dsb repair and synapsis independently .
wu and burgess conclude that the repair checkpoint be rad17 - sae2 dependent , while the synapsis checkpoint be pch2 - zip1 dependent [ 12 ] .
of these four gene , sae2 and zip1 do not have clear mammalian orthologs ( although sycp1 may be a functional ortholog of zip1 ) , and mutation of the mouse rad17 ortholog , rad1 , presumably cause embryonic lethality [ 42 ] .
thus , mutational analysis of mouse pch2 ( trip13 ) , which be also critical for the synapsis checkpoint in c. elegans [ 2 ] , be the best remaining option to evaluate potential functional conservation in mammalian meiotic checkpoint control .
our result demonstrate that in mouse , the primary meiotic function of trip13 be in recombination itself .
we find no evidence that it be involve in pachytene checkpoint control .
our data suggest that while recombination event destine to be resolve a co can proceed normally in trip13 mutant , dsbs that enter the nco repair pathway be incompletely resolve or process inefficiently .
this hypothesis be compatible with current knowledge of meiotic recombination pathway .
in s. cerevisiae , co and nco pathway be distinct [ 43 ] ; they have different recombination intermediate , and be dependent upon different protein [ 44 , 45 ] .
mouse also appear to have independent co versus nco recombination pathway [ 46 ] .
a in yeast , both require spo11 - induce break , but only the co pathway require mlh1 .
both type of recombinant product be form by mid - late pachynema .
another possibility be that the recombination defect be a result of defective intersister recombination .
however , this type of dsb repair be suppress in meiotic cell .
ablation of rad54 , which mediate intersister recombination in yeast , do not significantly disrupt meiosis in either yeast or mouse [ 47 , 48 ] .
interestingly , rad54 - deficient spermatocyte display abnormal persistence of rad51 focus on pachytene chromosome , similar to those in trip13 mouse , but there be no deleterious effect on meiotic progression or fertility [ 49 ] .
data from bud yeast also indicate that pch2p function in recombination .
deletion of pch2 delay meiotic progression by ∼ 2 h in sk1 yeast , and cause a minor decrease in ascus formation [ 50 ] .
dsbs persist > 2 h longer in pch2 δ yeast than in wild type , and hyperresection of dsbs in dmc1 δ pch2 δ double mutant be low than in dmc1 δ cell [ 10 ] .
additionally , it be report that pch2 δ yeast have a meiosis i delay dependent on the rad17 – sae2 checkpoint that monitor recombination intermediate [ 12 ] .
however , the exact role of trip13 ( or pch2 ) in recombination be unclear .
because synapsis occur in trip13 - deficient spermatocyte and be dependent on dsb formation ( activity of spo11 and mei1 ) , we suggest that trip13 function after homology recognition and strand exchange , and that recombination event enter the co repair pathway be either complete or nearly so ( because oa treat result in bivalent chromosome ) .
one possibility for trip13 ′s role in recombination be that it be directly involve in a step specific to resolution of nco recombination intermediate .
another possibility be that trip13 be require for disassembly of nco recombinational repair complex [ 51 ] contain those protein that persist abnormally on trip13gt / gt pachytene chromosome .
notably , trip13 have two putative atpase domain , a signature of aaa - atpase clpa / b chaperone that perform protein or protein / dna complex disassembly [ 52 ] .
these potential recombination role might not be limit to meiosis , since trip13 be widely transcribe and the mutant animal exhibit developmental defect .
finally , trip13 might play an indirect role , such a provide a “ licensing ” signal for the resolution of nco intermediate and completion of meiosis .
regard the cause of cell death in trip13 mutant , our data indicate that this be trigger by defective dsb repair rather than asynapsis .
we base this conclusion on two observation : ( 1 ) oocyte elimination be dependent upon dsb formation and ( 2 ) synapsis be normal in spermatocyte of adult testis .
indeed , this mutant be unique in that recombination defect occur in the absence of asynapsis ( e.g. , a in dmc1 knockout ) .
thus , the trip13 mutant provide the first evidence that unrepaired dna damage alone can trigger the mammalian pachytene checkpoint response .
furthermore , our result allow u to conclude that oocyte and spermatocyte share a similar , if not identical , dna damage pachytene checkpoint that be decouple from a synapsis checkpoint .
interestingly , we find that oa treatment of trip13gt / gt spermatocyte could propel them into mi , despite a report that the same do not occur when wild - type pachytene spermatocyte be treat with the dsb - induce agent gamma radiation or etoposide [ 53 ] .
it be possible that the nascent induction of dsbs in pachynema evoke a checkpoint response that can not be bypass by oa , whereas the post-strand invasion lesion in trip13 - deficient spermatocyte do not .
trip13 be originally discover to be an interactor with rat thyroid receptor beta ( thrb ; [ 54 ] ) , but the relationship between thrb and trip13 in meiosis be unknown .
interestingly , we observe that thrb be distribute diffusely throughout wild - type spermatocyte nucleus but be exclude from the xy ( sex ) body ( unpublished observation ) , a compartmentalize nuclear domain begin in pachynema , in which the sex chromosome become heterochromatinized and transcriptionally silence in the process of msci [ 55 ] .
however , the xy body appear intact in most mutant spermatocyte upon probe with several marker of xy heterochromatinization ( unpublished observation ) .
consider that thrb knockout mouse be viable and fertile [ 56 ] , the functional relationship between trip13 and it receptor thrb in meiosis be unclear .
give the high similarity of pch2 orthologs throughout the eukaryotic world , one or more essential function of this protein must be conserve .
since trip13 do not exhibit checkpoint function in mouse , we surmise that the trip13 / pch2 ancestral protein have a function in recombination that persist to the present .
notably , a. thaliana do not appear to have a meiotic checkpoint activity that eliminate mutant meiocytes in a manner analogous to organism such a mouse , bud yeast , and female drosophila [ 11 , 57 ] , and mammalian trip13 be more similar to arabidopsis pch2 than the fly or worm protein ( figure 1a and s1 ) .
the unusual relatedness between mammalian and plant pch2 may therefore be attributable to both the presence of a common conserve function ( namely recombination , although the role of pch2 in plant have yet to be determine ) , and the absence of checkpoint function .
nevertheless , the evolutionary relationship between animal , fungi , and plant ( which be discordant with pch2 sequence phylogeny ) do not allow parsimonious model address the point in time that checkpoint function in pch2 be gain or lose .
it be possible that it checkpoint function evolve independently in worm and budding yeast .
the picture will become clear a the function of pch2 in other organism be elucidate .
the nature of the synapsis checkpoint in male mouse remain unidentified .
one possible candidate be dot1 ( pch1 in yeast ) , a histone methyltransferase silencing factor that be require for pachytene arrest of zip1 and dmc1 mutant in yeast [ 58 ] , and for prevent rad54 - mediate recombinational dsb repair between sister chromatid .
however , dot1 act upstream of pch2 .
give that trip13 do n't have checkpoint function in mouse , a potential role for mammalian dot1 in the pachytene checkpoint be dubious but await investigation .
recently , it be show that the trp53 homolog trp63 be require for dna damage – induce death of dictyate - stage primordial oocyte , lead to the suggestion that it be involve in monitor genome integrity [ 59 ] .
however , this activity occur subsequent to a pachytene checkpoint .
a allude to earlier , a complicate problem for study potential meiotic checkpoint gene in mouse be that a in yeast , such gene often have mitotic function ( such a rad24 [ 7 ] ) , and their ablation can cause lethality [ 42 ] .
unless mammalian pachytene checkpoint component have orthologs with similar function in organism such a yeast , their identity be likely to remain elusive .
material and method
pcr analysis of trip13 cdna .
trip13 be amplify from sample of clontech 's mouse multiple tissue cdna panel i ( http://www.clontech.com ) , use the follow primer : 5 ′ - gcaccattgcacttcacatc - 3 ′ ( trp3 - 6f ) and 5 ′ - tgaccatcagactgtcgagc - 3 ′ ( trp3 - 6r ) .
these primer correspond to exon 3 and 6 , respectively , and amplify a 330 - bp cdna product .
the cdna in this panel be equalize to allow quantitative analysis by rt - pcr .
generation of trip13 - deficient mouse .
the mouse embryonic stem cell line rrb047 ( strain 129 / ola ) contain a gene trap insertion in trip13 be obtain from baygenomics ( http://www.baygenomics.ucsf.edu/ ) .
the gene - trap vector use to create this line , pgt1lxf , be design to create an in - frame fusion between the 5 ′ exon of the trap gene and a reporter , βgeo ( a fusion of β - galactosidase and neomycin phosphotransferase ii ) .
the gene - trap locus create a fusion transcript contain exon 1 – 3 of trip13 and βgeo .
to identify the exact insertion site within intron 3 , pcr be perform use one primer within the gene trap vector , and the other primer at various position in intron 3 point towards the 3 ′ end of the gene .
product from a productive reaction be sequence , reveal that the insertion site be 445 bp into intron 3 .
genotyping of mouse .
three primer be use to distinguish wild - type and mutant allele of trip13 : primer 1 , 5 ′ - cgtcgctccattgctttgtgc - 3 ′ ; primer 2 , 5 ′ - agtagtggtacactgtatttttgctttcattga - 3 ′ ; and primer 3 , 5 ′ - gtagatcccggcgctcttaccaa - 3 ′ .
primer 1 and 2 be locate upstream and downstream , respectively , of the gene trap insertion within the intron 3 .
primer 3 correspond to pgtlxf sequence .
primer 1 and 2 amplify a 700 - bp band from a wild - type allele ; primer 1 and 3 amplify a 540 - bp fragment from a mutant allele .
separate reaction be use to assay the presence or absence of each amplicon from a dna sample .
the cycling condition be : 94 °c 2 min ; 35 cycle of 94 °c 30 s , 57 °c 45 s , and 72 °c 50 s ; and 72 °c 2 min .
rt - pcr .
total rna be isolate from adult testis with the rneasy mini kit ( qiagen , http://www.qiagen.com ) , and 4.0 μg be oligo dt – prim and reverse - transcribe with superscript ii ( stratagene , http://www.stratagene.com ) .
the entire trip13 protein - cod sequence be amplify with primer 5 ′ - atggacgaggcggtg - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - tcaaacataagctgaaagtt - 3 ′ .
the cycling condition be : 94 °c 2 min ; 94 °c 30 s , 55 °c 45 s , and 72 °c 80 s for 35 cycle ; and 72 °c 2 min .
the primer for amplify the med31 coding sequence a control be : 5 ′ - atggccgcggccgtcgctatgg - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - tcatttccctgctgtgttattctgctgctgctgc - 3 ′ .
the cycling condition be : 94 °c 2 min ; 94 °c 30 s , 55 °c 30 s , and 72 °c 35 s for 35 cycle ; and 72 °c 2 min .
development and purification of chicken antibody .
a peptide correspond to amino acid 25 – 40 of trip13 , vlqrsgstakkedik , be conjugate to klh and use to immunize chicken ( do by sigma genosys , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) .
polyclonal igy be isolate from egg with the eggcellent chicken igy purification kit ( pierce , http://www.piercenet.com ) .
igy antibody be then affinity purify use the immunize synthetic peptide .
western blotting .
50 μg of testis extract in ripa buffer be separate by 8 % sd - page and electrotransferred onto a pure nitrocellulose membrane ( bio - rad , http://www.biorad.com ) .
the membrane be incubate with a polyclonal rabbit anti-human trip13 antibody ( 18 - 003 - 42687 ; genway , http://www.genwaybio.com ) .
accord to the manufacturer , the immunogen be a synthetic peptide embed in sequence we deduce to correspond to exon 3 .
binding be detect by chemiluminescence ecl kit ( pierce ) use a rabbit anti-chicken igg horseradish peroxidase conjugate ( pierce ) .
histological analysis .
testis or ovary be fix in bouin 's , embed in paraffin , section at 6 μm , and stain by hematoxylin and eosin .
antigen retrieval for immunohistochemistry of testis section be a describe [ 60 ] .
oocyte and follicle number be count a describe [ 61 ] .
only follicle contain an oocyte with a clearly visible nucleus be score .
immunocytochemistry .
immunolabeling of surface - spread spermatocyte and oocyte be perform a describe [ 39 , 62 ] .
to reach conclusion on the pattern of staining for various protein , 30 ( unless otherwise indicate ) well - spread nucleus of particular meiotic stage be first identify under the fluorescent microscope on the basis of sycp3 or stag3 staining , then image at both appropriate wavelength to determine the pattern of second protein with focal pattern such a rad51 or rpa .
unless otherwise indicate , the panel show in the figure be the exclusive or predominant pattern see .
the exception for this approach be in the case of stain for mlh1 or mlh3 plus rad51 ( in which case sycp3 or stag3 be not available to find chromosome core ) .
nucleus in this situation be identify first by mlh1 / 3 focus cluster , then image for both fluorescent wavelength .
primary antibody use in this study be a follow : mouse anti-scp3 ( 1 : 500 ; abcam , http://www.abcam.com ) ; rabbit anti-sycp1 ( 1 : 1,000 ; a gift from c. heyting ) [ 63 ] ; rabbit anti-rec8 ( 1 : 100 ; a gift from c. heyting ) ; rabbit anti-rad51 ( 1 : 250 , this polyclonal antibody recognize both rad51 and dmc1 ; oncogene research product , http://www.merckbiosciences.co.uk ) ; rabbit anti-γh2ax ( 1 : 500 ; upstate biotechnology , http://www.upstate.com/ ) ; rabbit anti-stag3 ( 1 : 1,000 ; a gift from r. jessberger ) ; rabbit anti-mlh3 ( 1 : 400 ; a gift from p. cohen ) ; mouse - anti-human mlh1 ( 1 : 50 ; bd bioscience , http://www.bdbiosciences.com ) ; rabbit - anti-topbp1 ( 1 : 100 ; a gift from j. chen ) [ 22 ] ; mouse - anti-ubiquityl - histone h2a ( 1 : 200 ; upstate biotechnology ) ; rabbit - anti-trf2 ( 1 : 500 ; a gift from t. de lange ) ; and rabbit - anti-blm ( 1 : 50 ; a gift from r. freire ) .
all secondary antibody conjugate with either alexa fluor 488 or 594 ( molecular probe , http://probes.invitrogen.com/ ) be use at a dilution of 1 : 1,000 .
all image be take with a 100 × objective lens under immersion oil .
metaphase i spermatocyte spread and oa treatment .
metaphase fix spermatocyte from 8 - mo - old trip13rrb047 homozygote , use 23 - d - old wild - type mouse a control , be prepare and stain with giemsa a describe [ 64 ] .
for oa treatment , cell be expose to 5 μm oa ( calbiochem , http://www.emdbiosciences.com ) for 6 h at 32 °c in a humidified environment of 5 % co2 before spread [ 65 ] .
these preparation be stain with dapi to visualize metaphase nucleus and chromosome .
phylogenetic analysis .
trip13 orthologs be identify by blastp search of genbank and other source provide gene model such a ensembl .
the select orthologs can be find in table s1 .
amino acid alignment be do with clustal w , use the default setting with and without remove the region outside of the aaa - atpase central domain .
the tree be construct by use the neighbor - join method with poisson correction .
the reliability of internal branch be assess by use 500 bootstrap replicates , and site with gap be ignore in this analysis .
neighbor - join search be conduct by use the computer program mega3 [ 66 ] .
supporting information
figure s1
depiction of conserve region of mouse trip13 and it pch2 orthologs
( 75 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
surface - spread chromosome immunolabeled with the indicate antibody and fluorophores
( 947 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
trip13 mutant spermatocyte that progress beyond pachynema have repair dsbs and form bivalents at metaphase i
( 1.5 mb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
source of trip13 amino acid sequence use to construct the phylogenetic tree in figure 1
( 22 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank p. burgoyne , p. cohen , e. alani , and p. moens for helpful discussion , r. viswanatha for helpful comment on the manuscript , w. pawlowski and t. pawlowska for input on the evolutionary tree of pch2 , r. freire and j. chen for antibody , m. jasin for spo11 − embryonic stem cell , and r. munroe for generate chimeric mouse .
we also thank an anonymous reviewer for point out that pch2p might be sense synaptic polymerization in yeast , not initiation .
abbreviation
co - crossover
dsb - double strand break
msci - meiotic sex chromosome inactivation
msuc - meiotic silencing of unpaired chromatin
nco - noncrossover
oa - okadaic acid
rt - pcr - reverse - transcriptase pcr
sc - synaptonemal complex
footnote
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on june 21 , 2007 ( doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.0030130.eor ) .
author contribution .
xl and jcs conceive and design the experiment and analyze the data .
xl perform the experiment .
jcs write the paper .
funding .
this work be support by nih grant gm45415 to j .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
genetic analysis of the role of bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 in limb patterning and skeletogenesis
abstract
bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) family member , include bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 , be express throughout limb development .
bmps have be implicate in early limb patterning as well a in the process of skeletogenesis .
however , due to complication associate with early embryonic lethality , particularly for bmp2 and bmp4 , and with functional redundancy among bmp molecule , it have be difficult to decipher the specific role of these bmp molecule during different stage of limb development .
to circumvent these issue , we have construct a series of mouse strain lack one or more of these bmps , use conditional allele in the case of bmp2 and bmp4 to remove them specifically from the limb bud mesenchyme .
contrary to early suggestion , our result indicate that bmps neither act a secondary signal downstream of sonic hedghog ( shh ) in pattern the anteroposterior axis nor a signal from the interdigital mesenchyme in specify digit identity .
we do find that a threshold level of bmp signaling be require for the onset of chondrogenesis , and hence some chondrogenic condensation fail to form in limb deficient in both bmp2 and bmp4 .
however , in the condensation that do form , subsequent chondrogenic differentiation proceed normally even in the absence of bmp2 and bmp7 or bmp2 and bmp4 .
in contrast , we find that the loss of both bmp2 and bmp4 result in a severe impairment of osteogenesis .
synopsis
a group of related signaling molecule call bone morphogenetic protein ( bmps ) be know to play important role in the formation of the structure such a the limb .
however , because different member of this group often have similar effect on target cell and be produce in overlap region of the embryo and hence can be redundant with one another , removal of any single member of the bmp family may not reveal the full extent of the role they play during development .
we have therefore improve on this type of analysis by remove pair of these factor ( bmp2 and bmp4 or bmp2 and bmp7 ) specifically from the develop limb .
although some have speculate that these signal play an early role in organize or “ pattern ” the different tissue of the limb , we find no evidence for such a role .
we do find , however , that a minimal amount of bmp signal be require to form cartilage , and hence some cartilaginous element fail to form in limb deficient in both bmp2 and bmp4 .
moreover , in the absence of these two bmp family member , there be a severe impairment in the development of bone tissue , result in severely deform limb .
this study give important new insight into the role of these bmp signal in make skeletal tissue in the embryo .
introduction
bone morphogenetic protein ( bmps ) be secrete signaling molecule belong to the transform growth factor β superfamily , originally identify on the basis of their ability to induce ectopic bone formation when implant within soft tissue in vivo [ 1 – 3 ] .
bmp family member be now know to play an extremely diverse set of role in a wide variety of developmental process [ 4 ] .
even in the context of the morphogenesis of a single structure , these molecule can play a series of quite divergent role .
for example , during limb development , bmps have be postulate to act sequentially in multiple distinct aspect of patterning , cell type specification , and differentiation of various tissue , particularly of the skeleton .
the early step of limb development in which bmp signaling have be implicate be the establishment of the anterior - posterior limb axis .
difference in anterior - posterior pattern be instruct a a grade response to sonic hedghog ( shh ) signaling emanate from the posterior margin of the limb bud [ 5 ] .
it have remain controversial , however , whether this response be direct or indirect .
if indeed the long - range effect of shh be indirectly mediate by local production of secondary signal , the lead candidate have be two member of the bmp family , bmp2 and bmp7 .
both be express in a broad domain than shh in the early posterior limb bud mesenchyme [ 6 , 7 ] , although bmp7 also have a second , weak domain of expression in the anterior limb bud mesenchyme .
bmp2 [ 8 ] and bmp7 [ 7 ] can be induce by ectopic shh and their expression be greatly diminish in the absence of shh activity [ 9 ] .
bmp2 and bmp7 be thus secondary signal produce in response to shh activity .
moreover , bmp signaling have a weak ability to posteriorly polarize the limb in ectopic grafting experiment [ 10 ] , an activity enhance by prior low - level exposure to shh [ 11 ] .
it remain unclear , however , whether bmp2 and bmp7 activity be require endogenously for anterior - posterior limb patterning by shh .
bmp2 mutant embryo die too early to assess their limb phenotype .
a target deletion of bmp7 have be make , and bmp7 - deficient embryo display hindlimb polydactyly with incomplete penetrance but otherwise phenotypically normal limb [ 12 , 13 ] .
nonetheless , bmp7 knockout mouse do not show any defect in limb polarity .
however , a redundant function in anterior - posterior patterning with bmp2 remain a possibility .
in addition to bmp2 and bmp7 , a third member of this family that be closely relate to bmp2 , bmp4 , be also express in the early limb bud .
like bmp7 , it be express in both the anterior and posterior margin of the limb bud mesenchyme [ 4 , 14 ] ; however , it do not appear to be induce by shh signaling , nor do it expression change in shh - deficient limb bud .
thus , bmp4 be not a candidate for a secondary signal downstream of shh in early patterning .
however , all three of these molecule , bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 , have be suggest to act in a second distinct phase of limb patterning , when digit identity be establish downstream of early patterning event .
in the vertebrate limb , each digit can be uniquely identify base on it size , length , number of phalanx , and location within the autopod .
a a consequence of the initial establishment of anterior - posterior position information within the limb by shh and / or bmp signaling , the interdigital mesenchyme of the hand plate become specified in a grade manner .
grafting and extirpation experiment have show that it be this polarize interdigital tissue which direct digit morphology [ 15 ] .
bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 be all express in the interdigital mesenchyme [ 4 , 14 ] , and experiment inhibit bmp signaling in this tissue suggest that differential level of bmps in the interdigital mesenchyme might be the relevant factor direct digit morphology [ 15 ] .
a note above , bmp7 - deficient embryo produce mostly normal limb , and mouse harbor a conditional deletion of bmp4 in the limb bud mesenchyme also do not show evidence of anterior digit transformation [ 16 ] , a would have be predict if bmp4 act a an interdigital regulator of digit morphology .
in the light of these observation , it would seem unlikely that quantitative difference in level of interdigital bmp signal be responsible for establish digit identity , although redundancy between bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 in this role remain a possibility .
a third aspect of limb patterning in which bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 have be implicate be in the apoptotic death of the interdigital tissue .
for example , ectopic application of bmp antagonist demonstrate that bmp signaling be necessary for this process , and in it absence , webbing occur [ 17 – 19 ] ) .
bmp activity also play an indirect role in limb patterning a a key component of a feedback loop between shh production in the posterior limb bud and fibroblast growth factor production in the overlie apical ectodermal ridge ( aer ) .
shh activity lead to the upregulation of the bmp antagonist gremlin in the mesenchyme [ 20 , 21 ] .
this , in turn , prevent bmps from downregulating fibroblast growth factor ( fgf ) production in the aer [ 17 , 22 ] and maintain the integrity of the aer itself [ 23 ] .
fgf signaling feed back to maintain shh production in the posterior mesenchyme [ 8 , 24 ] .
thus , conditional removal of bmp4 activity from the posterior limb mesenchyme result in a persistence of the aer , expand shh signaling , and consequent preaxial and postaxial polydactyly [ 16 ] .
at late stage of limb development , bmp activity be also believe to play critical role in skeletogenesis .
activation and dominant - negative experiment in the chick have show that signal through the bmpr - ib receptor be necessary and sufficient for cartilage condensation in chick [ 25 ] .
likewise , conditional knockout of bmpr1a and bmpr1b block all chondrogenic differentiation in the mouse limb bud [ 26 ] .
similarly , when noggin , a potent bmp inhibitor , be introduce in early stage chick limb bud prior to skeletogenesis , mesenchymal condensation do not take place [ 27 , 28 ] .
take together , these study strongly implicate bmp signaling a necessary for mesenchymal condensation and the initiation of chondrogenesis .
however , the phenotype in these experiment be severe , cause either global chondrogenesis or absence of chondrogenesis , in the gain - and loss - of - function experiment , respectively .
these severe defect during the early stage of skeletogenesis preclude investigation of any specific role for bmps in late event in cartilage differentiation , bone formation , and bone metabolism [ 29 ] .
conversely , removal of individual ligand such a bmp4 [ 16 ] or bmp7 [ 12 , 13 ] have not display defect in skeletal differentiation , presumably due to functional redundancy .
to gain further insight into the potential role of bmp signaling in vertebrate limb patterning and skeletogenesis , we have produce mouse simultaneously lack bmp2 and bmp4 activity or bmp2 and bmp7 activity in the limb mesechyme during limb development .
since bmp2 and bmp4 mutant be both lethal early in embryogenesis [ 30 , 31 ] , we use conditional allele of both these gene .
the conditional allele be delete early in limb development through the action of a cre - recombinase transgene express under the control of the prx1 enhancer [ 32 ] .
neither limb deficient in bmp2 and bmp7 nor those deficient in bmp2 and bmp4 have defect suggestive of loss of anterior - posterior patterning information , argue against these factor act a secondary signal downstream of shh or act a interdigital determinant of digit identity .
the bmp2 / bmp4 double mutant do display a loss of posterior digit with a broad posterior hand plate , suggestive of a block in the chondrogenic condensation of the posterior digit ray , rather than a change in anterior - posterior digit identity .
at late stage , the combine activity of neither bmp2 and bmp4 nor of bmp2 and bmp7 be require for chondrogenesis .
osteogenesis be also initiate properly in the absence of these pair of factor .
however , at late stage , the combine loss of bmp2 and bmp4 evidently become limiting , and osteogenesis cease .
a all prior report manipulation of the bmp pathway during skeletal development either result in a block at the first stage of chondrogenesis or allow complete skeletal formation , this be the first demonstration of a requirement for bmp activity in osteogenic differentiation .
result
to investigate the role of bmp signaling at various stage of limb patterning and skeletogenesis , we construct a series of mouse deficient singly or in combination in the ability to produce bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 .
bmp7 - deficient mouse ( kindly provide by dr. liz robertson ) survive until birth .
however , bmp2 and bmp4 be both require for viability early in embryonic development [ 30 , 31 ] .
we therefore construct a conditional allele of bmp2 , introduce loxp site flank exon 3 .
we obtain a conditional allele of bmp4 , in which exon 4 be flank by loxp site , from dr. holger kulessa and dr. brigid hogan [ 16 ] .
both of these allele would be expect to result in null allele follow recombination ( see material and method for detail ) .
to conditionally inactivate bmp2 and bmp4 in the limb , we use a well - characterize transgene in which cre - recombinase be express under the control of the prx1 limb enhancer [ 32 ] .
this transgene express cre very early in limb development , result in complete recombination of floxed allele at early limb bud stage .
we verify the ability of prx1 : : cre to recombine the conditional bmp2 and bmp4 allele at early limb bud stage use in situ hybridization .
bmp2 be first express in the limb mesenchyme at embryonic day ( e ) 10.5 in the mouse ( figure 1a , asterisk ) .
by the time it expression be first detectable , the floxed bmp2 allele appear to be completely recombine in the limb mesenchyme , a whole mount in situ hybridization do not detect any mesenchymal bmp2 transcription ( figure 1b ) .
at e10.5 bmp4 be express in the mouse limb mesenchyme in two stripe at the anterior and posterior margin ( figure 1c , red arrow ) .
these expression domain be completely lose by e10.5 in the presence of the prx1 : : cre transgene ( figure 1d ) .
bmp2 and bmp4 be also express in the aer , where prx1 : : cre be inactive , and these domain of expression be not affect ( figure 1a – 1d , black arrow ) .
an allelic / nonallelic series of bmp - deficient limb
mouse be generate with limb deficient in bmp2 , bmp4 , or bmp7 , both bmp2 and bmp4 , or both bmp2 and bmp7 .
to obtain an initial indication of the range of phenotype produce in these animal , we first examine the limb skeleton of newborn animal .
bmp2 - deficient limb appear remarkably normal , both in skeletal pattern and in gross aspect of chondrogenesis and osteogenesis indicate by alcian blue / alizarin red staining .
the one notable defect in the appendicular skeleton of these animal be a characteristic malformation of the scapula ( figure 1 , red arrow ) .
bmp2 - deficient limb also exhibit 3 / 4 soft - tissue syndactyly with variable penetrance ( figure 2 ) .
mouse with limb deficient in bmp4 activity and the limb of bmp7 mutant mouse have both be previously describe .
a report [ 16 ] , in the absence of bmp4 activity , limb display a variable penetrance of preaxial and postaxial polydactyly , but otherwise , normal digit pattern and apparently normal skeletal differentiation ( figure 1g and 1o ) take place .
a previously describe , mouse homozygous for a null mutation in bmp7 [ 12 ] have no defect in the formation of the normal appendicular skeletal element ( figure 1h and 1p ) .
we do occasionally observe preaxial polydactyly in these mutant .
compound heterozygous mouse , with one functional copy each of bmp2 and bmp4 in the limb ( bmp2 + / c ; bmp4 + / c ; prx1 : : cre ) , show no effect on either limb patterning or skeletogenesis ( unpublished data ) .
similarly , limb skeleton of mouse in which both copy of the bmp4 gene and one copy of the bmp2 gene have be conditionally remove in the limb ( bmp2 + / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ) be phenotypically normal other than exhibit the variable penetrance preaxial and postaxial polydactyly see in mouse deficient in bmp4 activity alone ( figure 1j and 1r ) .
in contrast , mouse in which both copy of bmp2 and one copy of bmp4 have be remove ( bmp2c / c ; bmp4 + / c ; prx1 : : cre ) show more severe skeletal defect , include significantly thin skeletal element .
however , the digit pattern of those animal be completely normal ( figure 1i and 1q ) .
animal in which both copy of bmp2 and bmp4 be remove ( bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ) have extremely malformed limb ( figure 1k and 1 ) .
they display severely short and malformed stylopods ; one of the zeugopod element be almost always miss , and the remain one be so deform that it be difficult to identify the element correctly .
moreover , the joint articulation be defective such that zeugopod and stylopod element be fuse ( see below and figure s1a – s1c ) .
interestingly , the autopods be less affect than the proximal element .
nonetheless , the autopod element be significantly reduced in size , and strikingly the two posterior-most digit be missing in the forelimb of these animal .
simultaneous removal of bmp2 and bmp7 have far less of an effect than do removal of bmp2 and bmp4 activity .
compound heterozygous removal of bmp2 and bmp7 ( bmp2 + / c , bmp7 + / − ; prx1 : : cre ) and heterozygous removal of bmp2 with complete removal of bmp7 ( bmp2 + / c , bmp7 − / − ; prx1 : : cre ) be both completely wild - type in skeletal pattern and differentiation ( unpublished data ) .
mouse homozygous for removal of bmp2 and heterozygous for bmp7 ( bmp2c / c , bmp7 + / − ; prx1 : : cre ) display the same subtle scapular defect see in bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre mutant alone ( unpublished data ) .
in limb develop in the complete absence of both bmp7 and bmp2 activity ( bmp2c / c , bmp7 − / − ; prx1 : : cre ) , the last phalanx be miss from digit iii in the forelimb , and these limb display the same phenotype in the hindlimb with variable penetrance ( figure 1l and 1t , black arrow ) .
additionally , the fibula of these hindlimb be malformed and do not articulate with the femur at the knee ( figure 1t , thick red arrow ) .
they also display the same scapular defect see in bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse , and the overall size of the appendicular skeleton be slightly diminished .
however , skeletal differentiation appear normal in the limb of these animal .
soft tissue syndactyly observe in limb of mouse devoid of bmp2 and bmp4 activity
a note above , bmp2 - deficient animal display a variably penetrant 3 / 4 soft tissue syndactyly phenotype ( figure 2b ) .
in contrast , bmp4 - deficient mouse show no evidence of syndactyly ( unpublished data ) .
however , one of the striking defect observe in the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse be that in the newborn animal , the digit of both forelimb ( unpublished data ) and hindlimb show complete syndactyly ( figure 2d ; compare to wild - type , figure 2c ) .
to determine the origin of this defect , we examine embryonic limb at e15.5 , the stage when interdigital separation be normally take place ( figure 2e ) .
in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre limb , only the very distal tip of each digit be separate , with the autopod adopt the shape of a notch pallet ( figure 2f ) .
in wild - type development , the individual digit become free from one another through a process of interdigital apoptosis , observable by stain with acridine orange ( figure 2e and 2g , arrow ) .
interdigital apoptosis be dramatically reduce in the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre limb ( figure 2f and 2h , arrow ) .
( note that the strong acridine orange staining in figure 2h be not in the interdigital mesenchyme but rather be in the remnant of the cell of the aer [ red asterisk ] . )
another region of very prominent apoptosis in the wild - type limb bud be within the aer .
the aer be a specialize ridge of ectoderm run along the anterior - posterior axis at the distal margin of the early limb bud .
one of the phenotype characterize the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mutant be expansion of the aer ( see below ) .
moreover , in the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal , the aer be maintain as late a e15.5 , long after it have start to degrade in wild - type limb .
this can be see morphologically ( unpublished data ) or by stain for expression of aer - specific marker such a fgf8 ( figure 2i and 2j ) .
the aer display intense staining with acridine orange , tunel , or other marker for apoptosis at every stage when it be present , reflect the rapid turnover of cell in this structure [ 33 – 35 ] .
the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mutant limb at e15.5 show strong acridine orange staining in the remnant of aer ( figure 2h , asterisk ) , in domain of the distal tip where the aer remain the long ( compare staining in figure 2f and 2j ) .
no significant difference be observe in the extent of apoptosis in the cell of the aer in early stage bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mutant embryonic limb ( figure s1d – s1g ) .
patterning defect in limb develop with reduce level of bmp signaling
bmp signaling have be propose to play several distinct role in limb patterning .
the first of these be in establish difference along the anterior - posterior axis of the limb downstream of sonic hedgehog ( shh ) .
shh signaling itself extend over a long range in the develop limb bud , base on both activation of target gene [ 36 ] and protein distribution [ 37 ] .
nonetheless , some model have suggest that the patterning effect of this morphogenic signal be mediate entirely [ 10 ] or in part [ 11 ] by bmp2 and bmp7 produce a secondary signal in response to shh .
we have remove both bmp2 and bmp7 activity in the early limb bud ( figure 1 ) , and moreover , there be no apparent upregulation of bmp4 expression in the posterior of these limb ( figure 3a – 3d ) .
the skeletal phenotype of mouse limb form in the absence of bmp2 , bmp7 , and both bmp2 and bmp7 be illuminate , a none of these exhibit significant digit pattern defect ( figure 1 ) .
while a distal phalanx be miss in the middle digit of the double mutant ( bmp2c / c , bmp7 − / − ; prx1 : : cre ) , this be not a phenotype consistent with a decrease or loss of a posteriorly derive polarizing activity .
indeed , the terminal phalanx form at the distal tip of each digit by a distinct mechanism , not dependent upon anterior - posterior patterning [ 38 ] .
these data strongly indicate that bmp2 and bmp7 be not require secondary signal for shh - mediate polarization of the digit along the anterior - posterior axis .
the lack of transformation in digit identity in the limb skeleton form in the absence of bmp2 and bmp7 activity also argue against bmp signaling be the critical instructive signal from the interdigital mesenchyme to the form digit .
while a distal phalanx be lose from the middle digit of the forelimb of these animal , these digit do not otherwise have a morphology consistent with their be transform anteriorly into digit 1 ( thumb ) .
indeed , in the hindlimb , where the penetrance of the phenotype be variable , the mutant middle digit be otherwise indistinguishable from wild - type , other than the presence or absence of this variable skeletal element .
in contrast to the propose role for bmps in anterior - posterior digit patterning , we obtain further support for the well - accept idea that a threshold level of bmp signaling be necessary interdigitally for program cell death to occur .
we observe syndactyly with variable penetrance in limb develop without bmp2 activity ( figure 2b ) , and nearly complete soft tissue syndactyly of all digit in limb deficient in both bmp2 and bmp4 ( compare figure 2c and figure 2d ) .
the one dramatic patterning defect we observe in our bmp deficiency series be the loss of posterior digit in forelimb deficient in both bmp2 and bmp4 ( figure 1k ) , also observe in early limb bud stain to show no expression of the condensation marker sox9 ( figure 3 ) .
to understand this phenotype , we analyze limb bud at various stage use a series of molecular marker .
by e11.5 , the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre limb bud be noticeably broad , expanded in the posterior relative to wild - type .
this correlate with an anterior expansion in shh expression ( figure 3e and 3f , red bracket ) and a concomitant expansion of the aer a visualize by fgf8 expression ( figure 3g and 3h , red bracket ) .
the expansion in shh expression can first be detect at e10.5 and persist at least until e12.5 , well after the time normal shh expression disappear at e11.75 ( figure 3l and 3p ) .
the expansion of the aer in the absence of bmp signaling may be understand on the basis of the feedback loop between the zone of polarizing activity ( zpa ) and the aer .
expression of several fgf gene [ 20 , 21 ] and maintenance of the aer itself [ 23 ] normally depend on bmp antagonism induce by shh .
thus , a decrease in bmp signaling expand and maintain the aer .
because shh expression be , reciprocally , support by fgf signaling from the aer [ 8 , 24 ] , this , in turn , feed back on the zpa , expand shh expression .
while this explain the broad hand plate of the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb bud , it be somewhat paradoxical in term of the skeletal phenotype , a a broaden autopod would normally be expect to result in the formation of extra digit ( polydactyly ) ( e.g. , figure 1g and 1o of this paper and [ 16 ] ) , not the loss of digit , a observe in the double mutant forelimb .
to examine the loss of digit more closely , bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb bud be examine during cartilage condensation phase of the digit ray at e12.5 .
in wild - type limb bud the condensation of all five digit can be visualize at this stage by in situ hybridization with a probe direct against sox9 , the early know chondrogenic marker ( figure 3i ) .
however , in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre limb bud at e12.5 , sox9 only detect primordium of the anterior three digit of the forelimb , indicate a failure in the formation of posterior digit at this early stage ( figure 3j ) .
gene such a msx2 ( figure 3n ) continue to be express throughout the posterior forelimb mesenchyme , indicate that the posterior forelimb tissue be viable at e12.5 in the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal .
msx2 be normally express in the non-chondrogenic interdigital mesenchyme at this stage ( figure 3m ) , a continuation of an early expression domain throughout the distal mesenchyme .
this expression of msx2 in the posterior of the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient forelimb reflect a failure of chondrogenesis in this region .
the loss of the posterior forelimb digit in these mouse thus do not appear to represent a decrease in polarize activity lead to a change in digit identity rather a consequence of the overall level of bmp signaling fall below a threshold for initiate chondrogenesis in the posterior of these forelimb .
the posterior of the hindlimb in the mutant , in contrast , appear to remain above this threshold , and more than five digit condensation form in the hindlimb bud ( figure 3k and 1 ) and no ectopic expression of msx2 be observe in the posterior ( figure 3o ) .
skeletal differentiation in limb develop with reduce level of bmp signaling
bmps be first discover in the context of their skeletogenic activity .
we therefore want to determine whether the loss of the specific bmp molecule under investigation here would perturb the skeletal differentiation pathway .
accordingly , skeletal preparation from each of the various mutant allele be subject to histological and molecular analysis .
the skeletal element that form in the absence of bmp2 , bmp4 , or bmp7 or bmp2 and bmp7 all undergo normal chondrogenesis and osteogenesis by a series of criterion .
all show normal staining with alcian blue ( for cartilage ) and alizarin red ( for mineralize tissue , see figure 1 ) .
most be also analyze in histological section stain with toluidine blue and show osteoid formation and bone matrix deposition ( compare figure s2a and s2e ; and unpublished data ) .
the skeletal element in these various bmp - deficient animal contain normal prehypertrophic chondrocytes express type ii collagen , hypertrophic chondrocytes express type x collagen , as well a the osteoblast express type i collagen , like their wild - type counterpart ( figure s2 ; compare figure s2f – s2h with figure s2b – s2d ; and unpublished data ) .
in contrast , however , limb completely deficient in both bmp2 and bmp4 activity show severe defect in skeletal differentiation .
bmp2 and bmp4 be not critical for chondrogenic differentiation
a note above , at e12.5 , chondrogenic condensation of the digit could be visualize in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre limb bud by in situ hybridization with a sox9 probe .
similar analysis at e10.5 and e11.5 demonstrate a relatively normal process of condensation of the proximal skeletal element ( figure s1h – s1m ) , despite the absence of detectable bmp2 and bmp4 transcript .
a show in figure s1n and s1o , expression of col ii , a chondrocyte marker , be observe in the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient cartilage ( figure s1o ) as early a e12.5 , similar to a wild - type control ( figure s1n ) .
similarly , at e13.5 , the entire limb skeleton could be visualize undergo chondrogenesis by alcian blue staining , albeit in a defective pattern , in the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb bud ( figure 4a and 4b and unpublished data ) .
a the cartilage element grow , a wave of hypertrophic differentiation occur from the center toward the distal end ( review in [ 39 – 41 ] ) .
histological examination of the humerus at e13.5 show that while chondrogenic differentiation have take place in the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient humerus , hypertrophic differentiation be delay ( figure 4c and 4d ) .
however , by e15.5 , hypertrophy be evident in these element a see by type x collagen expression ( figure 4e and 4f ) .
the hypertrophic cell in bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb also express late hypertrophic marker , such a osteopontin [ 42 ] ( unpublished data ) .
to examine whether the successful execution of chondrogenesis in the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb be a result of compensatory upregulation of other ostegenic bmps , we carry out in situ hybridization for bmp6 and bmp7 in these limb .
at e13.5 , we observe no increase in expression of bmp6 ( figure s1p – s1s ) or bmp7 ( compare figure 4h with figure 4g ) mrna in the mutant tissue compare to their wild - type counterpart
osteogenesis be initiate normally in bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb bud
bone formation first occur at the interface between the late hypertrophic chondrocytes and the surround perichondrium , a region identify a the bone collar .
we examine whether the osteogenesis program be initiate in the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb use several histological and molecular criterion , a describe below ( figure 5 ) .
adjacent to the hypertrophic cell , a bone collar be lay down normally in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 ( figure 5a and 5b , red star ) .
a can be see in sagittal section through an e15.5 humerus , the cell embed in the mineralize matrix express the osteoblast marker col i a normal ( figure 5c and 5d ) .
by e17.5 , the mineralized cartilage that make up the late hypertrophic zone of the growth plate normally undergo removal by osteoclast ( figure 5g , brown - stain cell , red arrow ) , result in the formation of a bone marrow cavity ( red arrow in figure 5e and 5i , see also figure 6 ) .
osteoprogenitor cell from bone collar region now populate this site and deposit osteoid , form the trabecular bone in the bone marrow cavity ( figure 6e , red arrow ) and cortical bone at birth ( figure 5i , asterisk ) .
in contrast , in e17.5 limb deficient in bmp2 and bmp4 , there be an overall delay in the normal endochondral process ( figure 5f ) .
while vascularization occur in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre forelimb , few osteoclast be recruit to the mineralize cartilage ( compare figure 5g and figure 5h , red arrow ) , result in a delay in bone marrow cavity formation in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 .
in fact , bone marrow formation and trabecular bone formation have not yet start at birth in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 ( figure 5j ) , and the morphology of bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre bone at birth be most similar to control embryo at e17.5 ( figure 5e ) .
to differentiate between a simple delay in bone formation in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 and the inability to form bone without these bmps , we perform histological analysis in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse up to 3 wks of age .
a show in figure 6a through 6e , in the control mouse , a bone collar be find adjacent to the zone of late hypertrophic chondrocytes at 1 wk ( figure 6a and 6b ) .
many osteoblast line the newly form cortical bone in the diaphyseal region ( figure 6c , blue arrow ) , and formation of a secondary ossification center have begin ( figure 6a , red star ) .
at 3 wks of age , formation of the secondary ossification center be complete ( figure 6d , red star ) , along with robust bone marrow formation ( figure 6d , bm ) and deposition of trabecular bone ( figure 6e , pale blue tissue mark by red arrow ) .
in stark contrast , bone formation be not observe in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 at 1 or 3 wks after birth ( figure 6f – 6j ) .
the appearance of the skeletal element in the double mutant remain similar to e17.5 structure see in wild - type limb ( figure 5e ) , and although there be a bone collar at the site of hypertrophic cartilage ( figure 6g ) , no bone marrow cavity , trabecular bone , or cortical bone be present ( figure 6f ) .
many osteoclast have be recruit to the remain mineralize cartilage and be actively resorb this tissue ( red asterisk , figure 6i ) , so that by 3 wks , all the mineralize cartilage in the diaphyseal region have disappear , leave a void where bone formation should have occur ( figure 6j , also see figure 6l and s3 ) .
this void be eventually invade by soft tissue and the adjacent muscle ( mark s and m , respectively , in figure 6j ) .
the resorption of bone at 3 wks of age be clearly visible in the proximal femur of mutant animal where a portion of that bone be missing ( figure 6l , black arrow ) .
the inability to complete osteoblast differentiation in the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse result in strikingly defective limb morphology at 1 wk of age ( compare figure s3g and s3h ) .
to determine if any osteoblast differentiation occur in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre forelimb , we examine osteoblast - relate gene expression ( figure 7 ) .
in the control mouse , osteoblast line the surface of trabecular and cortical bone express type i collagen , runx2 , and osterix gene at both 1 wk and 3 wks after birth ( figure 7a – 7d and 7i – 7l ) .
in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 , cell which be fibroblastic in appearance ( figure 6h ) be find adjacent to the mineralize cartilage surface .
these cell express amount of type i collagen and runx2 comparable to control osteoblast , but their expression of osterix , while noticeable at 1 wk , become almost undetectable at 3 wks ( figure 7e – 7h and 7m – 7p ) .
these result allow u to conclude that the fibroblast - like cell resident in the bone shaft ( figure 6h ) may be osteoprogenitor cell unable to differentiate into mature osteoblast in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 .
discussion
use a genetic approach to remove activity of different bmp gene during limb development , we have find that bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 either individually or in combination be not require for specification of normal digit identity .
however , bmp2 and bmp4 be require in concert to promote condensation of the posterior digit anlage .
we have also show that chondrogenesis can be initiate and chondrogenic differentiation will take place even in the absence of both bmp2 and bmp4 or bmp2 and bmp7 .
on the other hand , bmp2 and bmp4 together be require for completion of osteogenesis .
bmp signaling and pattern formation
it have be propose that bmp signaling may be involve in digit patterning a a secondary signal originate in the zpa [ 7 , 11 , 43 ] or a a late mediator of interdigital patterning information [ 15 ] .
in particular , bmp2 , a secrete factor that be induce by shh [ 8 ] in the posterior limb bud , have be suggest to act a a true morphogen secondary to shh signaling to properly pattern the limb digit .
however , inactivation of bmp2 during early limb bud development clearly do not cause any digit patterning defect .
bmps be know , in many case , to function redundantly [ 44 ] .
in consider potential secondary signal mediate zpa activity , the most relevant family member to consider be bmp7 a , like bmp2 ( and unlike bmp4 ) , it be positively regulate by shh signaling [ 7 ] .
however , bmp7 expression do not overlap with bmp2 in the early mouse limb bud [ 45 ] , and in any case , mouse in which we conditionally knock out bmp2 in the bmp7 − / − background do not show any obvious digit patterning defect other than the missing final phalanx in digit iii .
although still poorly understand , the final phalanx form at the tip of every digit through a process distinct from the more proximal phalanx [ 38 ] .
our data implicate bmp signaling in this process .
at late stage , bmp signaling have be suggest to play a role in mediate the transfer of positional information from the interdigital mesenchyme to specify the identity of the adjacent digit [ 15 ] .
application of the bmp antagonist noggin to the interdigital tissue at the time of digit condensation result in loss of phalanx and a resultant pattern that can be interpret a an anterior homeotic transformation in digit identity .
however , increase bmp concentration interdigitally with exogenous protein do not result in the reciprocal posterior transformation , and the noggin experiment can also be interpret simply a a block in the condensation of the primordium of distal phalanx when bmp activity be completely abolish [ 38 ] .
decrease the level of interdigital bmp signaling , without abolish it , provide an opportunity for differentiate between these model .
if bmp signaling be only require a a permissive factor for chondrogenesis , partial reduction in the level of signaling might have no effect .
however , if level of bmp signaling be instructive in term of digit identity , then a substantial decrease in the amount of bmp ligand present should cause transformation in digit identity .
this be not what be observe , either in limb deficient in both bmp2 and bmp4 or in those deficient in bmp2 and bmp7 .
it should be note that the interdigital expression domain form several day after recombination of the floxed bmp allele be complete .
moreover , there be no detectable compensatory upregulation of bmp7 in the interdigital mesenchyme of the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb ( compare figure 4g and figure 4h ) .
thus , we conclude that bmp signaling be not likely to be responsible in a quantitative fashion for the instructive role of interdigital mesenchyme in establish digit identity .
however , in the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre forelimb , there be a complete loss of posterior digit ray condensation , presumably because the total level of bmp signaling fall below the threshold for initiation of condensation , a previously see in case where bmp antagonist have be use [ 27 , 28 ] .
it be worth note that the defect in chondrogenesis see in the bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb be much more severe proximally than distally .
this be particularly significant because proximal element condense and differentiate before distal one .
thus , if the conditional allele be partially recombine at early stage and only completely recombine at late stage , it be the distal element , form after great recombination have take place , that should be more severely affect .
since it be the proximal element which be more severely affect , the explanation for the difference in severity must lie elsewhere .
this be most likely explain by compensation in the distal limb bud by bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 produce in the aer .
compensation by bmps in the aer also likely explain a difference see between the bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse in our experiment and a recently publish analysis [ 16 ] , which use the identical bmp4 conditional allele and prx1 : : cre driver .
the early report , like ours , describe preaxial and postaxial polydactyly .
however , they observe these phenotype with less variability and , moreover , describe multiple preaxial and postaxial ectopic digit , while we saw , at most , a single preaxial and postaxial digit .
the difference be that the mouse analyze in the previous report have one null allele and one conditional allele , while ours have two conditional allele .
their mouse , therefore , lose a half - dose of bmp4 from the aer in addition to complete loss in the mesenchyme , while our conditional allele be only recombine in the mesenchyme by the prx1 : : cre driver .
it be also possible that the difference in severity relate to the time require to recombine one a oppose to two floxed allele ; however , we do not favor this explanation a all detectable bmp4 expression be lose prior to any morphological difference between the mutant and wild - type limb bud .
finally , difference in genetic background could contribute to the difference a the prx1 : : cre line be outbred .
a final aspect of patterning previously associate with bmp signaling be interdigital apoptosis .
consistent with this , we see some syndactyly in the bmp2 - deficient limb .
the fact that this be variable , and limit to the 3 / 4 interdigit , imply that the threshold for induction of apoptosis be low enough that loss of bmp2 , bmp4 or bmp7 or bmp2 and bmp7 still leave sufficient bmp signaling for most interdigital cell death to occur normally .
however , loss of both bmp2 and bmp4 result in complete soft tissue syndactyly , i.e. , webbing between all the digit .
although bmp activity have be previously implicate in regulate interdigital apoptosis , this be the first genetic verification of their requirement for this process .
bmp signaling and skeletal development
a discuss above , our data indicate that threshold level of bmp signaling be require for initiate chondrogenic condensation , consistent with prior result [ 26 – 28 ] .
however , once chondrogenesis begin , cartilage differentiation can be sustain , albeit with some detectable delay , in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 or in the absence of bmp2 and bmp7 .
thus , the expression of either bmp5 , bmp6 , and bmp7 ( in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 ) or the expression of bmp4 , bmp5 , and bmp6 ( in the absence of bmp2 and bmp7 ) be sufficient to support mesenchymal condensation and chondrocyte differentiation in the develop limb .
in one set of previous study implicate bmp signaling in chondrogenesis , yoon et al. [ 26 ] show that if mouse lose both alk3 ( bmpria ) and alk6 ( bmpib ) , two of the three type i receptor use in bmp signal transduction , there be a dramatic decrease in the size of skeletal primordial due to a reduction of proliferation and increase in apoptosis .
the size of the skeletal element in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre limb be also decrease compare to those of control mouse , although not to the extent see in the double receptor mutant .
we do not know if reduce size of the skeletal element in our study be similarly due to reduce proliferation and increase in apoptosis , lack of replacement by bone , or a combination of these .
it be possible that a triple mutant remove bmp2 , bmp4 , and bmp7 activity would have a similar phenotype a the bmpria , bmprib double mutant , although these could also be compensate from other bmps .
we do know , however , that osteogenesis be defective in these mouse , although bone formation proceed normally in sibling retain one functional copy of either the bmp2 or bmp4 gene ( figure s4 ) , a it do in mouse completely deficient in bmp2 and bmp7 ( figure 1 and s2 ) .
the phenotype we observe in limb of bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse be similar to the phenotype report for osterix knockout mouse [ 46 ] , which exhibit severe defect in osteoblastic differentiation .
since we observe fibroblastic cell adjacent to mineralize cartilage that have characteristic of osteoprogenitor cell but fail to express osterix in the absence of both bmp2 and bmp4 , one important role of bmp2 and bmp4 during endochondral ossification may be to induce osterix gene expression in osteoprogenitors .
strikingly , however , we do observe osterix expression in the bone collar of e16.5 mouse miss functional copy of both the bmp2 and bmp4 gene ( k. tsuji and a. bandyopadhyay , unpublished data ) .
this suggest that vary level of expression from different bmp gene during preaxial and postaxial development result in fluctuation in total level of bmp signaling , which at distinct time be above or below the threshold for support osteogenesis .
while many osteogenic bmp molecule , apart from bmp2 and bmp4 , such a bmp5 , bmp6 , and bmp7 , be express during the endochondral process , our data suggest that these bmp molecule can not compensate for the combine loss of bmp2 and bmp4 in bone formation .
recent biochemical and genetic experiment have suggest that individual bmps have identical function .
bmp2 , bmp4 , bmp5 , bmp6 , and bmp7 can utilize the same type i ( alk2 , alk3 , and alk6 ) and type ii receptor ( bmp rii , actrii , and actriib ) [ 47 ] .
once the complex between ligand and receptor be form , bmp2 , bmp4 , bmp5 , bmp6 , and bmp7 direct the phosphorylation of the same set of bmp receptor – specific smads ( 1 , 5 , or 8 ) , and the signal that be transduce by each bmp appear to be identical in the skeletal target cell [ 48 – 51 ] .
bmps have also be show to activate mapk and akt pathway and , base on current publish information , each of the osteogenic bmps appear to have the same capacity to activate these signaling pathway [ 52 – 54 ] .
when this information be consider along with our observation that one allele of either bmp2 or bmp4 can rescue the osteoblast differentiation phenotype observe in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse ( see figure 1i , 1j , 1q , and 1r and s4 ) , we favor the hypothesis that bone formation require a threshold amount of bmp signaling which be not meet when both bmp2 and bmp4 be completely absent .
we can not , however , exclude the possibility that bmp2 and bmp4 have distinct function in osteoblastogenesis .
our analysis of skeletogenesis indicate that bmp2 and bmp4 be prerequisite for osteoblastogenesis while less important for chondrogenesis .
these study provide the first evidence link bmp2 and bmp4 with bone formation in an in vivo set where the precede event of chondrogenesis be not compromised .
material and method
reagent .
xylene , formamide , and acetic anhydride be purchase from fisher scientific ( http://www.fishersci.com ) .
alizarin red s , toluidine blue , paraformaldehyde , polyvinylpyrrolidone , proteinase k , rnase a , trna , and dithiothreitol be purchase from sigma ( http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) .
alcian blue 8gx be purchase from electron microscopy science ( http://www.emsdiasum.com ) .
dextran sulfate be purchase from pharmacia ( http://www.pharmacia.com ) .
generation of bmp2 and bmp4 conditional null allele .
mouse carry floxed bmp2 allele be available through a material transfer agreement between harvard university and wyeth pharmaceutical .
in these mouse , loxp site be integrate to excise the entire protein - cod region in exon 3 of the bmp2 gene .
generation of bmp4 conditional allele have be describe [ 16 , 55 ] .
the prx1 : : cre transgene have be describe [ 32 ] .
generation of bmp2 , bmp4 double conditional mouse and bmp2 conditional , bmp7 mutant mouse .
bmp2c / c animal be cross with bmp4c / c animal to generate bmp2c / + ; bmp4c / + animal .
these animal be cross with bmp2c / c or bmp4c / c animal to generate bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / + or bmp2c / + ; bmp4c / c animal , respectively .
bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / + or bmp2c / + ; bmp4c / c animal be cross with each other to generate bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c animal .
bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c female be cross with male bear prx1 : : cre transgene to generate bmp2c / + ; bmp4c / + ; prx1 : : cre animal .
bmp2c / + ; bmp4c / + ; prx1 : : cre male be cross with bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c female to generate bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal .
bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c mouse carry floxed allele of the bmp gene without prx1 : : cre be wild - type ( wt ) .
genotyping of animal be do by pcr analysis with the primer ( 5 ′ – 3 ′ ) gtgtggtccaccgcatcac ( ahp2 – 9 ) and ggcagacattgtatctctagg ( ahp2 – 35 ) for bmp2 and agactctttagtgagcattttcaac ( no. 79 [ order of primer try ] ) and agcccaatttccacaacttc ( no. 80 ) for bmp4 follow extraction of genomic dna from embryonic or adult tail .
for bmp2 , the floxed allele amplify a a 545 - bp product , while the wild - type allele amplify a a 474 - bp product .
for bmp4 , the floxed allele amplify a a 220 - bp product , while the wild - type allele amplify a a 180 - bp product .
protocol utilize for mouse experiment be approve by the harvard university institutional animal care and use committee ( cliff tabin # 02735 ) .
the strategy for generate a bmp2 conditional null in the bmp7 − / − background be similar to the strategy use for generate the bmp2 , bmp4 double conditional allele with three important difference .
first , the bmp7 − / − ( strain kindly donate by dr. liz robertson [ 12 ] ) be not a conditional allele but a null mutation .
second , bmp7 − / − mouse do not survive past birth due to kidney failure [ 12 ] and hence can not be maintain a homozygous for the null allele .
third , bmp2 and bmp7 be on the same chromosome ( chromosome 2 ) .
to obtain bmp2c / c , bmp7 − / − ; prx1 : : cre we cross bmp2c / c , bmp7 − / + female with bmp2c / + , bmp7 − / + ; prx1 : : cre male .
bmp2c / c , bmp7 − / − ; prx1 : : cre progeny be obtain at a rate slightly high than 1 in 16 .
for genotyping of bmp7 locus we use the follow set of primer : bmp7_exi_5 ′ ( 5 ′ – 3 ′ ) tcgcctgcagcaagtgacctcgggtc ; bmp7_exi_3 ′ ( 5 ′ – 3 ′ ) taggggtaggagaagccctgtccgtcc and beta - geo 5 ′ of 3 ′ ( 5 ′ – 3 ′ ) ctgcatacgcttgatccggctacctgc .
from a wild - type chromosome bmp7_exi_5 ′ and bmp7_exi_3 ′ amplify an approximately 423 - bp pcr product , while from the lacz insertion mutant this pair fail to amplify any product .
bmp7_exi_5 ′ and beta - geo 5 ′ of 3 ′ ( this primer be design from the beta - geo cassette ) amplify an approximately 1 - kb pcr product from the lacz insert chromosome .
skeletal analysis .
our protocol be an adaptation of the procedure describe [ 56 ] previously .
newborn and old animal be kill use carbon dioxide .
skin , viscera , and adipose tissue be remove within 2 h after death , and sample be fix in 95 % ethanol for 5 d .
sample be then place in acetone to remove residual fat for 2 d .
for e13.5 embryo , skin be not remove .
the dehydrate animal be stain with 0.015 % w / v alcian blue and 0.005 % w / v alizarin red in a 1 : 19 mixture of glacial acetic acid and 70 % ethanol .
the young animal be stain for 5 h at 37 °c and then overnight at room temperature , while the newborn be stain overnight at 37 °c follow by 2 d at room temperature .
the stain skeleton be keep in 1 % koh , with occasional change of solution , until clear .
the cleared skeleton be transfer into 100 % glycerol and photograph .
acridine orange staining for apoptotic cell .
a work stock of 5 mg / ml acridine orange be dilute 1 : 10,000 in pb .
dissect fresh embryo be transfer to the work solution of acridine orange and incubate for 30 min at 37 °c in the dark .
embryo be then wash twice in pb for 5 min and view with a fluorescence microscope .
whole mount in situ hybridization .
in situ hybridization staining on whole embryo be perform a describe [ 57 ] .
for section in situ hybridization , please see below .
histology , section in situ hybridization , and immunohistochemistry .
for histology and section in situ hybridization , sample be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde in pb at 4 °c overnight .
newborn and old animal be then decalcify in tris buffer contain 10 % edta and 7.5 % polyvinylpyrrolidone ( ph 7.5 ) at 4 °c for 3 wks .
sample be then dehydrate through a grade ethanol series , clear in xylene , and embed in paraffin .
8 μm section be collect and stain with hematoxylin and eosin ( h & e ) or toluidine blue follow standard procedure .
section in situ hybridization with digoxigenin label probe be perform a describe [ 57 ] .
section in situ hybridization with radiolabeled probe be perform a describe [ 58 ] with a small modification .
briefly , section be deparaffinized in xylene and rehydrated through a grade ethanol series .
section be postfixed in 4 % paraformaldehyde in pb at room temperature for 15 min , digest with 10 μg / ml proteinase k at room temperature for 10 min , and again fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde at room temperature for 10 min and acetylate in the solution contain 0.2 % hydrochloric acid , 0.1 m triethanol amine , and 0.25 % acetic anhydride at room temperature for 10 min .
section be then dehydrate in increase concentration of ethanol and air - dry .
hybridization be perform in a humidify chamber in a solution contain 50 % formamide , 10 % dextran sulfate , 1 × denhardt 's solution , 0.6 m sodium chloride , 0.01 m tris buffer ( ph 7.5 ) , 0.001 m edta , 0.05 m dithiothreitol , 0.25 % sd , 200 μg trna , and 35s - label crna probe at the final concentration of 5 × 106 cpm / ml at 55 °c for 16 h .
after hybridization , section be wash with a solution contain 5 × ssc and 10 mm dithiothreitol at 50 °c for 30 min , incubate in a solution contain 50 % formamide , 2 × ssc , and 10 mm dithiothreitol at 65 °c for 30 min , treat in a solution contain 10 μg / ml rnase a in tne [ 0.01 m tris buffer ( ph 7.6 ) , 0.5 m sodium chloride , and 0.001 m edta ] at 37 °c for 30 min and then wash with 50 % formamide , 2 × ssc , and 10 mm dithiothreitol at 65 °c for an additional 30 min follow by two wash with 2 × ssc / 10 mm dithiothreitol at 65 °c for 30 min , and 0.1 × ssc / 10 mm dithiothreitol at 65 °c for 30 min .
to visualize the signal , section be dip into ntb - 2 emulsion ( kodak , http://www.kodak.com ) and place at 4 °c .
after develop , section be counterstained with h & e .
the 35s - label crna probe be transcribe from plasmid encode type i collagen [ 59 ] , runx2 [ 60 ] , osteopontin [ 61 ] , and osterix [ 46 ] .
sense and antisense probe be synthesize from linearize plasmid use a riboprobe combination system ( promega , http://www.promega.com ) .
supporting information
figure s1
chondrogenic differentiation in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal
( a – c ) in bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb , there be only one zeugopod present , and it be often fuse with the stylopod .
all panel be from e17.5 bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo .
( a ) hematoxylin and eosin – stain section of the forelimb .
alcian blue – and alizarin red – stain skeleton show in ( b ) ( forelimb ) and ( c ) ( hindlimb ) .
black arrow show the fusion of the zeugopod and stylopod in bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb .
( d and e ) acridine orange – stain limb from e11.5 wild - type ( d ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo ( e ) .
( f and g ) acridine orange – stain hindlimb from e13.5 wild - type ( f ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( g ) embryo .
( h – m ) in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 , condensation begin in the limb normally .
whole mount in situ staining of sox9 mrna in embryonic limb bud from e10.5 ( h and i ) and e11.5 ( j – m ) embryo .
( h , j , and l ) from wild - type embryo , ( i , k , and m ) from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo .
( h , i , j , and k ) forelimb , ( l and m ) hindlimb .
( n and o ) in situ hybridization with col ii mrna probe of section derive from e12.5 wild - type ( n ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( o ) embryo .
( p – s ) bmp6 mrna expression be not increase in e13.5 bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre cartilage .
bmp6 in situ on sagittal section from wild - type ( q ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( s ) embryonic forelimb .
( p and r ) bright field image of ( q ) and ( s ) , respectively .
( 23 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
skeletal differentiation occur normally in absence of bmp2
( a ) toluidine blue – stain section of newborn femur from bmp2c / c animal .
( b – d ) marker analysis .
section of femur from bmp2c / c animal hybridize with col ii ( b ) , col x ( c ) , and col i ( d ) mrna probe .
( e ) toluidine blue – stain section of newborn femur from bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal .
( f – h ) marker analysis .
section of femur from bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal hybridize with col ii ( f ) , col x ( g ) , and col i ( h ) mrna probe .
( 15 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient limb skeleton be resorb
alcian blue – and alizarin red – stain skeleton of forelimb ( a – d ) and hindlimb ( e – f ) from 1 - wk - old ( a , b , e , and f ) and 3 - wk - old ( c and d ) animal .
( a , c , and e ) wild - type animal , ( b , d , and f ) bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal .
the limb of bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( h ) animal be severely defective compare to a wild - type ( g ) animal at 1 wk of age .
please note that the proximal part of the femur be present at 1 wk of age but miss at 3 wks ( refer to figure 6l ) .
( 12 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
osteogenesis occur in mouse lack three of four allele of bmp2 and bmp4 combine
toluidine blue – stain section of femur from adult control , bmp2c / + ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre , and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / + ; prx1 : : cre animal .
( 11 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank dr. andy dudley for his help in design mouse genotyping strategy .
we also thank jose rivera - feliciano and dr. douglas kim for helpful discussion .
we be immensely grateful to drs. brigid hogan and holger kulessa for their kind gift of the bmp4 conditional allele and drs. liz robertson and andy dudley for the bmp7 knockout allele .
we would like to acknowledge the help of dr. ernestina schipani and jan saxton for help with histology .
this manuscript be dedicate to the memory of dr. holger kulessa , whose effort contribute to the groundwork for this study and whose dedication and intense commitment to excellence in science be greatly miss .
abbreviation
aer - apical ectodermal ridge
bmp - bone morphogenetic protein
e - embryonic day
fgf - fibroblast growth factor
shh - sonic hedgehog
shh - sonic hedgehog
zpa - zone of polarizing activity
figure and table
figure 1
an allelic / nonallelic series of bmp - deficient limb
( a – d ) prx1 : : cre efficiently recombine bmp2 and bmp4 conditional allele in the limb .
bmp2 ( a and b ) and bmp4 ( c and d ) whole mount mrna in situ hybridization in the limb .
wild - type ( a ) and bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( b ) be forelimb from e10.5 mouse embryo .
mesenchymal expression [ asterisk ( a ) ] of bmp2 be abolish in bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo while the aer expression [ black arrow ( a and b ) ] of bmp2 persist .
note that pink staining in the central region of the limb bud in ( b ) be nonspecific background .
wild - type ( c ) and bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( d ) be forelimb from e10.5 mouse embryo .
mesenchymal expression [ red arrow ( c ) ] of bmp4 be abolish in bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo while the aer expression [ black arrow ( c and d ) ] of bmp4 persist .
( e – t ) depletion of bmp2 and bmp4 together cause severe limb skeletal defect .
( e – t ) whole mount skeleton from newborn animal stain with alcian blue and alizarin red .
( e – l ) forelimb , ( m – t ) hindlimb .
( e and m ) wild - type , ( f and n ) bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre , ( g and o ) bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre , ( h and p ) bmp7  − / − , ( i and q ) bmp2c / c ; bmp4 + / c ; prx1 : : cre , ( j and r ) bmp2 + / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre , ( k and s ) bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre , ( l and t ) bmp2c / c , bmp7 − / − ; prx1 : : cre .
thin red arrow in ( f ) , ( i ) , and ( l ) , defective scapula ; thick red arrow in ( t ) , failure of fibula to articulate with knee , and thick black arrow in ( l ) and ( t ) , miss phalanx in digit iii .
figure 2
depletion of bmp signaling cause interdigital syndactyly
( a – d ) forelimb of adult wild - type ( a ) and bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse ( b ) and hindlimb of newborn wild - type ( c ) mouse and newborn bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( d ) mouse .
the black arrow in ( b ) show soft tissue syndactyly in bmp2c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse .
( e and f ) wild - type and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre , respectively , show acridine orange – stain hindlimb of e15.5 mouse embryo .
acridine orange stain be in yellow .
( g and h ) enlarge view of select region from ( e ) and ( f ) , respectively .
black arrow in ( g ) and ( h ) show acridine orange – stain apoptotic cell in the interdigital mesenchyme , and asterisk in ( h ) show the remnant of the aer .
( i and j ) fgf8 mrna expression in the hindlimb of e13.5 wild - type ( i ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( j ) embryo .
the thick black arrow in ( j ) show fgf8 mrna expression .
figure 3
patterning defect in limb deficient of different combination of bmp molecule
( a – d ) bmp4 expression in limb bud from e11.5 wild - type ( a and c ) and bmp2c / c , bmp7  − / − ; prx1 : : cre ( b and d ) mouse embryo .
( a and b ) forelimb , ( c and d ) hindlimb .
( e – h ) shh ( e and f ) and fgf8 ( g and h ) expression in e11.5 forelimb and hindlimb , respectively .
( e and g ) wild - type embryo , ( f and h ) bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo .
( i – p ) sox9 ( i – k ) and msx2 ( m – o ) expression in e12.5 wild - type ( i and m ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse embryonic forelimb ( j and n ) and hindlimb ( k and o ) .
( l and p ) shh expression in e12.5 wild - type ( l ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( p ) embryonic hindlimb .
the red bracket in ( f ) and ( h ) show the broaden domain of expression of shh and fgf8 , respectively .
figure 4
chondrogenesis start and proceed normally even in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4
( a and b ) whole mount skeleton from e13.5 embryo that be stain with alcian blue .
( a ) wild - type embryo , ( b ) bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo .
black arrow in ( b ) show the fusion of the zeugopod and stylopod .
( c and d ) hematoxylin and eosin – stain sagittal section of humerus from e13.5 wild - type ( c ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( d ) embryo .
thick red arrow in ( c ) show the hypertrophic region .
( e and f ) sagittal section of wild - type ( e ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( f ) humerus from e15.5 embryo be hybridize with digoxigenin - label antisense rioprobes for colx .
( g and h ) sagittal section of forelimb from e13.5 wild - type and bmp2 , bmp4 – deficient embryo , respectively , stain with radioactive riboprobes for bmp7 mrna .
( g ′ ) and ( h ′ ) show the bright field view of ( g ) and ( h ) , respectively .
figure 5
in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 , osteogenesis begin during early embryonic development
( a – d ) sagittal section of forelimb from e15.5 embryo .
( a and b ) stain with toluidine blue .
( a ) distal ulna from wild - type embryo , ( b ) distal ulna / radius from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo .
mineralize cartilage be show by dark purple and osteoid be show by light blue ( red asterisk ) .
( c and d ) humerus section be hybridize with digoxigenin label riboprobe for coli .
( c ) section of wild - type humerus from e15.5 embryo , ( d ) from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre e15.5 embryo .
( e – h ) sagittal section of zeugopod from e17.5 embryo .
( e and f ) stain with toluidine blue while g and h be stain for trap ( brown stain , red arrow ) .
( e and g ) e17.5 proximal radius from wild - type embryo , ( f and h ) e17.5 proximal ulna / radius from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre embryo .
although vascularization occur in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 , few osteoclast be observe in the mineralize cartilage in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse .
please note all the panel other than ( g ) and ( h ) be photograph at × 20 , while ( g ) and ( h ) be photograph at × 40 .
( i and j ) section of newborn proximal radius ( i ) from control animal and newborn proximal ulna / radius ( j ) from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre animal be stain with toluidine blue .
red arrow show the bone marrow cavity in ( e ) and ( i ) .
note that bone collar ( red * ) form at the right time and place in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4 .
also note that since bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse occasionally have only one bone in zeugopod and the elbow joint be occasionally fuse , it be difficult to distinguish between the ulna and the radius .
figure 6
defect in bone formation in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4
toluidine blue staining of sagittal section of distal femur .
( a – e ) control femur at 1 wk ( a ) and 3 wks ( d ) of age .
box area in ( a ) be enlarge in ( b ) and ( c ) .
box area in ( d ) be enlarge in ( e ) .
blue arrow in ( c ) point to osteoblast cell line the surface of cortical bone .
pink arrow in ( g ) show similar cell to those in ( c ) in bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre femur .
red star in ( a ) and ( d ) mark the secondary ossification center .
pale blue – stain tissue in ( e ) , mark by red arrow , be trabecular bone .
bm , mark the bone marrow cavity in ( d ) .
( f – j ) bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre femur at 1 wk ( f ) and 3 wks ( j ) of age .
box area in ( f ) be enlarge in ( g ) , ( h ) , and ( i ) .
( a ) , ( d ) , ( f ) , and ( j ) be show with the same magnification .
note that there be defect in bone formation but no defect in osteoclast mediate bone resorption .
mineralize tissue in the mid shaft of femur be almost resorb at 3 wks .
( h ) fibroblast - like cell present in the bone shaft of bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse .
red star in ( i ) show the osteoclast invade the bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre femur at 1 wk of age .
s and m mark soft tissue and muscle in ( j ) , respectively .
( k and l ) three - wk - old wild - type ( k ) and bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre ( l ) hindlimb skeleton stain with alcian blue and alizarin red .
the black arrow show the missing part of proximal femur .
figure 7
osteoblast maturation be inhibit in the absence of bmp2 and bmp4
( a – d ) distal femur from control mouse at 1 wk of age .
( e – h ) distal femur from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse at 1 wk of age .
( i – l ) distal femur from control mouse at 3 wks of age .
( m – p ) distal femur from bmp2c / c ; bmp4c / c ; prx1 : : cre mouse at 3 wks of age .
in situ hybridization of early osteoblast differentiation - relate marker gene col i ( b , f , j , and n ) , runx2 ( c , g , k , and o ) and osterix ( d , h , l , and p ) .
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on november 6 , 2006 ( doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.0020216.eor ) .
author contribution .
ab , kt , bdh , vr , and cjt conceive and design the experiment .
ab , kt , kc , and bdh perform the experiment .
ab , kt , vr , and cjt analyze the data .
ab and kt write the paper .
funding .
this work be support by a grant from the national institute of health ( p01 dk56246 to cjt ) and by fund from the forsyth institute and harvard school of dental medicine ( to vr ) .
loss of skeletal muscle hif - 1α result in alter exercise endurance
abstract
the physiological flux of oxygen be extreme in exercise skeletal muscle .
hypoxia be thus a critical parameter in muscle function , influence production of atp , utilization of energy - produce substrate , and manufacture of exhaustion - induce metabolite .
glycolysis be the central source of anaerobic energy in animal , and this metabolic pathway be regulate under low - oxygen condition by the transcription factor hypoxia - inducible factor 1α ( hif - 1α ) .
to determine the role of hif - 1α in regulate skeletal muscle function , we tissue - specifically delete the gene encode the factor in skeletal muscle .
significant exercise - induce change in expression of gene be decreased or absent in the skeletal - muscle hif - 1α knockout mouse ( hif - 1α ko ) ; change in activity of glycolytic enzyme be see as well .
there be an increase in activity of rate - limit enzyme of the mitochondrion in the muscle of hif - 1α ko , indicate that the citric acid cycle and increase fatty acid oxidation may be compensate for decrease flow through the glycolytic pathway .
this be corroborate by a finding of no significant decrease in muscle atp , but significantly decrease amount of lactate in the serum of exercise hif - 1α ko .
this metabolic shift away from glycolysis and toward oxidation have the consequence of increase exercise time in the hif - 1α ko .
however , repeat exercise trial give rise to extensive muscle damage in hif - 1α ko , ultimately result in greatly reduce exercise time relative to wild - type animal .
the muscle damage see be similar to that detect in human in disease cause by deficiency in skeletal muscle glycogenolysis and glycolysis .
thus , these result demonstrate an important role for the hif - 1 pathway in the metabolic control of muscle function .
introduction
during exercise in normoxia , the partial pressure of oxygen in muscle tissue have be show to dip to as low a 3.1 mm hg , whereas in the capillary , it remain at 38 mm hg ( hoppeler et al. 2003 ) .
in order to maintain effort , skeletal muscle exertion must be able to rely on pathway design to help the tissue cope with oxygen stress after oxygen delivery capacity be exceed .
a switch between aerobic and nonaerobic metabolism during strenuous exertion require mechanism to adjust metabolic function , and this need be acute in extend exertion in skeletal muscle .
it be clear that the transcription factor hypoxia - inducible factor 1α ( hif - 1α ) be an essential factor in maintenance of atp level in cell ( seagroves et al. 2001 ) .
in fact , although hif - 1α be typically think of a act only during hypoxia , it loss have an effect on both normoxic and hypoxic atp level in a number of tissue type ( seagroves et al. 2001 ; cramer et al. 2003 ) , and this implicate the factor in regulation of metabolic function even during condition of normal physiologic oxygenation .
in skeletal muscle , signaling of fatigue have be study extensively , and signaling of exhaustion involve , to some degree , elevate systemic lactic acid , a by - product of the glycolytic pathway of metabolism ( myers and ashley 1997 ) .
thus , the glycolytic pathway be intrinsically involve in muscle function and fatigue , and this in turn be link to the response to hypoxia .
to understand how the primary hypoxia - responsive transcription factor control skeletal muscle function , we target mouse skeletal muscle for tissue - specific deletion of hif - 1α via the use of a conditionally target allele of the gene ( ryan et al. 2000 ; schipani et al. 2001 ) .
this mouse strain be cross into a strain transgenic for the skeletal - muscle - specific muscle creatine kinase ( mck ) promoter , which drive expression of the cre recombinase gene ( bruning et al. 1998 ; sauer 1998 ) .
we find that loss of the regulation of hypoxic response in muscle have a profound effect on the function of the muscle during exertion , with effect that mimic human metabolic myopathy .
result / discussion
in 4 - mo – old mouse with the skeletal - muscle hif - 1α gene knock out ( hif - 1α ko ) , the frequency of excision be evaluate through real - time pcr technique .
we saw deletion frequency consistent with those describe previously for this cre recombinase transgene ( bruning et al. 1998 ) with some variation in penetration ; mean frequency of deletion be 54.9 % , with the high frequency of muscle - specific deletion of hif - 1α be 72 % in the gastrocnemius of 4 - mo – old mouse homozygous for the loxp - flank allele ( table 1 ) .
this transgene be express at a low level in cardiac tissue , and cardiac deletion be detect ( table 1 ) ; however , none of the phenotype describe below be see in cardiac myocyte - specific deletion of hif - 1α ( figure 1a ) .
gross muscle section be evaluate histologically to evaluate both vascularization and fiber type ( table 2 and 3 ) , and ultrastructurally to determine number of mitochondrion ( figure 1b ) .
no change be detect in any of these feature in hif - 1α ko , except for a slight but statistically significant decrease in type iia fiber in the soleus muscle ( table 3 ) .
similar hematocrit and blood hemoglobin level be see in hif - 1α ko and wild - type ( wt ) mouse ( figure 2 ) .
a can be see in table 4 , significant change in hif - 1α – dependent gene expression occur in muscle during exercise , include change in gene involve in glucose transport and metabolism .
vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) , which increase vascular permeability , and glucose transporter 4 ( glut4 ) , the muscle - specific glucose transporter , show increase level in exercise and likely increase the availability of glucose to the muscle .
the muscle - specific form of phosphofructokinase ( pfk - m ) , phosphoglycerate kinase ( pgk ) , and lactate dehydrogenase - a ( ldh - a ) be also up - regulate at the mrna level by exercise , and this up - regulation be inhibit by the loss of hif - 1α , far demonstrate that hif - 1α be important for transcriptional response during skeletal muscle activity .
in table 5 , we show the change in enzymatic activity in a number of key glycolytic enzyme affect by deletion of hif - 1α .
a can be see from the data , several of the enzyme assay show a decrease in activity in response to exercise .
in particular , the activity of one of the key rate - limit enzyme , pfk , be significantly low follow exercise in hif - 1α ko compare to wt mouse , indicate that hif - 1α ko may have difficulty maintain optimal pfk activity .
the response of other glycolytic enzyme to exercise be fairly similar between wt mouse and hif - 1α ko .
these include no significant change in phosphoglucose isomerase activity and significant , yet similar , decrease in aldolase , glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase , and pgk activity .
an exception to this be that wt muscle be able to significantly increase pyruvate kinase ( pk ) activity ( see table 4 ; p < 0.05 ) .
ldh activity be also increase in the wt mouse , although the level do not reach statistical significance .
activity of both pk and ldh be not significantly change in hif - 1α ko muscle follow exercise .
increase activity of pk , and subsequently ldh , could be expect to lead to increase level of lactate in the wt mouse relative to hif - 1α ko .
in figure 3a , it can be see that the decrease in pfk activity in the hif - 1α ko be correlate with a trend approach significance ( p = 0.10 ) toward an increase amount of hexose monophosphates ( hmps ) , which be pre-pfk glycolytic metabolite , follow stimulation of the hif - 1α ko muscle .
this increase be not due to difference in glucose uptake , since animal of both genotype be able to significantly increase intramuscular glucose to a similar degree ( figure 3b ) .
consistent with decrease flow through the glycolytic pathway , however , the increase amount of hmps be correlate with increase muscle glycogenolysis ( figure 3c ) and increase depletion of phosphocreatine ( pcr ) ( figure 3d ) , with a resultant decrease in the pcr / atp ratio in hif - 1α ko muscle ( figure 3e ) , although there be only a nonsignificant drop in overall muscle atp concentration ( figure 3f ) .
intramuscular level of lactate do increase in both hif - 1α ko and wt mouse during stimulation , although lactate accumulation do not differ significantly between them ( figure 3g ) .
in order to evaluate whether these change have any effect on overall muscle force , we measure force and calcium release in isolate single fiber ; a can be see in figure 4a and 4b , there be no significant change in these parameter , indicate that the muscle can compensate at this level for the metabolic change induce by loss of hif - 1α .
give alter level of glycolytic throughput without significant change in intramuscular atp level , it be likely that there be increase activity of oxidative pathway in the hif - 1α ko muscle .
increase muscle oxidative activity be typical in patient with myopathy involve muscle glycolysis or glycogenolysis , include phosphofructokinase disease ( pfkd ) and mcardle 's disease ( vissing et al. 1996 ) .
we analyze the activity of citrate synthase ( c ) , a key allosteric enzyme of the citric acid cycle , in wt and hif - 1α ko muscle ( figure 5a ) , and find that it be up - regulate in hif - 1α ko .
c be a mitochondrial enzyme that respond to decrease in atp concentration allosterically , allow for increase oxidative activity in the mitochondrion .
in addition , significant up - regulation of the mitochondrial enzyme beta - hydroxyacyl coa dehydrogenase ( b - had ) be see in hif - 1α ko muscle ( figure 5b ) .
b - had be also affect by energy level in the cell , and decrease in nadh / nad + concentration ratio cause the enzyme to increase mitochondrial oxidation of fatty acid ( nelson and cox 2000 ) .
increase activity of oxidative pathway in the muscle should result in more rapid lactate clearance , a in fact occur in pfkd patient during exercise ; this phenomenon give rise to a “ second wind ” in these patient , and under some circumstance allow for an increase in exercise endurance ( vissing et al. 1996 ; haller and vissing 2002 ) , although this be dispute in one recent study ( haller and vissing 2004 ) .
this decrease lactate accumulation postexercise clearly occur in the hif - 1α ko , a can be see in figure 5c .
this systemically low level of lactate postexercise indicate that there may be a shift toward a more oxidative metabolism in skeletal muscle .
a mention above , patient with muscle glycolytic deficiency demonstrate both increase exercise - induce muscle damage and a “ second wind ” ; the latter phenomenon allow them to exercise for extend period of time at submaximal level .
this be think to be due to an increase in rate of oxidative atp production , and a decrease utilization of and need for muscle glycogen ( vissing et al. 1996 ; haller and vissing 2002 ) .
to assess whether this be also the case in the hif - 1α ko , both wt mouse and hif - 1α ko be subject to endurance test to assess muscle function .
to first determine whether hif - 1α ko be capable of extend activity during exercise , the animal be give a swimming endurance test .
a can be see in figure 6a , hif - 1α ko be capable of significantly long - duration swimming activity when compare to match wt control ( p < 0.05 ) .
further testing be do to determine the parameter of this increase endurance .
hif - 1α ko be run on an enclose treadmill , with a 5 ° incline and an initial velocity of 10 m / min , with an increase in velocity every 5 min .
in their first run , hif - 1α ko again have significantly great endurance , a show by their consistently long run time compare to wt control ( p < 0.01 , figure 6b ) .
a it have be show that muscle group and fiber respond differently to eccentric exercise ( i.e. , downhill running ) than to concentric exercise ( i.e. , uphill running ) ( nardone and schieppati 1988 ) , mouse from both genotype be run on a 10 ° decline with the same velocity and time parameter a in the uphill run .
eccentric exercise have be show to recruit primarily fast - twitch glycolytic fiber for contraction , a oppose to the traditional recruitment of slow , small , oxidative motor unit in concentric contraction , where animal with an increase capacity for muscle oxidation would be at an advantage ( nardone and schieppati 1988 ) .
now , the trend from swimming and uphill running test be reverse , with wt mouse able to run for a significantly long time than hif - 1α ko ( p < 0.05 , figure 6c ) .
within genotype , wt mouse run for significantly long time downhill than uphill ( p < 0.01 ) ; hif - 1α ko do the reverse , and run for significantly short time downhill than uphill ( p < 0.05 ) .
substrate utilization confirm the shift toward glycolytic fiber in downhill running ; both genotype have higher average respiratory exchange ratio ( rer ) value when run downhill compare with run uphill ( figure 6d and 6e ) .
pfkd and mcardle 's disease demonstrate significant myopathic effect in muscle , include soreness and cramping induce by bout of exercise .
after 1 d of recovery from endurance testing , hif - 1α ko have increase level of the mm isoform of creatine kinase in their serum ( unpublished data ) , indicative of skeletal muscle damage .
to far investigate this finding , mouse be run on a treadmill daily for 4 d .
by the second day , the trend for increase endurance in the hif - 1α ko be absent , and by the final day , hif - 1α ko be run for significantly short time than they have on the first day ( p < 0.01 , figure 7a ) .
in addition , a repeat measure anova perform on run time show that the response of the hif - 1α ko to the protocol be significantly different than that of the wt mouse ( p < 0.05 ) .
histological examination of gastrocnemius tissue follow 1 d of recovery reveal significantly great amount of muscle damage in hif - 1α ko tissue than wt tissue ( figure 7b ) .
staining of the tissue for proliferate cellular nuclear antigen ( pcna ) and count of positive nucleus ( olive et al. 1995 ) also reveal more cell division in hif - 1α ko than in wts , another indication that hif - 1α ko have be subject to great tissue damage ( figure 7c and 7d ) .
a note above , both pfkd and mcardle 's disease be mark by increase resting intramuscular level of glycogen , a failure of serum lactate to rise during exertion , an exercise - induce “ second wind , ” and sign of muscle damage follow exertion , include elevate level of creatine kinase in the serum ( tarui et al. 1965 ; layzer et al. 1967 ) .
in addition , pfkd be characterize by elevate level of hmps ( tarui et al. 1965 ; layzer et al. 1967 ; argov et al. 1987 ; grehl et al. 1998 ) and great pcr utilization during contraction ( argov et al. 1987 ; grehl et al. 1998 ) .
we see many of these hallmark of muscle deficiency in glycolytic processing in hif - 1α ko .
the effect be not likely due to glucose uptake , a wt and hif - 1α ko intramuscular glucose level be not different at rest or follow stimulation ( see figure 3b ) , and both type of mouse respond similarly to a glucose tolerance test ( figure 8a ) .
periodic acid – schiff ( pa ) staining of tissue from mouse of both genotype give further demonstration of increase glycogen level in rest muscle from hif - 1α ko ( figure 8b ) .
give the difference in performance observe in the hif - 1α ko in eccentric and concentric exercise , it be clear that the hif - 1 pathway and hypoxic response have a central role in determine the capacity for work and endurance through regulation of glycolysis .
it be also clear that these mouse will provide an important model system to investigate the physiology of muscle response during work and oxygen depletion , and may be useful a a model for a group of very debilitate myopathic syndrome in human .
material and method
mouse strain and cross .
mouse be generate from hif - 1α loxp - flank allele mouse stock backcross into a c57bl6 / j background .
these be cross into a c57bl6 / j strain contain the mck / cre transgene .
control be in all case littermates that be genotyped a contain only the loxp - flank hif - 1α allele or only the mck / cre transgene .
no phenotypic difference be see in the two control , so they be consider interchangeably a wt control animal .
genotyping and real - time pcr for hif - 1α deletion
mouse from the above cross be genotyped use dna extract from tail section .
dna be then extract from the gastrocnemius , heart , liver , and uterus of eight 4 - mo – old , loxp - flank hif - 1α – positive and mck / cre – positive mouse .
hif - 1α level be measure by real - time pcr analysis use the universal pcr master mix kit ( applied biosystems , foster city , california , united state ) and the abi prism 7700 sequence detector ( applied biosystems ) .
condition for the pcr be one 10 - min incubation at 95 ° c ( polymerase activation ) , follow by 40 cycle of 15 s at 95 °c ( denaturation ) and 1 min at 60 °c ( anneal / extend ) .
the degree of excision be calculate by compare hif - 1α dna level to c - jun dna level .
hif - 1α real - time pcr primer and probe be a follow : forward primer , hiflox501 / f 5 ′ - ctatggaggccagaagagggtat - 3 ′ ; reverse primer , hiflox574 / r 5 ′ - cccacatcaggtggctcataa - 3 ′ ; probe , hiflox / p 5 ′ - ( 6fam ) agatcccttgaagctag ( mgbnfq ) - 3 ′ .
muscle histology and electron microscopy .
paraffined gastrocnemius section be deparaffinized and stain with gill ii hematoxylin .
section be then wash successively in water , a blue agent , water again , and 95 % ethanol , and restained with eosin .
hematoxylin and eosin staining be perform by the university of california at san diego ( ucsd ) cancer center histology resource ( la jolla , california , united state ) .
imaging be perform on section mount on slide use cytoseal 60 ( vwr , west chester , pennsylvania , united state ) .
electron microscopy be perform by standard method on gastrocnemius muscle .
briefly , fixation be by 25.5 % glutaraldehyde in 0.1 m sodium cacodylate buffer ( ph 7.4 ) .
postfix be in 1 % osmium tetroxide .
the section be stain in 2 % uranyl acetate in sodium maleate buffer ( ph 5.2 ) , then place in epon resin ( vwr , west chester , pennsylvania , united state ) , and cure overnight at 60 ° c .
fiber typing be perform use the metachromatic dye atpase method ( ogilvie and feeback 1990 ) .
pa staining be perform a have be describe ( bancroft and stevens 1996 ) .
assessment of exhaustion .
untrained , age - match wt mouse and hif - 1α ko ( wt , n = 10 ; ko , n = 14 ) be run either on an omnipacer treadmill ( columbus instrument , columbus , ohio , united state ) or on an enclose - chamber modular treadmill ( columbus instrument ) with a 5 ° incline at an initial velocity of 10 m / min .
velocity be increase by 2 m / min every 5 min during the assessment .
exhaustion be determine to be the point at which the animal would not resume run when provoke through a low - voltage power grid .
gas flow ( o2 and co2 ) into and out of the enclose chamber treadmill be monitor use the paramax o2 sensor and a co2 sensor ( columbus instrument ) and analyze use oxymax software ( columbus instrument ) to determine metabolic parameter .
the downhill running assessment ( wt , n = 8 ; ko , n = 6 ) be carry out in the enclose - chamber modular treadmill at a 10 ° decline use the same protocol a above .
in the swimming exhaustion assessment , a second group of wt and hif - 1α ko ( n = 8 for each class ) be place in a 30 ° c water bath with mild turbulence .
exhaustion be determine to be the point at which the animal experience three successive period below the surface of more than 3 s .
isolate stimulation and metabolic analysis .
the achilles tendon be surgically free from live , anesthetize mouse ( wt , n = 8 ; ko , n = 6 ) and attach to a force transducer to record contractile force .
muscle be electrically stimulate through excitation of the sciatic nerve .
stimulation be in the form of 8 – 10 - v direct titanic contraction use 200 - m train at 70 hz with 0.2 m duration .
initial frequency of tetanic contraction be one every 8 s and be increase every 2 minute to one every 4 s and one every 3 s , up to the end point of 6 min .
isolate muscle be then immediately harvest and snap - freeze for atp , lactate , phosphocreatine , and glycogen analysis .
sample be freeze - dry and analyze by enzymatic assay a have be previously describe ( bergmeyer 1974 ) .
the unstimulated gastrocnemius muscle from each mouse be use a a resting control .
real - time pcr measurement of gene expression .
for basal gene expression level , total rna be isolate from gastrocnemius tissue from seven wt and five hif - 1α ko use rna - bee ( tel - test , friendswood , texas , united state ) .
reverse transcription be perform use the superscript first stand synthesis system for rt - pcr ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
amplification be perform use the abiprism 7700 a describe above .
reverse transcription real - time pcr primer and probe be a follow .
for pgk - 1 : reverse primer , pgk / r 5 ′ - caggaccattccaaacaatctg - 3 ′ ; forward primer , pgk / f 5 ′ - ctgtggtactgagagcagcaaga - 3 ′ ; probe , pgk / p 5 ′ - ( 6 ∼ fam ) tagctcgaccca - cagcctcggcatat ( tamra ) - ( phosphate ) - 3 ′ .
for vegf - a : reverse primer , vegf / r 5 ′ - atccgcatgatctgcatgg - 3 ′ ; forward primer , vegf / f 5 ′ - agtcccatgaagtgatcaagttca - 3 ; probe , vegf / p ( 6 ∼ fam ) tgcccacgtcagagagcaacatcac ( bhq ∼ 6 ∼ fam ) .
for glut4 : reverse primer , glut - 4 / r 5 ′ - cccatgccgacaatgaagtt - 3 ′ ; forward primer , glut - 4 / f 5 ′ - tgtggccttctttgagattgg - 3 ′ ; probe , glut - 4 / p 5 ′ ( 6 - fam ) tggccccattccctggttcatt ( bhq1 - q ) - 3 ′ .
for pfk - m : reverse primer , pfk - m / r 5 ′ - aagtcgtgcagatggtgttcag - 3 ′ ; forward primer , pfk - m / f 5 ′ - gccacggtttccaataacgt - 3 ′ ; probe , pfk - m / p 5 ′ - ( 6 - fam ) cctgggtcagacttcagcatcggg ( bhq1 - q ) - 3 ′ .
for ldh - a : reverse primer , ldh - a / r 5 ′ - atgcacccgcctaaggttctt - 3 ′ ; forward primer , ldh - a / f 5 ′ - tgcctacgaggtgatcaagct - 3 ′ ; probe , ldh - a / p 5 ′ - ( 6 - fam ) tggcagacttggctgagagcat ( bhq1 - q ) - 3 ′ .
for change in gene expression due to exercise , age - match male mouse ( wt , n = 5 ; ko , n = 6 ) be run on a treadmill at 25 m / min for 30 min .
follow the run , mouse be euthanized and rna be isolate and analyze a describe above .
analysis of enzyme activity level
for change in enzyme activity level with exercise , mouse ( wt , n = 5 ; ko , n = 12 ) be run on a treadmill use the same protocol a for the gene expression analysis .
tissue be harvest after the run and from rest mouse ( wt , n = 6 ; ko , n = 10 ) , and enzyme be extract and analyze spectrophotometrically a have be describe ( reichmann et al. 1983 ) , with the exception that fructose 1 , 6 - bisphosphate be replace with fructose 2 , 6 - bisphosphate for stabilization of pfk .
unit of activity be normalize to milligram of total protein use a bca protein quantification kit ( pierce biotechnology , rockford , illinois , united state ) .
creatine kinase , serum lactate , hematocrit , and hemoglobin level .
creatine kinase level be analyze from serum from wt mouse and hif - 1α ko 24 h after running - induce exhaustion use a kit from sigma ( st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
creatine kinase isoforms be analyze enzymatically and then fractionate by gel electrophoresis .
serum lactate level be analyze by the ucsd comparative neuromuscular laboratory from blood obtain by cardiac puncture from six wt mouse and six hif - 1α ko follow 25 min running time on the treadmill ramp at 25 m / min .
hematocrit and hemoglobin level be measure from rest mouse ( wt , n = 6 ; ko , n = 4 ) by the ucsd animal care program diagnostic laboratory .
glucose tolerance curve .
animal be assign into either a sham ( wt , n = 5 ; ko , n = 4 ) or glucose tolerance group ( wt , n = 8 ; ko , n = 8 ) .
experimental animal be inject with 0.3 g / ml glucose in pb to achieve a dosage of 2 g / kg .
sham animal be inject with an equivalent amount of pb .
blood be draw from the tail at time interval of 0 , 15 , 30 , 60 , and 120 min .
sample be then centrifuge to isolate plasma .
plasma blood glucose be quantify use the infinity glucose kit ( sigma ) .
calcium uptake measurement .
intact individual muscle fiber ( wt , n = 6 ; ko , n = 4 ) be mechanically dissect from the flexor brevis muscle and load with fura - 2 .
fiber be then stimulate while force generation and ca2 + release be monitor .
four - day endurance test
endurance be test by run 24 animal ( wt , n = 10 ; ko , n = 14 ) on the omnipacer treadmill or the enclose - chamber modular treadmill use the same exhaustion protocol describe above .
mouse run accord to this protocol every day for 4 d with a minimum of 22 h of rest between trial .
follow the fourth trial , mouse be give 24 h of rest and then euthanized .
tissue be harvest and stain use hematoxylin - eosin ( a describe above ) and α - pcna ( pharmingen , san diego , california , united state ) combine with a dab kit ( vector lab , burlingame , california , united state ) .
statistical analysis
statistical analysis ( unpaired student 's t - test , mann - whitney test , anova ) be carry out use statview software ( sa institute , cary , north carolina , united state ) or prism software ( graphpad software , san diego , california , united state ) .
abbreviation
b - had - beta - hydroxyacyl coa dehydrogenase
c - citrate synthase
glut4 - glucose transporter 4
hif - 1α - hypoxia - inducible factor 1α
hif - 1α ko - skeletal - muscle hif - 1α knockout mouse
hmp - hexose monophosphate
ldh - a - lactate dehydrogenase - a
mck - muscle creatine kinase
pa - periodic acid – schiff
pcna - proliferate cellular nuclear antigen
pcr - phosphocreatine
pfkd - phosphofructokinase disease
pfk - m - muscle - specific form of phosphofructokinase
pgk - phosphoglycerate kinase
pk - pyruvate kinase
rer - respiratory exchange ratio
vegf - vascular endothelial growth factor
wt - wild - type
figure and table
figure 1
exercise capacity of cardiac hif - 1α ko and hif - 1α / mck / cre mitochondrial density
( a ) mouse lack cardiac hif - 1α perform no differently in endurance running trial than wt mouse , show that the increase in exercise capacity see in mck / cre mouse be due to deletion of hif - 1α in skeletal muscle , not cardiac tissue .
( b ) mouse lack skeletal muscle hif - 1α have a slight but nonsignificant increase in mitochondrial density a measure by the number of mitochondrion per electron microscope field of view .
figure 2
hematocrit and hemoglobin level in hif - 1α ko and wt mouse
( a ) hematocrit level be virtually identical in both hif - 1α ko ( n = 3 ) and wt ( n = 4 ) mouse , indicate that loss of hif - 1α in skeletal muscle do not affect oxygen carry capacity of the blood .
( b ) in addition to similar hematocrit level , wt mouse and hif - 1α ko have very close blood hemoglobin level .
figure 3
intramuscular metabolite level at rest and following stimulation
( a ) glycolytic intermediate be measure from gastrocnemius muscle following the isolate stimulation protocol .
rest value represent level in the unstimulated gastrocnemius from the same animal .
hif - 1α ko have a trend toward great accumulate level of hmps during the stimulation protocol , although the difference do not reach statistical significance ( p = 0.10 ) .
this difference could be indicative of a blockage in the glycolytic pathway at pfk .
( b ) no significant difference be see between hif - 1α ko and wt intramuscular glucose level at rest or following stimulation .
both hif - 1α ko and wt muscle be able to significantly increase glucose uptake , lead to great level of intramuscular glucose in response to stimulation ( wt , p < 0.001 ; ko , p < 0.05 ) .
( c ) hif - 1α ko have more store glycogen than do wt mouse .
glycogen level be measure follow the same stimulation protocol a in ( b ) .
the change in glycogen from rest to poststimulation be also great in the hif - 1α ko , indicate that they metabolize more glycogen in response to stimulation ( p < 0.01 ; * p < 0.05 , wt at rest vs. ko at rest ) .
( d ) hif - 1α ko utilize more pcr in response to stimulation than do wt mouse .
similar level of pcr be see at rest , but hif - 1α ko metabolize significantly more during stimulation ( p < 0.05 ) and have much low level follow the protocol ( ** p < 0.01 , wt poststimulation vs. ko poststimulation ) .
( e ) a trend toward low pcr / atp concentration ratio be see in hif - 1α ko relative to wt mouse following stimulation , although the difference do not quite reach statistical significance ( p < 0.10 ) .
a trend toward a great drop from rest to poststimulation in the pcr / atp ratio be also see in hif - 1α ko following stimulation ( p < 0.10 ) , indicate that they have to rely more heavily on pcr for atp generation .
( f ) slight but nonsignificant difference be see in whole - muscle atp level at rest or following stimulation .
although hif - 1α ko exhibit alter substrate utilization , they be able to meet their atp demand during the protocol .
( g ) both hif - 1α ko and wt animal produce significant intramuscular lactate during the stimulation protocol ; however , there be no significant difference in the amount produce by either genotype .
rest intramuscular lactate level be also similar for wts and hif - 1α ko .
figure 4
force generation and ca2 + release in isolate muscle fiber during stimulation
( a ) no difference be see in total force generation in isolate muscle fiber .
mechanically dissect fiber from the flexor brevis muscle be subject to a fatiguing protocol .
neither initial nor final force differ between hif - 1α ko and wt fiber .
( b ) ca2 + release and reuptake in hif - 1α ko and wt fiber be not different during the stimulation protocol .
ca2 + level be measure in individual fiber through use of fura - 2 ca2 + indicator .
the alter substrate utilization do not affect the ability of the fiber to maintain proper ca2 + flux .
figure 5
oxidative metabolism and serum lactate production in hif - 1α ko and wt mouse
( a ) hif - 1α ko have high resting level of c activity .
c be an enzyme in the krebs cycle that can be regulate allosterically by atp level .
increase c activity be indicative of increase muscle oxidative capacity , which be common in patient with glycogenolytic or glycolytic myopathy ( # p < 0.10 , ko vs. wt ) .
( b ) hif - 1α ko have high rest level of b - had activity , which be indicative of a great ability to oxidize fatty acid ( ** p < 0.01 , wt vs. ko ) .
( c ) low serum lactate level be see in hif - 1α ko following a time 25 - minute run ( * p < 0.05 , wt vs. ko ) .
figure 6
endurance capability of untrained mouse
( a ) hif - 1α ko have great endurance in swimming test a show by their ability to swim on average more than 45 min longer than wt ( * p < 0.05 , wt vs. ko ) .
( b ) hif - 1α ko have great endurance than wt mouse in uphill running test .
although only a 10 - min difference be see between run time , it be to be note that because of the protocol , this 10 min include two velocity increase ( ** p < 0.01 , wt vs. ko ) .
( c ) hif - 1α ko have less endurance than wt mouse in downhill running test .
the same protocol be use a in figure 4a , except the mouse be run on a 10 ° decline ( * p < 0.05 , wt vs. ko ) .
( d ) rer uphill vs. downhill in wt mouse .
a would be expect from eccentric exercise rely more heavily on glycolytic fiber , the rer value be high in mouse run downhill than in those run uphill .
( e ) rer uphill vs. downhill in hif - 1α ko .
once again , high rer value be observe for mouse run downhill than those run uphill .
figure 7
increase muscle damage in hif - 1α ko following repeat exercise
( a ) wt mouse and hif - 1α ko undergo a 4 - d endurance test , in which animal be run to exhaustion on each of four successive day with a minimum of 22 h rest between trial .
hif - 1α ko demonstrate initially great endurance under the protocol ; however , by the second day , their endurance advantage be eliminate , and by the fourth day , hif - 1α ko be run for a significantly short time ( ** p < 0.01 ) than on the first day , while wt animal be run for approximately similar time a on the first day .
repeat measure anova reveal that the decrease in performance on each successive day be unique to hif - 1α ko ( p < 0.05 ) .
( b ) example of hematoxylin and eosin staining of gastrocnemius muscle after 1 d of recovery by mouse after the 4 - d endurance test .
evidence of great damage can be see in hif - 1α ko muscle compare to wt muscle .
( c ) example of pcna staining of gastrocnemius muscle from exercise mouse , demonstrate increase level of muscle regeneration in hif - 1α ko .
( d ) number of pcna - positive nucleus per square millimeter in gastrocnemius muscle of wt mouse ( n = 5 ) and hif - 1α ko ( n = 7 ) that run repeatedly for 4 d .
although hif - 1α ko have almost twice as many pcna - positive nucleus per square millimeter , the difference be not significant , because of wild variation in that population .
f - test analysis of the data reveal that the variance be much great in the hif - 1α ko population than the wt population ( p < 0.05 ) .
figure 8
glucose tolerance and glycogen storage
( a ) no significant difference be see in rest blood glucose level in hif - 1α ko or wt mouse .
following injection of glucose at a dosage of 2 g / kg , no difference be see in the maximum level of blood glucose or the rate of glucose disappearance in either genotype .
( b ) representative pa staining of gastrocnemius muscle from wt mouse and hif - 1α ko .
hif - 1α ko demonstrate dark staining , indicate more store glycogen .
table 1
excision of hif - 1α in various tissue
deletion level be the average percent of hif - 1α delete ± se
table 2
fiber typing of gastrocnemius muscle
value be percent ± se
table 3
fiber typing of soleus muscle
value be percent ± se
* p < 0.05 , wt vs. ko
table 4
relative gene expression level
expression level be mean relative to rest wt for each gene ± se
percent increase indicate percent increase of postexercise average gene expression over rest average
* p < 0.05 , rest vs. postexercise ; ** p < 0.01 , rest vs. postexercise
table 5
glycolytic enzyme activity level from gastrocnemius muscle
activity be in u / mg protein ± se
gapdh , glyceraldehyde 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase ; pgi , phosphoglucose isomerase
* p < 0.05 , wt vs. hif - 1α ko for give exercise or rest state ; ** p < 0.05 , rest vs. postexercise within give genotype
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
rsj conceive and design the experiment .
sdm , rah , mjk , imo , wm , rph , and fjg perform the experiment .
sdm , rah , mjk , imo , mch , pdw , fjg , and rsj analyze the data .
crk and rsj contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
sdm and rsj write the paper .
academic editor : michael bate , university of cambridge
citation : mason sd , howlett ra , kim mj , olfert im , hogan mc , et al. ( 2004 ) loss of skeletal muscle hif - 1α result in alter exercise endurance .
plo biol 2 ( 10 ) : e288 .
brn3c null mutant mouse show long - term , incomplete retention of some afferent inner ear innervation
abstract
background
ear of brn3c null mutant develop immature hair cell , identifiable only by certain molecular marker , and undergo apoptosis in neonate .
this partial development of hair cell could lead to enough neurotrophin expression to sustain sensory neuron through embryonic development .
we have therefore investigate in these mutant the pattern of innervation and of expression of known neurotrophins .
result
at birth there be a limit expression of bdnf and nt - 3 in the mutant sensory epithelium and dii tracing show no specific reduction of afferent or efferent that resemble neurotrophin null mutation .
at postnatal day 7 / 8 ( p7 / 8 ) , innervation be severely reduce both qualitatively and quantitatively .
1 % of myosin viia - positive immature hair cell be present in the mutant cochlea , concentrate in the base .
around 20 % of immature hair cell exist in the mutant vestibular sensory epithelium .
despite more severe loss of hair cell ( 1 % compare to 20 % ) , the cochlea retain many more sensory neuron ( 46 % compare to 15 % ) than vestibular epithelium .
even 6 month old mutant mouse have some fiber to all vestibular sensory epithelium and many more to the cochlear apex which lack myoviia positive hair cell .
topologically organize central cochlea projection exist at least until p8 , suggest that functional hair cell be not require to establish such projection .
conclusion
the limit expression of neurotrophins in the cochlea of brn3c null mouse suffice to support many sensory neuron , particularly in the cochlea , until birth .
the molecular nature of the long term survival of apical spiral neuron remain unclear .
keywords : ear development , pou factor and hair cell , afferent ear innervation , efferent ear innervation
background
brn3c be a pou domain factor that be crucial for inner ear hair cell development .
target null brn3c mutant have no mature hair cell [ 1 , 2 ] .
close examination have reveal that some ' immature ' hair cell form in brn3c null mutant and express cellular marker such a myosin vi and viia , calretinin and parvalbumin [ 3 ] .
furthermore , these immature hair cell of brn3c null mutant undergo apoptosis in neonate [ 3 ] .
consistent with an apparent absence of mature hair cell , initial work suggest that all vestibular and most spiral ganglion cell be lose by postnatal day 14 ( p14 ; [ 1 ] ) .
however , more detailed quantification by others [ 3 ] report that at p4 about 77 % of vestibular neuron and only 29 % of spiral neuron be lose .
it be suggest that there be possibly a complete loss in adult [ 3 ] .
other than these preliminary statement , no data exist concern the detailed pattern of loss of innervation in brn3c null mutant .
the initial development and partial differentiation of hair cell in brn3c mutant could possibly lead to some neurotrophin expression in these cell to sustain sensory neuron through embryonic development and beyond .
data on various single and compound neurotrophin null mutant have show that the loss of a specific neurotrophin lead to topologically restricted loss of sensory neuron in the embryonic ear [ 4 , 5 ] .
such selective loss in brn3c null mutant would therefore indicate reduction of a specific neurotrophin in immature hair cell .
moreover , recent work show that in embryo nt - 3 be primarily express in support cell , move only around birth into hair cell [ 6 , 7 ] .
in fact , the selective loss of vestibular a compare to cochlear sensory neuron ( 77 % versus 29 % ; [ 3 ] ) suggest that nt - 3 expression may be less downregulated in brn3c null mutant than bdnf [ 6 , 8 , 9 ] , provide that at least some differentiation of support cell take place .
in the ear [ 4 ] as well a elsewhere [ 10 ] neurotrophins be progressively downregulated in postnatal mammal and possibly replace by other factor [ 11 ] .
we have investigate in detail the pattern of innervation in the brn3c mutant , as well a the expression of nt - 3 and bdnf .
we want to evaluate a possible correlation between the topology of sensory neuron loss and absence of a specific neurotrophin or topological loss of hair cell at birth and in old animal .
this information could be important for an in - depth evaluation of the human deafness relate to the pou4f3 gene , dfna15 [ 12 ] .
we report here long term retention of cochlear sensory neuron for at least 6 month , in particular in the cochlear apex , in brn3c null mutant mouse .
this retention of afferent and efferent be unrelated to hair cell differentiation a not even immature hair cell can be detect at early postnatal stage with myovii immunocytochemistry in this part of the cochlea .
this retention of apical spiral neuron be also largely unrelated to neurotrophins which be know to be reduce in their expression in neonatal rodent [ 4 ] .
result
to appreciate the effect of the brn3c null mutation on the pattern of the inner ear innervation , we first want to present the effect of bdnf and nt - 3 null mutation at birth [ 6 , 13 , 14 ] .
null mutant of bdnf or it receptor trkb lose all innervation to the semicircular canal and have a reduce innervation to the utricle , saccule and apical turn of the cochlea .
in contrast , null mutation of either nt - 3 or it receptor trkc result in loss of spiral neuron in the basal turn with formation of an inner spiral bundle of afferent extend to the basal tip .
our null hypothesis for this study would be that brn3c null mouse show severe compromise production of these neurotrophins and should therefore show a comparable pattern of nerve fiber loss .
brn3c null mutant at birth ( p0 )
vestibular ganglion be small in brn3c null mutant ( fig. 1b ) than in control littermates ( fig. 1a ) , but large than in bdnf or trkb null mutant of the same age [ 13 , 15 ] .
the reduction in apparent size of the vestibular ganglion be in agreement with quantitative data publish previously [ 3 , 13 ] .
these data suggest a loss of 80 – 85 % of vestibular sensory neuron in bdnf and trkb null mutant [ 13 ] and of 77 % of vestibular sensory neuron in p4 brn3c null mutant [ 3 ] .
thus , the size reduction in the vestibular sensory ganglion could be compatible with a loss of bdnf production in the immature hair cell .
figure 1
size variation of vestibular ganglion in control and mutant littermates label with dii .
in newborn animal , the vestibular ganglion show a dramatic reduction in brn3c null mutant ( b ) compare to control littermates ( a ) .
abbreviation for this and other figure : ac , anterior crista ; ggl , ganglion ; c , spiral capillary ; genic. ggl. , geniculate ganglion ; ger , great epithelial ridge ; hc , horizontal crista ; hac , vestibular hair cell ; ihc , inner hair cell ; ihc , immature hair cell ; igsb , intraganglionic spiral bundle ; ohc , out hair cell ; pc , posterior crista ; s , saccule ; sg , spiral ganglion ; tm , tectorial membrane ; u , utricle ; vcn , ventral cochlear nucleus ; vg , vestibular ganglion .
bar indicate 1000 μm .
however , the brn3c null mutant show only a reduce density of afferent and efferent fiber to all vestibular sensory epithelium .
there be no specific loss of all afferent and efferent innervation to the canal crista ( fig. 2a ) , a hallmark of both bdnf and trkb null mutation [ 13 , 15 ] .
in fact , the reduction of fiber seem to be rather uniform throughout a give sensory epithelium with the crista innervation be qualitatively no more reduce than the innervation of the utricle and saccule .
no loss in specific area , comparable to that in bdnf null mutant mouse , be apparent in the saccule or utricle of brn3c null mouse .
similar pattern of innervation be obtain use acteylated tubulin immunocytochemistry ( fig. 2b ) .
figure 2
innervation of brn3c null and control ear be show for newborn mouse .
there be no specific loss of fiber to any vestibular endorgan , a visualize by dii labeling ( a ) or acetylate tubulin immunoreactivity ( b ) .
no major difference in pattern of projection through radial fiber be find in the cochlea of brn3c null mutant ( d , f ) a compare to control littermates ( c ) .
note , however , the lack of orderly fiber outgrowth to the out hair cell ( c , d ) .
efferent fiber to the ear show a well develop intraganglionic spiral bundle ( igsb ) with no detectable difference compare to control ( e ) .
bar indicate 100 μm .
consistent with the finding of xiang et al. [ 3 ] of only a 29 % loss of spiral sensory neuron at p4 , our data show little difference in the pattern of innervation of the cochlea in p0 brn3c null mutant ( fig. 2c , 2d ) .
no selective loss of spiral neuron be observe in brn3c null mutant in the basal turn , a feature of either nt - 3 or trkc loss [ 6 , 9 , 14 ] .
likewise , the innervation of the apex ( fig. 2f ) show no detectable abnormality in overall pattern of innervation compare to control animal ( data not show ) , an indication that bdnf could be express in the apex [ 6 ] .
in addition , the pattern of efferent innervation show no deviation from normal either ( fig. 2e ) , whereas they show the same pattern of loss a afferent fiber in neurotrophin null mutant [ 16 ] .
these data suggest that the spiral sensory neuron develop qualitatively normal at least until p0 and therefore allow normal pathfinding of efferent .
most interestingly , there be no increase in radial fiber spacing in the apex , a specific problem of bdnf null mutant [ 6 , 13 ] .
however , there be one qualitative difference not recognize in any single neurotrophin null mutant .
afferent reach all three row of out hair cell in the basal turn of control wildtype littermates ( fig. 2c ) , but both afferent and efferent outgrowth be disorganized to out hair cell in brn3c null mutant ( fig. 2d ) and do not show any clear organization into three distinct longitudinal fiber bundle parallel the three row in the out hair cell region .
these data suggest that fiber organization in the out hair cell region be partly disrupt in brn3c null mutant .
brn3c null mutant at p7 / 8
reduction of vestibular innervation be more pronounced than at p0 .
loss of afferent and , even more clearly of efferent , be most pronounced in the utricle ( fig. 3a , 3b ) and saccule ( data not show ) .
in contrast , the innervation to the canal cristae , while reduce , have change little from p0 .
in particular the horizontal canal receive a rather dense afferent and efferent innervation in brn3c null mutant .
figure 3
reduction of innervation of the ear be show in 8 - day old mouse .
while all vestibular sensory epithelium retain some afferent ( a ) and efferent ( b ) innervation , there be a more pronounced reduction , in particular of efferent fiber , to the utricle ( a , b ) a compare to the canal .
in the cochlea there be an increase spacing between radial fiber bundle in the basal turn ( c , e ) .
no afferent can be trace to the three out spiral bundle along out hair cell of mutant littermates ( c , e ) .
the apex show little change , except for the absence of fiber to the area of out hair cell and the formation of inner spiral bundle pass along the few immature hair cell ( d , f , g ) .
the pattern obtain with dii tracing be identical to that obtain by acetylate tubulin immunoreactivity ( f , g ) .
bar indicate 1000 μm in a , 100 μm in b - g .
the cochlea at p8 show more qualitative deviation from the normal pattern of innervation .
for example , all three row of out hair cell now receive both afferent and efferent innervation in the base of control littermates ( fig. 3c ) .
however , no fiber extend to the out hair cell region in brn3c null mutant ( figs. 3d , 3e , 3f ) .
in control animal there be dense innervation of inner hair cell , whereas brn3c null mutant show a curious aggregation of fiber near focal spot around the habenula perforata .
the apex show less pronounced deviation from normal ( fig. 3f , 3g ) .
however , a in the base , afferent and efferent extend sparingly to the out hair cell region .
there be formation of an inner spiral bundle communicate both afferent and efferent between the focal point where fiber appear to pass through the habenula perforata ( fig. 3f , 3g ) .
a in newborn animal , efferent fiber closely follow the pattern of innervation display by afferent ( data not show ) .
the limited qualitative effect of brn3c null mutation on fiber loss be particularly obvious in the p8 brn3c null mutant apical turn ( fig. 3g ) .
immunocytochemical and histochemcial data show the presence of only a few immature hair cell in the cochlea ( fig. 4 ) , which amount to about 1 % ( table 1 ) .
not a single immature hair cell form in the apex of the cochlea .
in contrast , more immature hair cell be find in the appropriate position of hair cell in the vestibular endorgans ( table 1 ) .
in fact , the vestibular end organ show no overt morphological defect other than the reduce presence of these immature hair cell .
nerve fiber can be trace into the sensory epithelium of p0 and p8 brn3c null mutant past the habenula perforata and there be a normal location of spiral sensory neuron in rosenthal 's canal in the apex of p8 brn3c null mutant ( fig. 3d , 3g ) .
the cochlea show other defect as well .
for example , the spiral capillary be not find underneath the organ of corti but in the spiral limbus nearby ( fig. 4 ) .
the lack of immature hair cell seem to affect also the formation of pillar cell ( undifferentiated almost throughout the cochlea ; fig. 4 ) and deiters ' cell ( not recognizable base on their morphology ) , a suggestion consistent with recent molecular data on the interaction of hair cell and support cell [ 17 , 18 ] .
figure 4
the distribution of hair cell a identify with myovii immunocytochemistry be show for 7 - day old whole mount cochlea ( a - d ) and the appearance of cytological differentiation be show a reveal with epoxy resin section in 7 - day old ( e - g ) and 6 - month old ( h ) control ( a , c , e ) and brn3c mutant cochlea ( b , d , f - h ) .
note the uniform staining with this antibody of all three row of out hair cell ( ohc ) and the single row of inner hair cell ( ihc ) in the wildtype ( a , c ) .
in contrast , only few immature hair cell ( ihc ) be find in the basal turn of the mutant littermate ( b ) and only an occasional cell be myovii immunopositive in the middle turn ( d ) .
no myovii positive immature hair cell exist in the apex .
section show the degree of differentiation of hair cell and their innervating fiber stain with tubulin immunocytochemistry ( arrow ; e - h ) .
note the presence of a spiral capillary ( c ) under the tunnel of corti separate the inner and out hair cell in the p7 wildtype ( e ) .
in contrast , no such capillary be present underneath the organ of corti in mutant ( f - h ) and no tunnel of corti be find either .
a tectorial membrane form ( tm ) but otherwise there be little cyotological differentiation .
note that tubulin - positive fiber can be trace to the immature cell until 6 month ( h ) .
bar in c indicate 100 μm .
table 1
number of hair cell and sensory neuron in p7 wildtype and brn3c mutant littermates
difference between wildtype and mutant be all highly significant .
comparison of number of immature hair cell in the vestibular and cochlear area ( fig. 4 ) with the number of survive vestibular and cochlear sensory neuron do not show any correlation ( table 1 ; fig. 5 ) .
only a few undifferentiated hair cell be detect by myoviia immunostaining and only in the basal region of the cochlea .
and yet only about 50 % of cochlear sensory neuron be lose overall with a less severe loss in the apex in which we could not detect any immature hair cell with myoviia immunocytochemistry .
this do not exclude the possibility that even less differentiate hair cell may form in the apex .
figure 5
this graph show the reduction in sensory neuron ( top ) and in hair cell ( bottom ) between 7 - day old wildtype and brn3c null mutant littermates .
note the sharp reduction to 1 % in the cochlear immature hair cell ( bottom ) whereas spiral sensory neuron ( sg ) be only reduce by 50 % ( top ) .
in contrast , 20 % immature hair cell could be identify in vestibular sensory epithelium ( saccule have be select ; bottom ) whereas only around 15 % of the vestibular sensory neuron survive to this age ( vg ; top ) .
for detail on the data see table 1 .
the central projection of dii and dia trace fiber to the cochlear nucleus ( fig. 6 ) where they show a clear segregation of apical turn afferent ( fig. 6 , green ) and basal turn afferent ( fig. 6 , red ) in both the enter cochlear nerve ( fig. 6a ) and the ventral cochlear nucleus ( vcn ) ( fig. 6b ) .
qualitative comparable central projection be find in wildtype control littermates ( data not show ) and suggest that the central projection to cochlear nucleus be at least until p8 in mouse not critically dependent on auditory information or other hair cell - mediated influence , in agreement with recent suggestion [ 5 , 19 ] .
figure 6
these confocal image show the projection pattern of a p8 brn3c null mutant mouse .
dii ( red ) be insert into the basal turn , dia ( green ) be insert into the apical turn .
note that the fiber run in discrete bundle inside the cochlear nerve ( a ) , spiral around each other near the root and project to distinct medial and lateral division of the ventral cochlear nucleus ( b ) .
these data suggest that a crude cochleotopic projection can form independently of any signaling from the immature hair cell of the cochlea .
arrow indicate the efferent bundle a it leave the afferent fiber tract .
bar indicate 100 μm .
6 month brn3c null mutant
very few fiber ( both afferent and efferent ) to the vestibular epithelium remain ( fig. 7a ) , thus display a further reduction of the pattern of innervation find in p8 brn3c null mutant .
notably , there be still a number of fiber extend from the very few vestibular sensory neuron to the canal epithelium , in particular the horizontal canal ( fig. 7a , 7b ) .
only very few fiber extend to the utricle and saccule with the reduction of efferent to these epithelium be almost complete ( fig. 7a and data not show ) .
comparable to control mouse , there be some transcellular labeling with dii to cell apparently contact by the afferent fiber in the brn3c null mutant utricle ( fig. 7b ) .
however , these cell could not be clearly identify a immature hair cell base on their morphology .
figure 7
the innervation of sensory epithelium be show in 6 - month old brn3c null mutant mouse .
compare to p8 animal there be a further reduction of fiber density to vestibular sensory epithelium , but fiber can be trace to all sensory epithelium ( a , b ) .
transcellular labeling with dii ( b ) suggest contact between these afferent and immature hair cell .
the cochlea show a much reduce density of radial bundle , even in the apex ( c , d ) .
however , spiral sensory neuron be present in rosenthal 's canal ( c , d ) and fiber extend to the organ of corti where they form longitudinal tract in the immature epithelium .
bar indicate 100 μm .
the cochlea , most prominently the apex , receive many afferent fiber , which form an interrupted inner spiral bundle ( fig. 7c ) .
some of the radial fiber bundle be myelinated ( fig. 7d ) .
only an occasional fiber extend beyond the inner spiral bundle into the area of the out hair cell ( fig. 7d ) .
even at this late stage in maturation there be still numerous spiral neuron present in the apex ( fig. 7c , 7d ) .
in summary , these trace data suggest that mature hair cell be not necessary to direct fiber outgrowth and to maintain some fiber at least up to 6 month in the apex of the cochlea .
importantly , the spatio - temporal loss of innervation do not follow the pattern of loss know from neurotrophin and neurotrophin receptor null mutation a it start in brn3c mutant mouse after birth .
in situ hybridization confirm neonatal neurotrophin expression
we process four ear of p0 and p8 brn3c null and control littermates for expression of bdnf and nt - 3 use the riboprobes previously describe [ 7 ] .
we do not analyze neurotrophin expression in 6 - month old animal a neurotrophins be downregulated in neonate [ 20 ] and no expression can be find even in normal animal [ 4 ] .
in the canal cristae we expect , and find , only a bdnf signal .
this signal be very strong over hair cell of the p0 control animal ( fig. 8b ) .
in contrast , only a faint signal be detect in the brn3c null mutant ( fig. 8a ) and the few silver grain be locate predominantly over the area of the immature hair cell .
the bdnf signal in the utricle be clearly center on the hair cell in the control animal but some aggregation of silver grain appear also in the brn3c null mutant ( data not show ) .
figure 8
the expression of bdnf and nt - 3 mrna be show in the p0 vestibular sensory epithelium .
silver grain be false color a red to enhance visibility against the grey nissl - stain background .
canal cristae contain only bdnf ( a , b ) , but gravistatic endorgans , such a saccule and utricle , contain both bdnf and nt - 3 ( c - f ) .
note the prominent bdnf expression in the hair cell region ( hac ) of control canal ( b ) and saccule ( d ) and low level of expression in the brn3c null mouse ( a , c ) over immature hair cell ( ihc ) .
the nt - 3 expression be much more diffuse in both control and brn3c mutant littermates .
bar indicate 100 μm .
in the saccule , we directly compare the bdnf ( fig. 8c , 8d ) and nt - 3 signal ( fig. 8e , 8f ) of the brn3c null mutant ( fig. 8c , 8e ) and control littermates ( fig. 8d , 8f ) .
a strong bdnf signal be find over the hair cell of control animal and an occasional immature hair cell also show a bdnf signal in the brn3c null mutant .
the nt - 3 signal be more diffuse in both the control and the brn3c null littermates but show some slightly above background signal in the area of the sensory epithelium even in the brn3c null mutant .
in the cochlea , the bdnf signal be very weak in the base in both the control ( fig. 9b ) and the brn3c null littermates ( fig. 9a ) .
however , there be a surprisingly strong nt - 3 signal over the organ of corti in the apex of brn3c null littermates ( fig. 9c ) that closely match the signal find in the control littermates ( fig. 9d ) .
the nt - 3 signal in the area of the cochlea that correspond to the ihc 's persist at least until p8 in the apex of brn3c null mouse ( fig. 9e , 9f ) .
figure 9
bdnf and nt - 3 mrna expression be show in the cochlea of p0 ( a - d ) and p8 ( e , f ) brn3c null and control littermates .
note the limit expression of bdnf in the basal turn of both wildtype and mutant littermates ( a , b ) and the much strong expression of nt - 3 in the apex over the region of the inner hair cell in both wildtype and control littermates ( c , d ) .
nt - 3 expression persist at least until p8 in the apex of brn3c null mouse in an area that topologically compare to the inner hair cell of control animal ( e , f , arrow ) .
bar indicate 100 μm .
discussion
we will explore five point in this discussion : how the limit expression of neurotrophins relate to the apparent survival of primary neuron until p8 ; how the know absence of apical hair cell and of classical neurotrophins can be related to the presence of large number of apical turn spiral neuron ; how absence of differentiate hair cell affect afferent and efferent targeting ; and how these data possibly relate to other mutant animal and to child bear with profound hearing loss .
immature hair cell and limited expression of neurotrophins rescue afferent projection until p8
the neurotrophins have long be implicate a the mediator for target mediate cell death .
in essence , this theory of regulation of neuronal connection via neurotrophic support imply that only limited quantity of neurotrophins be release by the target tissue to support only properly connect sensory neuron by provide only these with a critical amount of neurotrophins [ 21 ] .
past experiment , which eliminate one or more neurotrophins entirely , only partially test the basic assumption of this theory in vivo .
for example , in bdnf heterozygotic animal there be a small decrease in the number of sensory neuron in the ear [ 13 ] but no change in the overall pattern of innervation .
moreover , all of the neurotrophin / neurotrophin receptor null mutant study to date eliminate expression in both the peripheral target and the brain simultaneously and achieve their effect in late embryo .
in contrast , brn3c be barely express during embryogenesis in the cns [ 22 ] thus argue that the survival of ear primary neuron depend crucially on the periphery .
we suggest that limited expression of neurotrophins in the immature target lead to retention of primary neuron and their afferent fiber in newborn and early postnatal brn3c null mouse .
in agreement with this suggestion , our in situ data show a severe reduction in expression of bdnf ( figs. 8 , 9 ) .
despite this reduction , some , apparently biologically significant low level of neurotrophins be apparently express in all sensory epithelium in embryonic brn3c null mutant .
it appear that even these low level of neurotrophins in the vestibular sensory epithelium can sustain normal fiber outgrowth and a limit maintenance until p0 .
the comparatively high level of nt - 3 expression in brn3c null mutant cochlea , which have be show to be the neurotrophin most prominently support spiral sensory neuron [ 6 , 9 , 14 ] , be in agreement with the normal development of cochlear innervation in newborn brn3c null mutant .
since bdnf appear to be exclusively produce by hair cell [ 6 , 7 , 20 ] , the lack of terminal differentiation of hair cell appear to be accompany by only limited expression of bdnf , a be the case in the canal cristae ( fig. 8 ) .
past research have show that in bdnf and trkb null mutant this innervation to canal cristae be lose before birth [ 6 , 13 ] .
that even these low level of expression be significant be clear from the fact that all canal sensory epithelium receive an innervation by both afferent and efferent at birth and later ( figs. 2 , 3 ) .
the situation in the utricle , saccule and cochlea be less clear a both bdnf and nt - 3 be express [ 6 , 7 ] .
in fact , it appear that the level of nt - 3 expression hardly differ from those in control littermates ( figs. 8 , 9 ) .
the latter be particularly obvious in the apex of the cochlea .
in fact , in the cochlea of embryo and neonate as well a in the saccule and utricle of embryo , nt - 3 be predominantly express in support cell [ 6 ] .
this expression of nt - 3 in support cell in embryo and neonate may even preserve in brn3c null mutant the numerous spiral sensory neuron in the apex of 8 - day old animal ( figs. 3 , 4 ) .
long term survival of apical sensory neuron be unrelated to differentiated hair cell and likely be independent of neurotrophins
past work have show that bdnf and nt - 3 appear to shift in their expression into inner hair cell around birth or be lose in the ear and other part of the nervous system [ 6 , 10 , 20 , 23 ] .
it have be suggest that other neurotrophins may come into play in the ear [ 11 ] .
however , the apex of brn3c null mutant , which retain most of the spiral neuron afferent at 6 - month , show no formation of mature hair cell at any time survey here ( p0 , p8 , p10 ) .
thus the factor ( s ) can not be release by differentiate hair cell but there be an unexplored possibility of generalize expression of neurotrophins at low level in the undifferentiated epithelium .
however , know neurotrophins be largely absent in the adult cochlea [ 4 ] and significant amount of neurotrophin expression appear to develop only in postnatal animal in the cns [ 24 ] .
such expression in the cns could possibly offset to some extent the peripheral loss of neutrophins in target null mutant .
this would work only in case in which the loss of primary neuron would not already be complete long before birth a be the case in the ear [ 6 , 13 ] .
it therefore remain unclear what support the many afferent in the apex of the brn3c null mutant until 6 month of age or long , unknown peripheral neurotrophic substance or neurotrophic support provide by the cns .
comparable long term retention of apical spiral sensory neuron be describe for the deaf white cat [ 25 ] and may also be the case in human with congenital deafness .
growth of fiber to the cochlea do not require mature hair cell
formation of radial fiber that bring peripheral process of spiral neuron to the organ of corti seem to be rather normal , even in the apex of the cochlea which do not even develop immature hair cell recognizable by myo viia .
this do not preclude that even less differentiated hair cell precursor may form in the apex or that those precursor have die before birth .
interestingly , the growth to out hair cell be most affect in brn3c null mutant cochlea .
instead of extend radially through the tunnel of corti to out hair cell , afferent appear to stall and extend in longitudinal direction a inner spiral bundle ( figs. 3 , 7 ) .
it have be show that the differentiation of pillar cell depend on activation of fgfr3 [ 26 ] by fgf 's , probably fgf8 , a factor produce by develop and mature inner hair cell [ 18 , 27 ] .
the formation of support cell also appear to depend on the proper expression of various bhlh factor such a he 1 and 5 which appear to be regulate by the notch signaling pathway [ 17 , 28 , 29 ] .
it be possible that the apparent inability of fiber to extend along out hair cell be related to the lack of differentiation of support cell in the absence of mature hair cell .
probe for the proper expression of support cell specific marker in brn3c null mutant be necessary to far evaluate these suggestion .
previous work have suggest that efferent fiber , derive from facial branchial motoneuron , follow afferent and for that reason reflect in detail all connectional deviation of afferent [ 16 , 30 - 32 ] .
our data agree with this scenario but extend it .
specifically , efferent fiber may suffer the same loss of their molecularly unknown neurotrophic support a do afferent and therefore show the same spatio - temporal profile of loss ( fig. 3 ) .
alternatively , efferent fiber can sustain establish connection only as long a afferent fiber be present .
more information on the actual molecular support of efferent fiber in the ear be need before those two possibility can be distinguish .
the onset of cochleotopic projection have be investigate in detail in only very few mammal [ 19 ] .
these data suggest that a cochleotopic projection develop before onset of hearing .
our data show that at least a cochleotopic projection in the cochlear nerve and the cochlear nucleus develop even in brn 3c null mutant ( fig. 6 ) .
those data be also consistent with the formation of a crude cochleotopic projection in nt - 3 null mutant [ 6 , 14 ] .
those mutant have a much more severely reduce density of innervation in the develop cochlea [ 6 , 14 ] than the reduction we find in brn3c null mutant at p0 .
in this context , it would be interesting to see whether the recently generate transgenic mouse in which bdnf be express under nt - 3 promoter control [ 33 ] could actually perform an even more pronounced rescue in a brn3c null mutant background .
relevance of our finding to other mutation with hair cell loss
vahava et al. [ 12 ] and frydman et al. [ 34 ] have demonstrate that mutation in a single human allele of pou4f3 ( brn3c ) result in a late onset of high frequency hearing loss .
thus far no data be available that correlate the late onset of hearing loss with morphological defect in the cochlea .
in fact , an investigation of brn3c heterozygotic mouse show no additional effect on hearing loss due to haploinsufficiency in these mouse [ 35 ] .
our data on brn3c null mouse mutant nevertheless suggest that the high to low frequency progressive hearing loss in human may correlate with the unknown factor ( s ) that mediate apical spiral neuron survival into adulthood .
quantitative data on human pou4f3 cochlea be need to verify that spiral neuron loss be more pronounced in the basal , high frequency area of these hearing - deficient patient .
similar data be also need for other congenitally deaf child [ 36 ] and in the deaf white cat [ 25 ] .
further work on the recently available mutant mouse with specific absence of all hair cell [ 37 ] , out hair cell in the base [ 38 ] or apex [ 39 ] could far help to clarify the role of hair cell in form and maintain afferent and efferent innervation in these model mouse .
conclusion
the progressive loss of afferent and efferent innervation in brn3c null mutant show neither in spatial nor in temporal pattern a resemblance to loss report in simple bdnf or nt - 3 null mutation [ 6 ] .
null mutant of ear specific neurotrophins have complete the loss of sensory neuron before birth .
in contrast , our result suggest a slow loss of afferent and efferent innervation between p0 and at least 6 month .
this late sensory neuron loss be likely not related to known neurotrophin signaling which become reduced in neonatal wildtype animal .
other factor , such a gdnf [ 11 , 40 ] need to be investigate in their expression in these mutant and their functional role need to be assess , in particular in the cochlear apex .
the long term retention of afferent in the cochlear apex in the absence of any apparent differentiation of hair cell raise hope for cochlear implant in deaf - bear child .
similar long term retention of apical afferent exist in the deaf white cat [ 25 ] and should be explore in other model system with embryonic and neonatal hair cell loss [ 37 , 38 ] .
method
breeding and genotyping
brn3c mouse be breed a previously describe [ 22 ] .
mouse be genotyped and brn3c null mutant be raise to a specific age ( p0 , n = 8 ; p7 , n = 6 ; p8 , n = 6 ; 6 month old , n = 2 ) .
the animal be deeply anesthetize with pentobarbital and transcardially perfuse with 4 % paraformaldehyde in 0.1 m phosphate buffer ( ph 7.4 ) .
ear be postfixed in the same fixative for at least one day prior to dissection .
tracing of nerve fiber
dii trace from the brainstem be perform a previously describe [ 41 ] .
small filter stripe soak with saturate dii be implant into the efferent fiber bundle near the floor plate or into the ascend or descend afferent in the alar plate [ 42 ] .
after appropriate diffusion time of the dye , the ear be dissect and mount flat for visualization in an epifluorescent microscope .
image be take on black and white film or acquire with a cool ccd camera and process use imagepro software ( medium cybernetics ) .
ear be subsequently react for acetylate tubulin to reveal the pattern of innervation in addition to the dii trace with a different technique a previously describe [ 14 ] .
briefly , dissect ear be incubate with 1 : 500 anti-acetylated tubulin antibody ( sigma , st. louis ) follow by secondary antibody conjugate to hrp .
dissect inner ear be react with dab and h2o2 for hrp distribution and subsequently view a whole mount .
after photograph a whole mount , the ear be embed in epoxy resin and section to reveal the distribution of fiber inside the sensory epithelium in more detail .
cochleotopic projection be evaluate by insert dii soak filter strip into the base and dia soak filter strip into the apical turn of 2 p0 and 4 p8 brn3c null mutant and a similar number of wildtype littermates .
after appropriate diffusion time [ 43 ] , the brain with the attach cochlear nerve be embed in gelatin , harden in 4 % pfa over night , section coronally on a vibratome ( 100 μm thickness ) and view with a biorad radiance 2000 confocal system attach to a nikon eclipse 800 microscope .
image stack be collapse to view the entire projection in one section in one focal plane .
in situ hybridization
four ear each of brn3c null mutant ( p0 and p8 ) and control littermates be embed in paraffin , section and probe for the presence of bdnf and nt - 3 mrna use the in situ technique previously describe [ 7 ] .
section be lightly counterstained and view with bright and dark field microscopy .
image be acquire with a ccd camera and display a false color image a previously describe [ 18 ] .
immunocytochemistry of hair cell and quantification of hair cell and neuron
immunostaining of p7 cochlear whole mount use the hair cell specific - myosin vii ( myoviia ) antibody be perform a previously describe [ 2 ] .
image of label organ of corti be then acquire use a spot digital camera ( diagnostic instrument inc. ) and the number of hair cell be score from acquire image .
to determine the number of hair cell or neuron in vestibular endorgans or sensory ganglion , serial section be stain with cresyl violet and image be similarly acquire and score .
every other section be score for each sensory epithelium and every forth section be score for each ganglion .
only neuron or cell with a clear nucleus and nucleolus be count and 4 – 6 sample be count for each epithelium and ganglion .
all data be test for significance use two - sample student 's t - test with unequal variance .
author ' contribution
mx generate the null mutation , breed all the mouse use for this study and generate the statistical data and the immunocytochemical data with myovii , am conduct the tract trace study of cochlear afferent and help with the histological analysis and assembly of image plate , up carry out the in situ hybridization for neurotrophins and assemble the plate for these data , bf write the manuscript , carry out most of the neuronal tracing and immunocytochemistry for acetylate tubulin and data presentation .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
support by the national eye institute ( ey12020 , mx ) , the march of dime birth defect foundation ( mx ) , the egyptian government ( am ) , the juselius foundation ( up ) , the nidcd ( 2 p01 dc00215 , bf ; dc04594 , m.x. ) , the taub foundation ( bf ) and nasa ( 01 - obpr - 06 ; bf ) .
spontaneous autoimmunity in 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse — implication for autoimmunity describe in gene - target mouse
abstract
systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) be a multisystem autoimmune disorder in which complex genetic factor play an important role .
several strain of gene - target mouse have be report to develop sle , implicate the null gene in the causation of disease .
however , hybrid strain between 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse , widely use in the generation of gene - target mouse , develop spontaneous autoimmunity .
furthermore , the genetic background markedly influence the autoimmune phenotype of sle in gene - target mouse .
this suggest an important role in the expression of autoimmunity of as - yet - uncharacterised background gene originate from these parental mouse strain .
use genome - wide linkage analysis , we identify several susceptibility locus , derive from 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse , map in the lupus - prone hybrid ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) model .
by create a c57bl / 6 congenic strain carry a 129 - derive chromosome 1 segment , we find that this 129 interval be sufficient to mediate the loss of tolerance to nuclear antigen , which have previously be attribute to a disrupt gene .
these result demonstrate important epistatic modifier of autoimmunity in 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse strain , widely use in gene targeting .
these background gene influence may account for some , or even all , of the autoimmune trait describe in some gene - target model of sle .
introduction
systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) be a chronic autoimmune disease characterise by the production of autoantibody ( auto-abs ) against a wide spectrum of self - antigen , mainly from subcellular compartment , especially the cell nucleus .
genetic predisposition be an important contributor to susceptibility to sle in both human and animal ( vyse and todd 1996 ; harley et al. 1998 ; theofilopoulos and kono 1999 ; wakeland et al. 2001 ) .
gene in multiple pathway participate in mediate disease pathogenesis , and epistatic interaction amongst these gene influence the expression of disease .
in this context , both genetic linkage study in spontaneous lupus - prone model and synthetic murine model of autoimmunity generate by target disruption of specific gene modulate the immune system have widely be use to investigate the complexity of sle .
the best - study strain of mouse that spontaneously develop a lupus - like pathology be the new zealand black / new zealand white hybrid strain ( nzb / wf1 ) ; the mrl / mp lpr / lpr strain , which carry the lpr mutation of the fa receptor gene ; and the bxsb strain , which carry the y chromosome autoimmune accelerator ( yaa ) gene ( theofilopoulos and dixon 1985 ) .
extensive genetic mapping study in all three strain have identify multiple interval associate with disease susceptibility .
interestingly , the majority of the interval detect be strain - specific , confirm the genetic complexity of the disease and indicate the presence of extensive heterogeneity in the gene contribute to the pathogenesis of the disease .
however , some susceptibility locus have be map to similar chromosome location in different strain , suggest that at least some susceptibility may be share amongst lupus - prone strain .
amongst these share susceptibility locus , the most striking be locus on distal chromosome 1 , for which important contribute gene have be find in new zealand and bxsb model ( theofilopoulos and kono 1999 ; wakeland et al. 2001 ) .
although considerable effort have be make to identify the gene responsible for the development of the disease , with the exception of the lpr mutation , none of the genetic contribution to disease in the three well - document murine sle strain have yet be fully resolve at the molecular or protein level .
thus , target genetic disruption of candidate gene encode protein of the immune system have be extensively use to examine their role in immune regulation .
however , the most surprising result of this powerful approach have be the high frequency with which such mutation have be associate with an autoimmune phenotype .
in this regard , it be of note that hybrid strain between 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse , widely use in the generation of gene - target mouse , be spontaneously predispose to development of humoral autoimmunity with low level of glomerulonephritis ( obata et al. 1979 ; botto et al. 1998 ; bickerstaff et al. 1999 ; santiago - raber et al. 2001 ) .
furthermore , the genetic background markedly influence the autoimmune phenotype in gene - target mouse ( bolland and ravetch 2000 ; santiago - raber et al. 2001 ; mitchell et al. 2002 ) .
these observation lead to the hypothesis that the autoimmune phenotype describe in some gene - target mouse might be due primarily to combination of as - yet - uncharacterised background gene , originate from 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse strain , interact or not with the mutate allele .
to test this , we conduct a genome - wide scan analysis of two large cohort of ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 mouse , one of which carry a mutation in the serum amyloid p component gene ( apc ) .
the apc - deficient mouse ( apc − / − ) be choose a an example of a gene - target strain previously report to develop a lupus - like disease on the hybrid genetic background ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) ; autoimmunity in apc − / − mouse persist even after backcross the mutate gene onto c57bl / 6 ( bickerstaff et al. 1999 ) .
we choose this target gene in particular to study since the apc gene be locate on chromosome 1 , approximately 94 cm from the centromere , within a region where several lupus - susceptibility locus , designate sle1 ( morel et al. 2001 ) , nba2 ( drake et al. 1995 ; vyse et al. 1997 ) , and bxs3 ( hogarth et al. 1998 ; haywood et al. 2000 ) , have be map in nzw , nzb , and bxsb lupus - prone strain , respectively .
this region contain several gene , include those encode fcγrii , the complement receptor cr1 / 2 ( cd35 / cd21 ) , and the decay - accelerate factor cd55 ( prodeus et al. 1998 ; bolland and ravetch 2000 ; miwa et al. 2002 ; wu et al. 2002 ) , which have each be implicate in the causation of sle when inactivate by gene - target in 129 embryonic stem cell .
here we show that there be multiple genetic locus , derive from both 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse , contribute to autoimmunity .
furthermore , a 129 - derive interval on distal chromosome 1 , when transfer onto the c57bl / 6 genome , a combination commonly create by backcross onto c57bl / 6 a gene that have be inactivate in 129 embryonic stem cell , be sufficient to cause humoral autoimmunity in it own right , irrespective of the presence of the mutate apc gene .
these result demonstrate important epistatic interaction between gene from 129 and c57bl / 6 genome on the development of autoimmunity and illustrate the important effect of background gene in the analysis and interpretation of autoimmune phenotype associate with target genetic disruption .
result
disease trait in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 and ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse
to investigate the genetic basis of the lupus - like disease observe in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) hybrid mouse , we generate two large cohort of ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 animal , one carry a mutation in the apc gene , and monitor them for 1 y under identical environmental condition .
since female mouse in the original report show a high penetrance of disease , the present study be conduct only on female mouse .
the result of the phenotypic analysis at 1 y of age be summarise in table 1 and 2 .
a previously report ( botto et al. 1998 ) , the wild - type ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 mouse develop lupus trait with elevate level of auto-abs , start from 6 mo of age ( data not show ) , and histological evidence of proliferative glomerulonephritis .
in agreement with our previous observation ( bickerstaff et al. 1999 ) , the titre of anti-nuclear ab ( ana ) and anti-chromatin ab be considerably great in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse compare with the strain - match control .
however , in contrast to our original finding , the level of the other two disease serological marker analyse ( anti-single - strand dna [ ssdna ] and anti-double - strand dna [ dsdna ] ab ) and the severity of the renal pathology be not different between the two experimental group .
in view of the possibility of an association between the fix 129 - derive segment flank the mutate apc gene and the autoimmune trait observe , the genome - wide linkage analysis of the two experimental cohort be carry out separately .
mapping of locus predispose to lupus in the hybrid strain ( 129 × c57bl / 6 )
mouse be genotyped with 143 microsatellite marker distribute throughout the autosome such that 98 % of the gene be within 20 cm of an informative marker .
a summary of the genome - wide linkage analysis for each of the disease trait measure be show in table 3 .
the area of linkage be define accord to the parental origin , 129 or c57bl / 6 .
only linkage identify in both experimental group be report in table 3 , with the exception of the chromosome 1 distal segment , where the linkage analysis could not be apply to the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse a this region be of fix 129 origin .
chromosome where linkage be present only in one of the two cohort be show in figure 1 – 3 .
the quantitative trait linkage ( qtl ) analysis identify several interval on chromosome 1 with linkage to disease serological marker , and these region be all derive from the 129 mouse strain ( see table 3 ; figure 4 and 5 ) .
interestingly , whilst ana and anti-chromatin ab level show suggestive or significant linkage only to the telomeric region of chromosome 1 , with an estimate peak occur at a position approximately 90 cm near the apc gene , anti-dsdna or anti-ssdna ab production be also link to other segment on chromosome 1 , indicate a more complex genetic contribution from the 129 mouse strain .
guide by these observation , we investigate whether the increase level of ana and anti-chromatin ab observe in the apc − / − mouse be cause by a gene ( s ) within the fix 129 region surround the mutate apc gene , rather than cause by the mutate apc gene itself .
we compare the level of these auto-abs between all ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse and a group of 33 wild - type mouse that be select for be homozygous 129 in the region of chromosome 1 between microsatellites d1mit105 and d1mit 223 ( 80 – 106 cm ) ( figure 6a – 6d ) .
in contrast to the result report in table 1 , this comparison show no significant difference between the two experimental group .
this result demonstrate that , most likely , the 129 - derive region and not the lack of apc be mediate the production of ana and anti-chromatin ab .
consistent with this explanation , we find that the 129 mouse have significantly high level of apc in circulation compare with the c57bl / 6 mouse ( median , 83 mg / l ; range , 25 – 208 ; n = 16 versus median , 5 mg / l ; range , 4 – 9 ; n = 10 , respectively ; p < 0.0001 ) .
the c57bl / 6 strain have previously be report to be one of the murine strain define a low apc producer ( pepys et al. 1979 ; baltz et al. 1980 ) .
in addition , sequence analysis of the entire apc cod region in both strain fail to identify any cod sequence polymorphism in the apc gene ( data not show ) , indicate that a structural variant of the protein be unlikely to be the explanation for our finding .
this be consistent with a previous report by drake et al. ( 1996 ) that show no apc cod sequence difference amongst several autoimmune and nonautoimmune murine strain .
in addition to the 129 - derive segment , in both cohort the c57bl / 6 strain contribute to the autoimmune trait with one major susceptibility locus on chromosome 3 .
a genomic region between d3mit40 and d3mit13 , with an estimate peak at position approximately 51 cm , show a significant linkage to ana production and weak linkage to anti-ssdna and anti-chromatin production ( see table 3 ; figure 7 ) .
the high frequency of autoimmune phenotype in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) hybrid genetic background and it absence in either of the inbred parental strain imply that there be essential interaction between 129 - and c57bl / 6 - derive allele for the expression of autoimmunity .
we investigate far the effect of gene from the c57bl / 6 background by repeat the linkage analysis in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 mouse , whilst control for the very strong 129 effect on distal chromosome 1 , a previously describe ( zeng 1994 ) .
the result of this analysis show that the statistical support for the linkage of the c57bl / 6 locus on chromosome 3 for ana increase from logarithm of odds ( lod ) 5.4 to lod 6.4 .
in contrast to these strong association with disease serological marker , the qtl analysis identify only two potential linkage to glomerulonephritis : one in the wild - type mouse on chromosome 7 across a 10 cm region between d7mit246 ( 15 cm ) and d7mit145 ( 26.5 cm ) of 129 origin ( lod 2.86 , p = 0.0013 ) , and one on chromosome 17 between d17mit100 ( 11.7 cm ) and d17mit216 ( 29.4 cm ) from the c57bl / 6 strain ( lod 1.3 , p = 0.049 and lod 1.67 , p = 0.021 in the wild - type and apc − / − mouse , respectively ) .
histological evidence of glomerulonephritis be only find in approximately 20 % of the mouse in each cohort , which reduce the power of the qtl analysis for this disease trait .
production of a c57bl / 6 . 129 chromosome 1 congenic line and it phenotypic analysis
we generate a c57bl / 6 congenic line carry the telomeric region of chromosome 1 from the 129 mouse strain , in order to dissect the complex polygenic disease phenotype of the ( c57bl / 6 × 129 / sv ) f2 hybrid strain into it individual genetic component .
the 129 interval be backcross seven time onto c57bl / 6 , and at each generation the presence or absence of the chromosome 1 interval be determine with several microsatellite marker .
each backcross generation be screen with more than three marker per chromosome to facilitate the removal of unselected 129 genomic region .
at the end of the backcrossing , the 129 - derive chromosome 1 interval in the congenic mouse extend from microsatellite marker d1mit105 to d1mit223 ( 80 – 106 cm ) , which encompass the most important 129 interval identify by the linkage study in the ( c57bl / 6 × 129 / sv ) f2 mouse .
female chromosome 1 congenic mouse ( c57bl / 6 . 129 [ d1mit105 – 223 ] ) , together with sex - match apc − / − mouse backcross onto c57bl / 6 for ten generation ( c57bl / 6 . apc − / − ) and c57bl / 6 control , be monitor for the presence of lupus .
in the c57bl / 6 . apc − / − mouse , the 129 genome around the apc locus be map a a stretch of approximately 17 cm , position from 87.9 cm ( d1mit15 ) to 105 cm ( d1mit17 ) .
thus , the congenic line carry a similar 129 region ( 80 – 106 cm ) to the one present in the c57bl / 6 . apc − / − mouse ( 87.9 – 105 cm ) .
at 1 y of age , all animal be sacrifice , the auto-abs assess , and the renal histology examine .
the result of this analysis be show in figure 8 .
a previously report ( bickerstaff et al. 1999 ) , the level of auto-abs be markedly increase in the c57bl / 6 . apc − / − compare to the wild - type c57bl / 6 control .
however , the c57bl / 6 . 129 ( d1mit105 – 223 ) animal also express high level of auto-abs , and these titre be not different from those detect in the match congenic mouse contain a null mutation of the apc gene .
these result clearly demonstrate that epistatic interaction between 129 locus on chromosome 1 and c57bl / 6 gene be sufficient to mediate the loss of tolerance to nuclear autoantigens .
however , in contrast to the serological data , the histological assessment of the kidney show evidence of markedly increase glomerulonephritis in the c57bl / 6 . apc − / − compare to both control group ( figure 9 ) , suggest that the lack of apc , when combine with other c57bl / 6 susceptibility allele , can induce the development of severe renal damage .
discussion
there be accumulate evidence that background gene may influence the expression of autoimmunity in gene - target mouse .
here we report what be to our knowledge the first systematic study that have examine this in the 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse strain , widely use for gene targeting .
our result demonstrate interact locus between 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse that can cause the expression of a powerful autoimmune phenotype in these animal , in the absence of any gene - target mutation .
we also develop a congenic mouse strain bear a portion of 129 chromosome 1 on a c57bl / 6 background and show that this wild - type congenic line express striking anti-nuclear autoimmunity .
by compare this chromosome 1 congenic strain with match congenic mouse lack the apc gene , we demonstrate that serum amyloid p component deficiency influence the severity of glomerulonephritis , but be not the prime mover in the induction of anti-nuclear autoimmunity , contrary to our own original interpretation of our data ( bickerstaff et al. 1999 ) .
the same consideration apply to other gene locate in the same chromosome 1 region that have be implicate in the development of sle when inactivate by gene - target in 129 embryonic stem cell and then backcross onto a pure genetic background ( bolland and ravetch 2000 ; miwa et al. 2002 ; wu et al. 2002 ) .
for each , there have to be a question a to whether the anti-nuclear autoimmunity be due to the gene - target mutant gene or to the normal 129 gene express in the same region a the target gene .
the influence of background gene on the development of spontaneous autoimmune disease be well know , especially with respect to the lpr and yaa disease - susceptibility gene .
in mrl / mp mouse , the presence of the lpr gene accelerate the development of high level and broad - spectrum auto-ab production and lethal glomerulonephritis , in addition to marked lymphoproliferative disease .
in contrast , homozygosity of the lpr gene in other strain such a c57bl / 6 , akr , lg / j , and c3h lead only to auto-ab production ( izui et al. 1984 ) .
similarly , the y - chromosome - link yaa gene in bxsb and mrl / mp male enhance the rapid development of auto-abs and glomerulonephritis ( izui et al. 1988 ; merino et al. 1989 ) .
however , in the c57bl / 6 background , the yaa gene do not lead to an autoimmune phenotype ( izui et al. 1988 ) .
not surprisingly , important effect of the genetic background on the expression of autoimmunity have also be report in gene - target mouse ( bolland and ravetch 2000 ; santiago - raber et al. 2001 ; mitchell et al. 2002 ) .
thus , sle exist a a complex - trait disorder in which specific combination of susceptibility allele be require for the expression of the full phenotype .
through the use of microsatellite marker map , the identification of murine sle susceptibility interval in experimental cross have be make possible .
these mapping study have show that the disease expression in relation to the inheritance of the different allele follow a threshold liability pattern in which a positive phenotype depend upon the presence of multiple discrete susceptibility locus with no single locus be a prerequisite factor .
we have employ the same approach to analyse the genetic basis of disease inheritance in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) hybrid strain , the most common genetic background in gene - target mouse .
although spontaneous autoimmunity have not be document in either of the pure 129 or c57bl / 6 strain , a spontaneous lupus - like phenotype have be describe in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) hybrid strain ( obata et al. 1979 ; botto et al. 1998 ; bickerstaff et al. 1999 ; santiago - raber et al. 2001 ) , suggest that the predisposition in these hybrid mouse may arise a a result of the interaction between specific combination of allele inherit from both the 129 and c57bl / 6 parental strain .
this be confirm by the mapping study report here .
we show that there be multiple genetic locus contribute to the disease and these be derive from both 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse .
we demonstrate that a 129 - derive segment of chromosome 1 be strongly link to the expression of auto-abs .
this region be probably capable of cause the initiation of a humoral autoimmune response to nuclear antigen ; however , this response do not occur in the absence of c57bl / 6 gene .
in support of this , we identify a c57bl / 6 segment on chromosome 3 , which may interact with the 129 gene on chromosome 1 to mediate the loss of tolerance .
interestingly , although the c57bl / 6 sle - susceptibility region on chromosome 3 be novel , disease - modify allele derive from c57bl / 10 and c57bl / 6 strain have be map to a portion of chromosome 3 close to the region identify in this study ( morel et al. 1999 ; haywood et al. 2000 ) .
furthermore , the region on chromosome 7 associate with the development of lupus nephritis have be link to the same trait in other murine model of sle ( santiago et al. 1998 ; morel et al. 1999 ; xie et al. 2002 ) , suggest the possibility of share susceptibility locus .
take together our result suggest a complex genetic contribution from the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) hybrid background genome , with both enhance as well a inhibitory locus from the 129 mouse , in addition to gene promote autoimmunity from the c57bl / 6 mouse .
the impact that these interact locus may have on the lupus - like disease present in several gene - target animal be far assess by compare apc − / − mouse with chromosome 1 genetically match control .
in the context of sle susceptibility , one of the most consistently map non-mhc region of the mouse genome be the telomeric chromosome 1 segment , where several disease locus , designate sle1 ( morel et al. 2001 ) , nba2 ( drake et al. 1995 ; rozzo et al. 1996 ; vyse et al. 1997 ) , and bxs3 ( hogarth et al. 1998 ) , have be map in lupus - prone strain .
moreover , this region of mouse chromosome 1 be orthologous to a region on human chromosome 1q22 – 1q25 , which have also be link with human sle ( moser et al. 1998 ) .
the apc gene be one of the candidate gene know to lie within this region .
the human serum amyloid p component bind avidly to dna , chromatin , and apoptotic cell in physiological condition in vitro ( pepys 1974 ; pepys and butler 1987 ; butler et al. 1990 ) and also to expose chromatin and apoptotic cell in vivo ( hintner et al. 1988 ; breathnach et al. 1989 ; familian et al. 2001 ) .
we have previously report that ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) . apc − / − mouse spontaneously produce a wide range of ana and develop significant immune complex glomerulonephritis ( bickerstaff et al. 1999 ) .
on the basis of these observation , it be postulate that apc , by alter the clearance of chromatin , contribute to the pathogenesis of sle .
however , in this study we find that only ana and anti-chromatin ab level be significantly increase in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse .
a possible explanation for this discrepancy may lie in the fact that the apc − / − mouse analyse in the original study be generate from a limited number of founder and that this may have cause a nonrandom inheritance of the locus from the parental strain .
furthermore , the whole - genome analysis identify the 129 region surround the apc gene a the main locus contribute to the development of ana and anti-chromatin ab .
in agreement with this , when we carry out a selective comparison between the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse and chromosome 1 genetically match control , we fail to detect any significant difference in the level of these two auto-abs .
these finding , take together , indicate that the phenotype associate with apc deficiency be cause by the presence of unaltered 129 gene from the telomeric region of chromosome 1 operate in the c57bl / 6 genomic background .
strong supportive evidence for this be provide by the analysis of the c57bl / 6 mouse congenic for this 129 region .
the generation and analysis of congenic strain have successfully be use to dissect the contribution of individual susceptibility allele to a multigenic trait such a sle .
we adopt the same strategy to investigate the relative contribution of the 129 chromosome 1 segment and the apc gene to each disease trait .
use this approach , we demonstrate that the 129 interval on distal chromosome 1 , when transfer onto the c57bl / 6 genome , a combination commonly create by backcross onto c57bl / 6 a mutate gene locate in that chromosomal region , be sufficient to mediate the production of auto-abs .
in this context , it be of note that several strain of mouse with target mutation of gene encode in this region have be report to express a lupus - like illness , include mouse lack fcγriib ( bolland and ravetch 2000 ) , complement receptor ( cr1 / 2 ) ( prodeus et al. 1998 ; wu et al. 2002 ) , and decay - accelerate factor ( cd55 ) ( miwa et al. 2002 ) .
in each case , the autoimmune phenotype be describe in mouse in which the null mutation be generate in 129 embryonic stem cell and then backcross to the c57bl / 6 or another genetic background .
thus , in view of our finding , one may postulate that in each of these murine model of sle , the effect of the target null gene be irrelevant .
similar conclusion may apply to other gene - target animal carry mutation of gene map in the 129 - derive susceptibility allele on chromosome 7 ( o'keefe et al. 1996 , 1999 ) .
the expression of anti-nuclear autoimmunity be identical compare the congenic with the apc − / − mouse .
the only difference in phenotype between these mouse be in the expression of glomerulonephritis , which be more pronounced in the apc − / − mouse compare with the congenic mouse .
although these finding demonstrate that apc be not implicate in the processing of autoantigens , a it have previously be suggest , they indicate that apc might still play an important protective role in lupus nephritis .
in support of this , the expression of the human c - reactive protein , an acute - phase protein closely related to apc , have be show to delay the onset and severity of lupus nephritis in the nzb / w strain by prevent the deposition of immune complex in the renal cortex ( szalai et al. 2003 ) .
consistent with this , a polymorphism associate with reduce basal level of c - reactive protein have be report to be link to sle in human ( russell et al. 2004 ) .
however , a the congenic mouse and the apc − / − mouse carry similar but not identical 129 region on chromosome 1 , an alternative explanation for our finding may still lay in the numerous and complex synergistic and counteractive interaction between 129 and c57bl / 6 gene involve in self - tolerance and end organ damage .
thus , whilst the lack of lupus nephritis in the congenic mouse be consistent with the need for multiple susceptibility gene for the full expression of lupus , further study will be require to fully elucidate the role of apc in the pathogenesis of renal damage .
in summary , our finding demonstrate the impact of epistatic interaction between 129 and c57bl / 6 genome on the development of sle and illustrate how these background gene effect may lead to incorrect interpretation when analyse the autoimmune phenotype of specific genetic disruption .
material and method
mouse .
all the mouse be female .
wild - type c57bl / 6 and 129 / sv ( 129s6 , accord to the revise nomenclature ) be breed and maintain in the animal care facility at imperial college , london , united kingdom .
( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f1 mouse be generate by intercrossing the two wild - type strain and ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 mouse by interbreed the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f1 mouse .
the apc − / − mouse be generate a previously report ( botto et al. 1997 ) , and the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse be generate by intercrossing apc − / − mouse on the 129 genetic background with apc − / − animal backcross onto c57bl / 6 for ten generation .
a total of 141 ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 and 158 ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − female mouse be produce and monitor for 1 y .
wild - type congenic c57bl / 6 . 129 ( d1mit105 – 223 ) mouse be generate by backcross the 129 interval between microsatellites d1mit105 and d1mit223 ( 80 cm to 106 cm ) onto the c57bl / 6 strain .
inherit 129 region be map with microsatellite marker polymorphic between 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse ( see below ) .
after seven generation of backcross , sibling be intercrossed to generate c57bl / 6 . 129 ( d1mit105 – 223 ) congenic mouse homozygous for the 129 chromosome 1 interval .
inside 129 marker at position 81.6 cm ( d1mit159 ) and 105 cm ( d1mit17 ) , respectively , and an outside c57bl / 6 marker at position 74.3cm ( d1mit159 ) be use to far define the interval .
in the c57bl / 6 . apc − / − mouse ( backcross onto c57bl / 6 for ten generation ) , the 129 genome around the apc locus be map a a segment from 87.9 cm ( d1mit15 ) to 105 cm ( d1mit17 ) .
in this analysis , the inside 129 marker be at position 93 cm ( d1mit36 ) and 99.7 cm ( d1mit115 ) and the outside c57bl / 6 marker at position 81.6 cm ( d1mit159 ) and 106 cm ( d1mit223 ) .
along with 28 c57bl / 6 . apc − / − mouse and 30 c57bl / 6 wild - type animal , 26 c57bl / 6 . 129 ( d1mit105 – 223 ) female mouse − / − be follow up to 1 y of age .
animal be maintain in specific pathogen - free condition .
all animal procedure be in accordance with institutional guideline .
serological analysis .
serum , collect at 6 and 12 mo of age , be assay for the presence of auto-abs .
level of igg ana be seek by indirect immunofluorescence use hep - 2 cell , and anti-dsdna ab be detect by indirect immunofluorescence on crithidia luciliae a previously describe ( mitchell et al. 2002 ) .
serum sample be screen at a 1 : 80 ( ana ) or 1 : 20 ( anti-dsdna ) dilution and the positive sample titrate to endpoint .
ab to ssdna and anti-chromatin be measure by elisa , a previously describe ( mitchell et al. 2002 ) .
sample be screen at a 1 : 100 dilution , and the result be express in arbitrary elisa unit ( aeus ) relative to a standard positive sample ( derive from an mrl / mp . lpr / lpr mouse ) , which be assign a value of 100 .
for interplate comparison , serial dilution of a positive control serum sample be include on each plate .
apc level be assess by elisa use sheep anti-mouse apc and rabbit anti-mouse apc ab ( calbiochem , nottigham , united kingdom ) .
sample be screen at a 1 : 3,000 dilution , and the result be express in milligram per liter , refer to a standard curve derive from an acute - phase serum with a know concentration of apc ( calbiochem ) .
apc − / − mouse serum be include a a negative control .
histological analysis .
all the mouse , except the few that die before the end of the experiment , be sacrifice at 1 y of age , and kidney portion be fix in bouin 's solution and paraffin embed , and section be stain with periodic acid – schiff reagent .
glomerular histology be grade in a blinded fashion a follow : grade 0 , normal ; grade 1 , hypercellularity involve great than 50 % of the glomerular tuft in 25 % – 50 % of glomerulus ; grade 2 , hypercellularity involve great than 50 % of the glomerular tuft in 50 % – 75 % of glomerulus ; grade 3 , glomerular hypercellularity in great than 75 % of glomerulus or crescent in great than 25 % of glomerulus .
statistical analysis
non-parametric data be express a median with range of value in parenthesis .
all statistic be calculate use graphpad prismtm version 3.0 for window ( graphpad software , san diego , california , united state ) .
non-parametric test be apply throughout , with difference be consider significant for p value < 0.05 .
the mann – whitney test be use for comparison of two group , whilst for analysis of three group the kruskal – wallis test with dunn 's multiple comparison test be use .
genotypic analysis
genotyping be carry out by pcr of genomic dna use 143 polymorphic marker ( list available on request ) distribute throughout all 19 autosome .
pcrs be perform use standard reagent contain 1.5 mm mgcl2 and 0.4 μm primer .
microsatellite marker be screen for size polymorphism between 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse .
only primer with difference detectable on ethidium bromide - stain agarose gel or on sd - polyacrylamide gel be use .
linkage analysis
the qtl program mapmanager.qtl ( ftp://mcbio.med.buffalo.edu/pub/mapmgr/ ) be use , and the two experimental group be examine independently .
only data from mouse at 12 mo of age be analyse .
log transformation of auto-abs level result in more normalise distribution and be use in qtl mapping .
lod threshold for suggestive and significant linkage be determine by use a cohort - and trait - specific permutation test ( 1,000 permutation ) .
the average threshold for suggestive , significant , and highly significant linkage be lod ≥ 2.1 ( p ≤ 7.8 × 10 − 3 ) , lod ≥ 3.6 ( p ≤ 2.4 × 10 − 4 ) , and lod ≥ 5 ( p ≤ 1 × 10 − 5 ) , respectively ( manly and olson 1999 ) .
support information
accession number
the locuslink ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/locuslink/ ) id number for the gene and gene product discuss in this paper be apc ( locuslink id 20219 ) , cd35 / cd21 ( locuslink id 12902 ) , cd55 ( locuslink id 13136 ) , the fa receptor gene ( locuslink id 14102 ) , and fcγrii ( locuslink id 14130 ) .
acknowledgement
we be grateful to m. lewis for the processing of the sample for histology and to f. reid and d. mitchell for their help .
we thank all of the staff in the animal facility for their technical assistance .
this work be support by the wellcome trust ( grant number 061438 ) .
jch be a recipient of a fellowship from the national institute of health , spain ( befi 99 / 9212 ) .
abbreviation
ab - antibody
ana - anti-nuclear antibody
aeu - arbitrary elisa unit
apc − / − - apc - deficient mouse
apc - serum amyloid p component gene
dsdna - double - strand dna
lod - logarithm of odds
qtl - quantitative trait linkage
sle - systemic lupus erythematosus
ssdna - anti-single - strand dna
figure and table
figure 1
linkage of chromosome 2 with ana and anti-chromatin ab in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse
these association be not detect in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 animal .
centimorgan position be deduce by interval mapping , anchor marker location to data from http://www.informatics.jax.org .
dotted line and the dashed line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider suggestive or significant , respectively , a define in material and method .
figure 3
linkage of chromosome 4 with anti-dsdna ab
the estimate peak in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 mouse be at position 51.3 cm , whilst in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − animal it be be at position 71 cm , indicate that most likely these be two independent locus .
centimorgan position be deduce by interval mapping , anchor marker location to data from http://www.informatics.jax.org .
dotted line the indicate threshold over which linkage be consider suggestive , a define in material and method .
figure 4
interval mapping scan show qtl on chromosome 1 with anti-dsdna and anti-ssdna ab
centimorgan position be deduce by interval mapping , anchor marker location to data from http://www.informatics.jax.org .
dotted line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider suggestive , dashed line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider significant , and dotted / dashed line indicate highly significant linkage , a define in material and method .
see table 3 for additional detail .
figure 5
interval mapping scan show qtl on chromosome 1 with ana and anti-chromatin ab
centimorgan position be deduce by interval mapping , anchor marker location to data from http://www.informatics.jax.org .
dotted line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider suggestive , and dashed line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider significant , a define in material and method .
see table 3 for additional detail .
figure 6
auto-ab profile
( a ) ana titre in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse and ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 at 1 y of age .
a small circle represent one mouse ; a large circle , a variable number of animal , a indicate in parenthesis .
serum sample be titrate to endpoint .
( b ) ana titre in the ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − mouse and a select number of wild - type ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 animal carry the chromosome 1 region between d1mit105 and d1mit223 ( 80 – 106 cm ) of 129 origin .
the symbol be a in ( a ) .
( c and d ) anti-chromatin ab level express in aeus related to a standard positive sample , which be assign a value of 100 aeu .
the comparison be between the same group of mouse a in ( a ) and ( b ) , respectively .
the symbol be a in ( a ) .
figure 7
interval mapping scan show qtl on chromosome 3 with ana , anti-chromatin , and anti-ssdna ab
see table 3 for additional detail .
centimorgan position be deduce by interval mapping , anchor marker location to data from http://www.informatics.jax.org .
dotted line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider suggestive , the dashed line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider significant , and dotted / dashed line indicate highly significant linkage , a define in material and method .
figure 8
auto-ab profile
( a ) ana titre in c57bl / 6 mouse , c57bl / 6 . apc − / − mouse , and c57bl / 6 . 129 ( d1mit105 – 223 ) congenic mouse at 1 y of age .
small symbol represent one mouse ; large symbol , a variable number of animal a indicate in parenthesis .
serum sample be titrate to endpoint .
( b and c ) anti-ssdna ( b ) and anti-chromatin ( c ) ab level in the same cohort of mouse a in ( a ) .
the ab level be express in aeus related to a standard positive sample , which be assign a value of 100 aeu .
( d ) anti-dsdna ab level .
serum sample be screen at 1 : 20 .
sample that be positive be titrate to endpoint .
the symbol be a in ( a ) .
figure 9
renal histological assessment
c57bl / 6 mouse , c57bl / 6 . apc − / − mouse , and c57bl / 6 . 129 ( d1mit105 – 223 ) congenic mouse be sacrifice at 1 y of age to obtain age - match autopsy specimen .
bouin 's fix kidney section be score blinded for glomerulonephritis .
glomerulonephritis be grade on a 0 – 3 scale ( see material and method for detail ) .
figure 2
linkage of chromosome 8 with anti-chromatin and anti-dsdna ab in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 mouse
these linkage be not detect in ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 . apc − / − animal .
centimorgan position be deduce by interval mapping , anchor marker location to data from http://www.informatics.jax.org .
dotted line indicate the threshold over which linkage be consider suggestive , a define in material and method .
table 1
spontaneous auto-abs in apc − / − and wild - type ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 female mouse
significant difference between apc − / − and wild - type control by mann – whitney u test .
the number test for different phenotype be not equal due to the limit amount of serum or death of the mouse before the end of the experiment .
ns , not significant
table 2
histological assessment of kidney section in apc − / − and wild - type ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 female mouse
the renal section be score on a 0 – 3 scale on the intensity and extent of the histopathological change a describe in material and method .
the difference between the two experimental group be not significant
table 3
summary of genome - wide linkage analysis in apc − / − and wild - type ( 129 × c57bl / 6 ) f2 female mouse
a suggestive linkage
b significant linkage
c highly significant linkage a define in the material and method section
chr , chromosome ; est. peak , estimate peak ; lod , logarithm of odds ; n / a , not applicable
chromosome where linkage be not present in both experimental group be not illustrate .
see material and method for detail .
the oligonucleotide sequence and approximate position of the microsatellite marker use be take from the mouse genome database , mouse genome informatics , jackson laboratory , bar harbor , maine , united state ( http://www.informatics.jax.org )
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
mjw , tjv , and mb conceive and design the experiment .
aeb , klr , jw , jc - h , and rjr perform the experiment .
aeb , klr , rjr , and htc analyze the data .
mb write the paper .
academic editor : david nemazee , scripps research institute
¤ current address : the wellcome trust , london , united kingdom
citation : bygrave ae , rose kl , cortes - hernandez j , warren j , rigby rj , et al. ( 2004 ) spontaneous autoimmunity in 129 and c57bl / 6 mouse — implication for autoimmunity describe in gene - target mouse .
plo biol 2 ( 8 ) : e243 .
the phosphatidylserine receptor have essential function during embryogenesis but not in apoptotic cell removal
abstract
background
phagocytosis of apoptotic cell be fundamental to animal development , immune function and cellular homeostasis .
the phosphatidylserine receptor ( ptdsr ) on phagocyte have be implicate in the recognition and engulfment of apoptotic cell and in anti-inflammatory signaling .
to determine the biological function of the phosphatidylserine receptor in vivo , we inactivate the ptdsr gene in the mouse .
result
ablation of ptdsr function in mouse cause perinatal lethality , growth retardation and a delay in terminal differentiation of the kidney , intestine , liver and lung during embryogenesis .
moreover , eye development can be severely disturb , range from defect in retinal differentiation to complete unilateral or bilateral absence of eye .
ptdsr - / - mouse with anophthalmia develop novel lesion , with induction of ectopic retinal - pigment epithelium in nasal cavity .
a comprehensive investigation of apoptotic cell clearance in vivo and in vitro demonstrate that engulfment of apoptotic cell be normal in ptdsr knockout mouse , but ptdsr - deficient macrophage be impair in pro - and anti-inflammatory cytokine signaling after stimulation with apoptotic cell or with lipopolysaccharide .
conclusion
ptdsr be essential for the development and differentiation of multiple organ during embryogenesis but not for apoptotic cell removal .
ptdsr may thus have a novel , unexpected developmental function a an important differentiation - promote gene .
moreover , ptdsr be not require for apoptotic cell clearance by macrophage but seem to be necessary for the regulation of macrophage cytokine response .
these result clearly contradict the current view that the phosphatidylserine receptor primarily function in apoptotic cell clearance .
background
program cell death , or apoptosis , be require for the normal development of almost all multicellular organism and be a physiological mechanism for control cell number ; a a result , structure that be no longer need be delete during development and abnormal cell be eliminate [ 1 , 2 ] .
most of the cell produce during mammalian embryonic development undergo physiological cell death before the end of the perinatal period [ 3 ] .
apoptotic cell be remove rapidly and efficiently a intact cell or apoptotic body by professional phagocyte or by neighboring cell .
this highly regulate process prevent the release of potentially noxious or immunogenic intracellular material and constitute the fate of most die cell throughout the lifespan of an organism [ 4 , 5 ] .
phagocytosis of apoptotic cell be very distinct from other engulfment process that result , for example , in the clearance of microorganism , because engulfment of apoptotic cell trigger the secretion of potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive mediator , whereas pathogen recognition cause the release of pro-inflammatory signal [ 6 ] .
almost all cell type can recognize , respond to , and ingest apoptotic cell by use specific set of phagocytic receptor that bind to specific ligand on apoptotic cell .
detailed genetic study in drosophila and caenorhabditis elegans have recently yield evidence that basic phagocytic mechanism and pathway for the recognition and engulfment of apoptotic cell be highly conserved throughout phylogeny [ 7 , 8 ] .
in vertebrate , a number of receptor have be identify that can mediate phagocytosis of apoptotic cell .
these include , for example , scavenger receptor and pattern recognition receptor such a cd36 , sr - a and cd14 , integrins such a the vitronectin receptor αvβ3 , and member of the collectin family and their receptor cd91 and calreticulin [ 9 - 13 ] .
the individual role of these molecule in binding , phagocytosis or transduction of anti-inflammatory signal upon apoptotic cell recognition have not be well define , however [ 5 , 6 , 14 ] .
the importance of efficient mechanism for apoptotic cell clearance in vivo be support by the observation that autoimmune response can be provoke in mouse when key molecule for apoptotic cell recognition and uptake be missing .
this have be report for knockout mouse lack the complement protein c1q [ 15 ] , for mouse with a mutation in the tyrosine kinase receptor gene mer [ 16 ] and , more recently , in mouse lack transglutaminase 2 or milk fat globule epidermal growth factor 8 ( mfg - e8 ) [ 17 , 18 ] .
the exposure of the phospholipid phosphatidylserine ( p ) in the out leaflet of the plasma membrane of apoptotic cell have be describe a one of the hallmark of the induction of apoptosis and be consider to be one of the most important signal require for apoptotic cell recognition and removal [ 19 ] .
a number of cell - surface and bridging molecule can interact with expose p on apoptotic cell .
these include the serum protein β2 - glycoprotein 1 and protein s [ 20 , 21 ] , the growth - arrest - specific gene product gas - 6 [ 22 ] , complement activation product [ 23 ] , the milk fat globule protein mfg - e8 [ 24 ] , and annexin i [ 25 ] .
in most case the receptor on phagocyte that recognize these p - bridge molecule have not be define , but it have be report that gas - 6 be a ligand for the tyrosine kinase receptor mer and that mfg - e8 can bind to the vitronectin receptor αvβ3 [ 16 , 24 ] .
other molecule that bind p with vary specificity be the lectin - like oxidize low - density lipoprotein receptor - 1 ( lox - 1 ) and the scavenger receptor cd36 and cd68 ( for review see [ 5 ] and reference therein ) .
the best - characterize molecule so far that bind p in a stereo - specific manner be the phosphatidylserine receptor ( ptdsr ) [ 26 ] .
in vitro , it have be show that the ptdsr can mediate the uptake of apoptotic cell and that such ptdsr - mediate phagocytosis can be inhibit through addition of p liposome , the p - bind molecule annexin v or an anti-ptdsr antibody [ 26 ] .
moreover , the binding of ptdsr to p on apoptotic cell have be report to be important for the release of anti-inflammatory mediator , include transform growth factor - β1 ( tgf - β1 ) , platelet - activate factor ( paf ) , and prostaglandin e2 [ 26 , 27 ] .
these data support the hypothesis that ptdsr fulfil a role a a crucial signaling switch after the engagement of macrophage with apoptotic cell and be thereby fundamental for prevent local immune response to apoptotic cell before their clearance [ 28 ] .
very recently , ptdsr have be find in the cell nucleus .
it nuclear localization be mediate by five independent nuclear localization signal , each of which alone be capable of target ptdsr to the cell nucleus [ 29 ] .
moreover , an additional study perform recently in hydra show an exclusively nuclear localization for the ptdsr protein [ 30 ] .
most interestingly , the nuclear localization of ptdsr in hydra epithelial cell do not change upon phagocytosis of apoptotic cell .
these report challenge the original hypothesis , accord to which ptdsr be an exclusively transmembrane receptor for apoptotic cell recognition and anti-inflammatory signaling .
to examine far the role of ptdsr in vivo , we perform gene - expression and gene - targeting study in mouse .
a perinatally lethal phenotype be observe in ptdsr - knockout mouse , and ptdsr - deficient embryo display multiple defect in tissue and organ differentiation .
while this work be in progress , both li et al. [ 31 ] and kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] also report the generation and phenotypic characterization of ptdsr - knockout mouse .
of note , although some of their result be confirm in our study , we find a fundamentally different phenotype with regard to clearance of apoptotic cell .
moreover , our study reveal marked and unexpected finding in ptdsr - deficient mouse that be not related to apoptosis .
result
generation of ptdsr - deficient mouse
to investigate in vivo the function of the phosphatidylserine receptor ptdsr , we generate a null allele in the mouse by gene targeting ( figure 1a , 1b , 1c ) .
in contrast to previously describe ptdsr - knockout mouse [ 31 , 32 ] , we use bruce4 embryonic stem ( e ) cell for gene targeting [ 33 ] , thus generate a ptdsr - null allele in a pure , isogenic c57bl / 6j genetic background .
the newly establish knockout mouse line be name ptdsrtm1gbf ( hereafter refer to a ptdsr - / - ) .
heterozygous ptdsr + / - mouse be viable and fertile and show no obvious abnormality .
ptdsr + / - mouse be intercrossed to generate homozygous ptdsr - deficient mouse .
the absence of ptdsr expression in ptdsr - / - embryo be confirm by rt - pcr ( data not show ) , and by northern and western blotting analysis ( figure 1d , e ) .
interbreeding of heterozygous mouse show that the mutation be lethal , since homozygous mutant be not detect in over 100 analyze litter at weaning .
to determine the stage of embryonic development affect by the ptdsrtm1gbf mutation , time breeding be follow by pcr genotyping ( figure 1c ) of embryo .
we recover few than the expect number of homozygous embryo from intercrosses of ptdsr + / - mouse .
from a total of 1,031 embryo analyze between gestational day ( e ) 9.5 and e18.5 , 198 ( 19.2 % ) ptdsr - deficient homozygous embryo be harvest , indicate that the introduce mutation be associate with a low rate of embryonic lethality in utero .
from e9.5 to e12.5 , ptdsr - / - embryo be viable and of normal size .
at e13.5 and thereafter , however , most ptdsr - / - embryo show morphological abnormality ( table 1 ) .
all homozygous embryo harvest be growth - retard from e13.5 onwards , have a pale appearance , and display multiple developmental dysmorphologies .
these include various head and craniofacial malformation , such a exencephaly , cleft palate and abnormal head shape ( figure 1f , g ) .
gross inspection reveal that eye development be severely affect in 14.1 % of homozygous embryo .
the affect animal display a complete unilateral or bilateral absence of the eye ( table 1 ) that be never detect in ptdsr + / + or ptdsr + / - littermates .
furthermore , homozygous embryo harvest between e12.5 and e15.5 have subcutaneous edema ( figure 1f , g ) .
because we be able to recover ptdsr - / - embryo until e18.5 , we investigate whether ptdsr - knockout mouse could be bear alive .
careful observation of time mating allow u to recover ptdsr - / - neonate , but homozygous pup die during delivery or within minute after birth .
ptdsr - deficient neonate be also growth - retard , have a pale appearance and display various malformation .
these include cleft palate , abnormal head shape , absence of eye and edematous skin ( figure 1h ) .
thus , deletion of the ptdsr gene result in perinatal lethality with variable severity and penetrance of phenotype .
expression of ptdsr during embryogenesis and in adult tissue
the observe perinatal lethality indicate that ptdsr play an important role during development .
analysis by rt - pcr ( data not show ) show that ptdsr be express early in development , because we be able to detect ptdsr transcript in e cell and embryo at all developmental stage .
to analyze in more detail the temporal and spatial expression pattern of ptdsr , and to correlate expression pattern with observe pathological malformation , we make use of a ptdsr - β - geo gene - trap reporter mouse line generate from a ptdsr gene - trap e cell clone .
this line have an insertion of β - galactosidase in the 3 ' region of the gene ( figure 2a ) .
we first examine ptdsr expression by x - gal staining in heterozygous embryo stag from e9.5 to e12.5 .
these developmental stage be choose so a to investigate ptdsr expression in affect organ prior to the onset of pathological malformation in ptdsr - / - embryo .
at e9.5 we find ptdsr expression in the develop neural tube , somite , heart , gut and branchial arch ( figure 2b ) .
at e10.5 , ptdsr expression remain high in the develop nervous system , with most intense staining in the forebrain , hindbrain and neural tube .
at this stage of embryogenesis , high level of ptdsr expression could also be detect in the develop limb bud and eye ( figure 2b ) .
ptdsr expression be alter at e12.5 , with most intensive β - galactosidase staining in the eye , develop condensation of the limb bud , neural tube and brain ( figure 2b ) .
transverse section of x - gal - stain embryo at e12.5 show an asymmetric expression pattern in the neural tube with intense staining of the central mantle layer but no expression in the dorsal part of the neural tube ( for example , the roof plate ; figure 2c ) .
expression in dorsal root ganglion lateral to the neural tube and in the somite be observe ; ptdsr be express throughout the somite structure ( myotome , dermatome and sclerotome ; figure 2d ) .
expression boundary between somite be evident , with no expression in the segmental interzones , which correspond to the prospective intervertebral disc ( figure 2d ) .
transverse section of the develop eye at e12.5 reveal strong ptdsr expression in the inner layer of the neural cup , which will later develop into the neural retina .
furthermore , ptdsr expression be detect in the primary lens fiber cell of the develop lens ( figure 2e ) .
we carefully investigate whether ptdsr be express from e10.5 to e12.5 in the develop kidney and lung , but no expression could be detect indicate that ptdsr expression be require only at late stage in the development of these organ ( see below ) .
hybridization of a multiple - tissue northern blot reveal a single transcript of about 1.8 kb in almost every tissue analyze in adult mouse ( figure 2f ) .
the most prominent expression be observe in testis , thymus , kidney , liver and skin , with moderate to low expression in lung , small intestine , spleen , stomach and skeletal muscle .
thus , ptdsr be ubiquitously express throughout embryogenesis and in adult tissue , although at different level .
ptdsr be require for normal tissue and organ differentiation
we next examine the role of ptdsr in organ development .
serial histological section of ptdsr - / - and control embryo be take to perform a detailed morphological analysis of all organ system during development .
a significant delay in organ and tissue differentiation be observe at e16.5 in lung , kidney and intestine .
lung of control littermates be properly developed with expand alveolus ( figure 3a ) .
terminal bronchus and bronchiole be already well developed , and terminally differentiate epithelial cell with cilium on the luminal cell surface be present .
in contrast , almost no alveolus or bronchiole be present in ptdsr - / - lung , indicate a delay or arrest in lung sacculation and expansion .
instead , we observe an abundance of mesenchyme that appear highly immature ( figure 3g ) .
a similar delay in tissue differentiation of ptdsr - / - embryo be find in the kidney ( figure 3h ) .
kidney from ptdsr + / + embryo be well developed at e16.5 , show terminally differentiate glomerulus with bowman 's capsule and collect tubule line with cuboidal epithelial cell ( figure 3b ) .
in contrast , ptdsr - deficient kidney have only primitive glomerulus at e16.5 , and collect tubule be less well - developed .
instead , a large amount of undifferentiated mesenchyme be present in ptdsr - / - kidney ( figure 3h ) .
a delay in tissue differentiation be also find in the intestine at this stage of development .
ptdsr - / - embryo display improperly develop villus and an underdeveloped or absent submucosa ( figure 3i ) .
in wild - type embryo ( figure 3c ) , intestinal cellular differentiation be already highly organized , with intramural ganglion cell between the external and internal muscular layer .
such neuronal cell be absent from the intestine of ptdsr - / - embryo ( figure 3i ) , however .
some ptdsr - / - mouse ( 4.5 % ) also display extensive brain malformation that result in externally visible head abnormality , with occasional ectopic tissue outside the skull or exencephaly ( figure 1f , h ) .
histological analysis reveal an extensive hyperplasia of brain tissue with herniation of brain tissue either through the skull - cap or through the ventral skull ( figure 3d , j ) .
in the most severe case , expansion of brain tissue in mutant mouse result in further perturbation of cortical structure ( figure 3d , j ) .
of note , a similar brain phenotype be observe in the ptdsr - deficient mouse line generate by li and colleague [ 31 ] .
in contrast to the study of li et al. [ 31 ] , however , we find almost normally develop lung at birth .
ptdsr - / - lung show , in comparison to wild - type , only a slight delay in maturation and be fully ventilated in neonate in most case ( figure 3e , k ) .
this demonstrate that ptdsr - deficient mouse can overcome the delay in embryonic lung differentiation and display normal lung morphology at birth .
thus , it would appear highly unlikely that ptdsr - / - mouse die from respiratory failure .
consistent with the observation of kunisaki and colleague [ 32 ] , we find severely block erythropoietic differentiation at an early erythroblast stage in the liver ( figure 3f , 3l ) , suggest an explanation for the grossly anemic appearance that we observe in our ptdsr - / - mouse .
loss of ptdsr activity be associate with defect in ocular development and can lead to formation of ectopic eye structure
by gross morphology we could differentiate two class of ptdsr mutant : those that appear normal with both eye present ( figure 4 ) and those that be severely affect and display uni - or bilateral anophthalmia ( figure 5 ) .
analysis of normal or mildly affect embryo reveal no difference between mutant and wild - type embryo in the differentiation of the develop eye until e16.5 .
in both genotype , inner and out layer of the retina display a comparable differentiation status , a show , for example , at e12.5 ( figure 4a , e ) .
at day e16.5 , however , retinal layer in ptdsr - / - embryo be much thin than in wild - type embryo , contain few cell and be greatly reduce in size ( figure 4b , f ) .
comparison of the retinal structure of ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - embryo reveal that all four retinal layer be present in ptdsr - knockout mouse at e16.5 ( figure 4b , f ) .
at e18.5 ( figure 4c , g ) and in neonatal animal ( postnatal day p0 ; figure 4d , h ) , the difference in retinal differentiation between ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - mouse be still evident , but the size reduction of the retinal layer be less pronounced in the knockout mouse .
ptdsr - deficient animal seem to have compensate for the marked delay in cellular differentiation and expansion of retinal layer .
close examination of retinal structure reveal that the inner granular layer be still less expand in ptdsr - deficient animal , however , and that it contain few cell and be still severely underdeveloped in comparison with the correspond retinal layer in control animal ( figure 4c , 4g and 4d , 4h ) .
thus , even mildly affect ptdsr - / - mutant have ocular malformation with defect in differentiation of retinal structure .
we next examine ptdsr - / - embryo that display unilateral or bilateral absence of eye ( figure 5a ) by serial sectioning of whole embryo .
these embryo show complex malformation of the optical cup , include absence of the lens ( figure 5b ) .
most surprisingly , we find pigment epithelial cell in the nasal cavity of all ptdsr - knockout mouse with anophthalmia that be analyze histopathologically .
we could identify black - color pigment cell embed in the epithelium of the maxillary sinus that resemble presumptive retinal - pigment epithelium ( figure 5b , c ) .
examination of consecutive serial section reveal the formation of a primitive eye structure , with induction and subsequent proliferation of ectopic mesenchymal tissue immediately adjacent to the displace pigment epithelium ( figure 5d ) .
this structure be clearly induce ectopically , and we fail to identify similar change in any of the wild - type embryo .
in summary , we observe a wide range of ocular malformation in ptdsr - deficient mouse that range from differentiation defect in retinal cell layer ( for example , the inner granular layer ) in mildly affect homozygote to anophthalmia in severely affect ptdsr - / - mouse that be associate with induction of ectopic eye structure in nasal cavity .
phagocytosis and clearance of apoptotic cell be normal in ptdsr - deficient mouse
we next test whether ptdsr be functionally require for the clearance of apoptotic cell .
we start with an investigation of cell death in vivo in the interdigital area of the develop limb .
apoptosis of interdigital cell in the distal mesenchyme of limb bud occur most prominently from developmental stage e12.0 to e13.5 and can be easily examine in situ by whole - mount terminal deoxynucleotide transferase - mediate utp end - label ( tunel ) .
we compare the pattern of interdigital cell death in fore and hind limb bud from ptdsr - / - ( n = 3 ) and ptdsr + / + ( n = 3 ) mouse at e12.5 and e13.5 .
no difference in accumulation of tunel - positive cell corps be observe between the two genotype ( figure 6a ) .
the kinetics of cell death occurrence and regression of the interdigital web be similar in wild - type and mutant littermates , provide no evidence that ptdsr - deficiency be associate with impaired clearance of apoptotic interdigital cell during limb development .
to investigate far whether removal of apoptotic cell be impair in ptdsr - / - mouse , we stain immunohistochemically for activate caspase 3 ( acasp3 ) and analyze additional organ and tissue where apoptosis play a crucial role in tissue remodeling during development .
start at e12.5 , we analyze and compare the number and distribution of acasp3 - positive cell in over 140 serial section of three wild - type and six ptdsr - / - embryo in consecutive and corresponding section .
the sagittal section be separate by 5 μm , allow a detailed analysis of apoptosis in several organ and tissue .
tissue restructuring by program cell death occur most notably within the ventral part of the neural tube ( figure 6b , f ) and in the develop paravertebral ganglion ( figure 6d , h ) with many apoptotic cell be present .
in these tissue ptdsr be highly express at e12.5 ( figure 2c ) but we observe no difference in the number or distribution of apoptotic cell in ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - embryo .
the same be true for the develop kidney : apoptotic cell be present in ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - embryo , in limited number , but we fail to detect any difference in the number of apoptotic cell between the genotype ( figure 6c , 6g ) .
furthermore , when we continue our analysis of apoptotic cell clearance in vivo at e16.5 , e17.5 and e18.5 of embryonic development as well a in neonatal mouse , the number and distribution of apoptotic cell be similar in both genotype .
a already observe at e12.5 , analysis of acasp3 - stain section of the develop thymus , heart , diaphragm , genital ridge , eye and retina convincingly show that there be no impairment in apoptotic cell removal in ptdsr - / - mouse .
moreover , because li and colleague [ 31 ] report impaired clearance of dead cell during lung development in ptdsr - deficient mouse , we examine the rate of apoptosis induction and cell clearance in our ptdsr - knockout mouse in the lung .
analysis of acasp3 - stain lung tissue from ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - mouse at e17.5 and p0 demonstrate that apoptosis be an extremely rare event during lung morphogenesis at this stage .
in addition , there be no difference in the number or distribution of apoptotic cell in ptdsr - / - and ptdsr + / + mouse .
furthermore , we be unable to detect any evidence of tissue necrosis in lung from ptdsr - deficient mouse .
in contrast to the report of li et al. [ 31 ] , we never observe recruitment of neutrophil or other sign of pulmonary inflammation at any stage of development in our ptdsr - deficient mouse .
to analyze whether macrophage be recruit into area where apoptosis be prominent during embryogenesis , we stain consecutive serial section either with the macrophage surface marker f4 / 80 or with acasp3 .
surprisingly , there be no co-localization of macrophage with apoptotic cell .
in virtually all embryonic tissue , apoptotic cell and macrophage be localize in different compartment ( figure 6e , 6i ; and see also additional data file 1 , figure s1 ) .
this suggest that at this stage of development it be mainly neighbor cell that be involve in removal of apoptotic cell , rather than professional macrophage .
in summary , our analysis in vivo do not reveal any impairment in apoptotic cell clearance in ptdsr - deficient embryo during development and far suggest that phagocytosis of apoptotic cell be mainly mediate by non-professional ' bystander ' cell .
to determine whether macrophage from ptdsr - knockout mouse be impair in the efficacy of apoptotic cell uptake in vitro , we perform phagocytosis assay with fetal - liver - derive macrophage ( fldms ) and quantify their phagocytosis rate .
phagocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes be investigate at 60 , 90 and 120 minute after addition of target cell in the absence of serum .
analysis of phagocytosis rate by flow cytometric analysis ( facs ) reveal no difference in the efficacy of apoptotic cell uptake between ptdsr - / - and ptdsr + / + macrophage and demonstrate no difference in apoptotic cell engulfment between select time point ( data not show ) .
to re-examine and far independently validate the result of normal apoptotic cell uptake by ptdsr - / - macrophage , we perform phagocytosis assay for 60 min and determine the percentage of macrophage that have engulf apoptotic cell , in a total of at least 300 macrophage count by fluorescence microscopy .
phagocytosed , 5 - carboxytetramethylrhodamine - ( tamra - ) label apoptotic cell be identify a be engulf by inclusion in f4 / 80 - label macrophage .
analysis be do independently by three investigator who be not aware of macrophage genotype ( ptdsr - / - or ptdsr + / + ) .
again , no difference be find in the percentage of macrophage that have engulf apoptotic cell ( figure 7a , c , e ) or in the relative number of phagocytosed apoptotic cell per macrophage ( phagocytotic index ; figure 7f ) .
moreover , single ptdsr - / - macrophage could be identify that have engulf even more apoptotic target cell than have wild - type macrophage ( figure 7b , d ) .
thus , ptdsr - deficient macrophage have a normal ability to ingest apoptotic cell and be not impair in recognition or phagocytosis of cell that have undergo program cell death .
ptdsr - deficiency result in reduce production of pro - and anti-inflammatory cytokine after macrophage stimulation
in addition to it suggested importance for phagocytosis of apoptotic cell , it have be propose that ptdsr fulfil a second crucial role in regulate and maintain a non-inflammatory environment upon the recognition of apoptotic cell by macrophage [ 26 ] .
we therefore test whether ptdsr - / - macrophage be able to release anti-inflammatory cytokine after ingestion of apoptotic cell .
we examine level of tgf - β1 and interleukin - 10 ( il - 10 ) after stimulation of fldms with lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , with and without co-culture of apoptotic cell .
quantification of tgf - β1 and il - 10 level after 22 hour of culture demonstrate that ptdsr - / - macrophage be able to secrete these anti-inflammatory cytokine upon ingestion of apoptotic cell , although at a slightly low level than wild - type ( figure 8a , b ) .
this indicate that ablation of ptdsr function do not compromise in general the ability of macrophage to release immune - suppressive cytokine after recognition and engulfment of apoptotic cell .
to analyze whether pro-inflammatory signaling be affect in ptdsr - / - macrophage , we stimulate fldms from ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - mouse with lp and measure level of tumor necrosis factor - α ( tnf - α ) at different time point after stimulation ( figure 8c ) .
ptdsr - / - macrophage produce significantly less tnf - α than do wild - type macrophage .
the difference in tnf - α secretion be first visible after 3 h of lp stimulation and become more prominent during the course of the experiment ( for example , after 9 h and 12 h of lp stimulation ; figure 8c ) .
to analyze whether tnf - α release by ptdsr - / - macrophage can be affect by engulfment of apoptotic cell , we stimulate fldms with lp , apoptotic cell or both .
quantification of tnf - α level by elisa after 22 h show that ptdsr - deficient macrophage release less tnf - α after stimulation with lp alone , and also after double stimulation of macrophage with lp and apoptotic cell ( figure 8d ) .
moreover , the double stimulation demonstrate that the lp - induce tnf - α release by ptdsr - / - macrophage could be inhibit by co-administration of apoptotic cell to an extent comparable to that see in wild - type macrophage .
similar result be obtain when other pro-inflammatory cytokine , such a interleukin - 6 and monocyte chemoattractant protein - 1 , be analyze ( data not show ) .
these result indicate that ptdsr be not require in macrophage for the inhibition of pro-inflammatory signaling after recognition and engulfment of apoptotic cell .
ptdsr - deficiency do , however , affect the overall release of pro - and anti-inflammatory cytokine after stimulation with lp and after double treatment with lp and apoptotic cell , indicate that ptdsr - deficient macrophage have a reduce capacity to produce or secrete pro - and anti-inflammatory cytokine .
discussion
ptdsr be require for the differentiation of multiple organ system during development
in this study , we have generate a null mutation in the phosphatidylserine receptor ( ptdsr ) gene in c57bl / 6j mouse .
we show that ablation of ptdsr result in profound differentiation defect in multiple organ and tissue during embryogenesis , although with variable penetrance .
while this work be in progress , two other group report the generation of ptdsr - deficient mouse [ 31 , 32 ] .
in all three knockout mouse line , the first two exon ( [ 31 ] and this study ) or exon one to three [ 32 ] be delete by replacement with a neomycin - selection cassette .
the ptdsr - knockout mouse line differ in the genetic background in which the mutation be generate and maintain , however .
in our case , the ptdsr - null allele be generate in an isogenic c57bl / 6j background , whereas li et al. [ 31 ] and kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] investigate the phenotype of their ptdsr - knockout mouse in a mix 129 × c57bl / 6 background .
the ablation of ptdsr function result in perinatal lethality in all case , but there be interesting difference in severity or expressivities of phenotype among the different ptdsr - deficient mouse line .
this might be due either to difference in genetic background or because the phenotype that have be investigate in this study have not be analyze in such detail before .
in the ptdsr - knockout mouse line report here , growth retardation start from e12.5 onwards and be associate with delay differentiation in several organ in which ptdsr be express either during embryogenesis or later in adulthood .
at e16.5 almost no branching morphogenesis of the lung epithelium be observe in ptdsr - / - lung .
similarly , epithelial structure be only partially develop in mutant kidney , without terminal differentiation of bowman 's capsule and with a severe reduction in the number of differentiate collecting tubule .
likewise , the differentiation of the intestine be also severely delay at this developmental stage .
when compare with wild - type control , intestinal tissue of ptdsr knockout mouse appear unstructured , with an absence of enteric ganglion and of differentiate smooth muscle tissue .
interestingly , defect in kidney and intestine differentiation be not describe in the ptdsr - knockout generate by li et al. [ 31 ] and kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] .
surprisingly , when we examine ptdsr - / - embryo shortly before birth ( e18.5 ) or neonatally , we find only mild differentiation delay in organ that appear severely affected at mid-gestation .
this ' recovery ' be most visible in ptdsr - / - lung : at p0 we find expand lung in the knockout mouse that show normal branching pattern , with differentiate alveolus and bronchiole .
we investigate the occurrence of program cell death during lung development in wild - type and ptdsr - knockout mouse throughout embryogenesis ( e16.5 to p0 ) .
comparative immunohistochemistry for acasp3 reveal that apoptosis be a rare event during lung morphogenesis .
furthermore , we fail to detect any difference in the number of apoptotic cell in ptdsr - knockout and wild - type animal in the rare case where we could detect apoptotic cell within lung tissue .
these finding be contrary to the result report by li et al. [ 31 ] , who suggest that impaired clearance of apoptotic mesenchymal and epithelial cell cause a failure in lung morphogenesis in ptdsr - deficient mouse .
in contrast , our finding be in line with the current view on lung development during embryogenesis .
accordingly , formation of the epithelial lung via branching morphogenesis can be subdivide into a series of sequential step that involve : first , formation of the organ anlage in the form of a placode ; second , primary bud formation by placode invagination ; third , branch initiation and branch outgrowth ; fourth , further reiteration of the branching process ; and fifth , terminal differentiation of organ - specific proximal and distal structure [ 34 , 35 ] .
in contrast to other invagination process during embryogenesis , such a mammary gland formation , the lumen of the lung be expand by successive branching event , branch outgrowth and elongation , rather than by apoptosis [ 34 , 36 ] .
finally , because the lung of ptdsr - / - neonate be almost fully expand and appear normal in structure in comparison to wild - type littermates , it be highly unlikely that ptdsr mutant die of respiratory lung failure .
in addition , li and colleague [ 31 ] demonstrate that surfactant expression be normal in ptdsr - deficient animal , support the idea of normal maturation of surfactant - produce type ii alveolar epithelial cell and lung function .
other defect must therefore be responsible for the death of ptdsr - mutant mouse .
the frequently observe subcutaneous edema of various extent in ptdsr - deficient homozygote give u a hint that ptdsr - deficiency and lethality might be associate with cardiovascular problem .
indeed , very recently we have obtain strong evidence that ptdsr - knockout mouse die a a result of defect in heart development that be associate with specific cardiopulmonary malformation ; ( j.e. schneider , j.b. , s.d. bamfort , a.d.g. , c. broadbent , k. clarke , s. neubauer , a.l. and s. battacharya , unpublished observation ) .
in addition , we demonstrate that eye development require a functional ptdsr gene .
ptdsr - deficient embryo can be roughly divide into two category .
the first , severely affect group develop anophthalmia that correlate with formation of ectopic retinal - pigment epithelium and induction of proliferation of underlie mesenchyme in the nasal cavity .
this phenotype represent a completely novel lesion that to our knowledge have not be describe before in any other mouse mutant .
the second group show normal external eye structure , although in this case retinal development be temporally delay during mid-gestation , with persistent , abnormal morphogenesis of the inner granular retinal layer at late stage of embryogenesis .
a possible explanation for these two phenotype can be find in the expression pattern of the ptdsr gene .
initially , ptdsr be express throughout the whole develop nervous system , with exceptionally high level in the anterior part of the forebrain .
late expression become more restricted to the develop retina and lens .
thus , ptdsr might play an important role in early event of ocular morphogenesis , such a establishment and bisection of eye field and formation of optic cup .
these early eye - formation step be closely interconnect with development of the forebrain [ 37 , 38 ] and the nose [ 39 - 41 ] .
interestingly , we occasionally observe serious malformation of forebrain and nasal structure in ptdsr - knockout embryo that be associate with bilateral anophthalmia ( see for example the mutant embryo in figure 1g ) .
this suggest that ptdsr be involve in the regulation of differentiation process within forebrain region , and that ablation of ptdsr function might secondarily affect early eye formation .
li et al. [ 31 ] find small lens in ptdsr - knockout mouse and describe the formation of retinal protrusion , although anophthalmia and specific differentiation defect of retinal cell layer be not report in their study .
li et al. propose [ 31 ] that the eye phenotype they observe could be explain by failed removal of apoptotic cell during eye development , but we think that the observe defect be unrelated to a failure of apoptotic cell clearance .
a recent comprehensive kinetic analysis of apoptosis induction during mouse retinal development describe four major peak of apoptotic cell death [ 42 ] .
this study demonstrate that there be an initial phase of cell death during the invagination of the optic cup ( e10.5 ) , follow by subsequent wave of apoptosis induction immediately before and after birth ( e18.5 to postnatal day p2 ) , and from postnatal day p9 to p10 and p14 to p16 [ 42 ] .
thus , besides the formation of the inner and out layer of the optic cup in early eye development , other major phase of retinal cell apoptosis take place only postnatally and correspond to important period in the establishment of neuronal connection .
furthermore , cell death during normal retinal development occur in retinal layer distinct from the inner granular layer where we observe the most pronounced differentiation defect in the ptdsr - / - mutant describe here .
other study that connect the postnatal elimination of apoptotic photoreceptor cell to ptdsr - mediate macrophage engulfment [ 43 ] should be interpret with extreme caution a these study be base on the monoclonal anti-ptdsr antibody mab 217g8e9 [ 26 , 43 ] ( see below ) .
consistent with the result of li et al. [ 31 ] , we find particular brain malformation in our ptdsr - / - mouse .
exencephaly and hyperplastic brain phenotype be observe at a low penetrance in ptdsr - mutant mouse ( less then 4.5 % of homozygote ) , but these do not resemble to any extent the brain - overgrowth phenotype of caspase - or apaf1 - knockout mouse ( [ 44 ] , and reference therein ) in that we fail to identify any difference in the number or distribution of apoptotic cell or pyknotic cell cluster in the neuroepithelium of ptdsr - / - and ptdsr + / + mouse .
thus , reduce cell death or diminish clearance of apoptotic neural progenitor cell be unlikely to be the cause of the brain hyperplasia .
in summary , our study demonstrate that ptdsr be require for normal tissue differentiation , especially during the mid-gestation period when we observe the most severe differentiation delay in several organ of ptdsr - knockout mouse .
the multiple defect in tissue differentiation can not be explain by failure of apoptotic cell clearance , a this process be normal in our ptdsr - knockout line .
this result therefore indicate that ptdsr have a novel , hitherto unexpected , role in promote tissue maturation and terminal differentiation .
additional study with conditionally target ptdsr - deficient mouse be require to investigate the role of spatial and temporal ptdsr expression and function during tissue differentiation .
ptdsr be not essential for the clearance of apoptotic cell
our study demonstrate that ptdsr be not a primary receptor for the uptake of apoptotic cell .
investigation of apoptotic cell clearance in vivo in ptdsr - / - embryo conclusively show that removal of apoptotic cell be not compromise by ablation of ptdsr function .
comparative analysis of ten different tissue and organ in ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - animal at several stage of embryonic development and in neonate fail to identify impaired uptake of apoptotic cell at any time during development .
furthermore , phagocytosis assay in vitro demonstrate a completely normal uptake of apoptotic cell by ptdsr - / - macrophage , with some knockout macrophage show load even high than wild - type of engulf dead cell .
these result be contrary to the expect role of ptdsr in apoptotic cell clearance and to the report finding of li et al. [ 31 ] and kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] , as well a to a study do with a phosphatidylserine receptor null allele in c. elegans [ 45 ] .
in previous study in the mouse , the distribution and amount of apoptotic cell in ptdsr - knockout and control animal be investigate in only a few tissue and at one [ 31 ] or two [ 32 ] developmental stage .
li et al. [ 31 ] examine lung , midbrain and retina at day e17.5 of gestation and identify apoptotic cell by tunel staining .
their finding must be interpret with caution because remodeling of cellular structure by apoptosis in specific retina layer be know to occur mainly postnatally [ 42 ] , and apoptosis play an important physiological role in the maintenance and homeostasis of lung epithelium after birth or in pathological condition involve pulmonary inflammation and not during lung development [ 46 ] .
this postnatal role for apoptosis be in accordance with our data , a we rarely observe apoptotic cell in retina or lung tissue throughout embryogenesis in ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - mouse .
kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] analyze tunel - stain section of liver and thymus at day e13.5 and e16.5 of development in ptdsr + / - and ptdsr - / - embryo and find reduce rather than increase number of tunel - positive cell in ptdsr - deficient embryo .
use co-localization of tunel - positive cell with f4 / 80 - positive macrophage they suggest that ptdsr - / - embryo exhibit a three-fold increase in the frequency of unphagocytosed tunel - positive cell together with a severely reduce number of f4 / 80 - positive cell .
these result must be interpret very carefully , however , a it be technically difficult to unambiguously identify engulf target cell in individual macrophage in solid tissue by fluorescence microscopy .
in addition , our data suggest that during embryogenesis , macrophage - mediate clearance of apoptotic cell be not the only - or even the primary - mechanism for the removal of apoptotic cell .
in many tissue where program cell death occur a a prominent event during embryogenesis , such a remodel of the genital ridge during gonad morphogenesis and differentiation of the neural tube , we find almost no co-localization of apoptotic cell and macrophage .
this indicate that in these case clearance of apoptotic cell be directly mediate by neighbor ' bystander ' cell rather than by macrophage that have be recruit into area where apoptosis occur .
obviously these in vivo clearance mechanism be not compromise by ptdsr - deficiency in our knockout mutant .
this finding be in line with study in macrophageless sfpi1 - knockout embryo that be deficient for the hematopoietic - lineage - specific transcription factor pu.1 .
here , the phagocytosis of apoptotic cell during embryogenesis be take over by ' stand - in ' mesenchymal neighbor [ 47 ] .
a recognition of phosphatidylserine be think to be a universal engulfment mechanism for all cell that be able to phagocytose apoptotic cell , it be very striking that apoptotic cell clearance mediate by non-professional bystander cell be also not compromise by ptdsr - deficiency .
in contrast to li et al. [ 31 ] , we do not observe any impairment in the uptake of apoptotic cell by ptdsr - / - macrophage in vitro .
we perform phagocytosis assay in vitro with fetal - liver - derive macrophage , while in their assay , li and colleague use thioglycollate - elicit peritoneal macrophage after adoptive transfer of ptdsr - / - hematopoietic stem cell .
the different result obtain in the two study be puzzling ; they might be due to the use of different macrophage or cell population .
we and kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] find that ptdsr - deficiency be to some extent associate with defect in hematopoiesis .
thus , it seem possible that recruitment and activation / differentiation of macrophage after adoptive transfer and thioglycollate elicitation be affect by ptdsr - deficiency .
we do not think that the different result observe in ptdsr - knockout mouse in a mixed c57bl / 6 × 129 background and in a pure c57bl / 6j background can be attribute to genetic background effect : comparison of apoptotic cell engulfment efficacy of thioglycollate - elicit macrophage from 129p2 / olahsd and c57bl / 6j mouse do not show any difference in apoptotic cell uptake ( j.b. and a.l. , unpublished observation ) .
moreover , in contrast to our study , neither li et al. [ 31 ] nor kunisaki et al. [ 32 ] determine phagocytotic engulfment index for ptdsr - deficient macrophage .
interestingly , we observe difference between ptdsr + / + and ptdsr - / - macrophage in the secretion of pro - and anti-inflammatory cytokine after stimulation with lp and apoptotic cell .
this provide evidence that cellular activation and effector mechanism be impair in ptdsr - delete macrophage .
it remain to be determine which classical pathway of macrophage activation and function involve ptdsr .
this be especially important in light of recent finding that demonstrate nuclear localization of the ptdsr protein [ 29 ] .
most strikingly , the recently publish data regard the genetic ablation or perturbation of phosphatidylserine receptor function in c. elegans be also contradictory .
wang et al. [ 45 ] report that psr - 1 , the c. elegans homolog of ptdsr , be important for cell - corpse engulfment , whereas psr - 1 rnai study perform by arur et al. [ 25 ] yield , in this respect , no phenotype .
moreover , wang and colleague hypothesize on the basis of their data that psr - 1 might act to transduce an engulfment signal upstream of ced - 2 ( crk ii ) , ced - 5 ( dock 180 ) , ced - 10 ( rac 1 ) and ced - 12 ( elmo ) in one of the two cell - corpse engulfment pathway in the worm [ 45 ] .
but the loss - of - function phenotype of psr - 1 mutant and the complementation phenotype in overexpressing transgenic worm show by wang et al. [ 45 ] be rather weak a compare to the classical c. elegans engulfment mutant [ 8 ] .
many previous functional study that report a requirement for ptdsr for the phagocytosis of apoptotic cell use the monoclonal anti-ptdsr antibody mab 217g8e9 [ 26 ] .
this antibody be use in ptdsr binding and blocking experiment , as well a in subcellular localization study , which lead to the conclusion that ptdsr be a transmembrane receptor critical for signal transduction at the engulfment interface .
more recently it be use in binding assay to show that the human and worm ptdsr molecule can recognize phosphatidylserine [ 45 ] .
in the course of the study present here , we stain immunohistochemically for ptdsr with mab 217g8e9 on wild - type and ptdsr - deficient macrophage and fibroblast ( see additional data file 1 , figure s2 and data not show ) .
to our surprise , we observe similar staining pattern with cell of both genotype .
furthermore , use a ptdsr - peptide array we find that mab 217g8e9 can bind weakly to a ptdsr peptide , explain the original isolation of ptdsr cdna clone by phage display [ 26 ] ; but the antibody mainly recognize additional , as - yet unknown , membrane - associate protein ( s ) ( see additional data file 1 , figure s2 ) .
experiment that have use this antibody should therefore be interpret with great caution a they might come to be view in a different light .
conclusion
our result demonstrate that ptdsr be essential for the differentiation and maturation of multiple tissue during embryogenesis .
ablation of ptdsr function result in neonatal lethality and severe defect in the morphogenesis of several organ .
the developmental malformation can not be explain by impaired clearance of apoptotic cell , a process that prove to be normal in ptdsr - deficient mouse .
this open up the possibility either that there be an as - yet unknown ptdsr receptor , which might act a a primary phosphatidylserine recognition receptor , or that recognition of phosphatidylserine and subsequent apoptotic cell engulfment and anti-inflammatory signaling be mainly mediate through phosphatidylserine bridging protein and their cognate receptor .
although ptdsr - / - macrophage be not impair in their ability to phagocytose apoptotic cell , they show reduce cytokine response after stimulation .
further work will be require to determine the molecular mechanism of these newly recognize ptdsr function during development .
material and method
construction of the targeting vector and generation of ptdsr - knockout and gene - trap mouse
targeting vector
a ptdsr - contain bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) clone ( genbank accession number ac091694 ; rp - 23 - 316f3 ) be isolate by sequence homology from a c57bl / 6j genomic bac library ( rp - 23 ; bacpac resource , oakland , usa ) .
a 14.5 kb kpni / bamhi fragment contain the entire ptdsr locus and 5 ' and 3 ' flanking region be subcloned from this bac clone and a 1.9 kb rsrii / aatii fragment contain exon i and ii of the ptdsr gene be replace by a 1.2 kb loxp - flank neomycin - resistance gene cassette ( neo ) .
homologous recombination in e cell and generation of germ - line chimera
bruce4 e cell be transfected with kpni - linearize targeting vector and select with g418 .
e - cell clone resistant to g418 be isolate and analyze by southern blot analysis for homologous recombination event within the ptdsr locus .
chimeric mouse be produce by microinjection of two independent homologous recombinant ( ptdsr + / - ) e cell into balb / c blastocyst and transfer to pseudopregnant foster mother follow by development to term .
chimeric male be mat with c57bl / 6j female .
from the two select e - cell clone , one successfully contribute to the germ - line .
germ - line transmission of the mutant allele be verify by pcr and southern blot of genomic dna from black coat - color f1 offspring .
ptdsr gene - trap and generation of germ - line chimera
an e - cell line carry a β - geo gene - trap vector in the ptdsr locus be identify by search the baygenomics database ( baygenomics , san francisco , usa ; [ 48 ] ) with the full - length ptdsr cdna .
a single e - cell line be identify carry the gene - trap in intron v , between exon v and vi of the ptdsr gene .
chimeric mouse be generate by microinjection into cb20 blastocyst and transfer to pseudopregnant foster mother .
chimeric male be mat with 129p2 / olahsd female .
germ - line transmission of the mutant gene - trap allele be verify by expression analysis use β - galactosidase staining and rt - pcr .
genotype analysis
the genotype of embryo or animal be determine by pcr analysis and confirm by southern blot .
genomic dna for pcr be prepare from extraembryonic membrane or tail clip use a non-organic tail - dna extraction protocol [ 49 ] .
high molecular weight genomic dna for southern blotting be prepare accord to standard protocol .
for pcr analysis the wild - type ptdsr allele be detect use forward primer 1 ( 5 ' - gacactgtccatggcaaacac - 3 ' ) and reverse primer 2 ( 5 ' - taaagtcgccttccagaagatt - 3 ' ) .
the primer 1 site be locate 5 ' to the deletion and the primer 2 site within the deletion .
this primer pair amplify a fragment of approximately 300 bp from wild - type and ptdsr + / - mouse but not from ptdsr - / - mutant .
to detect the mutant ptdsr allele , genomic dna be also amplify use primer 1 and reverse primer 3 ( 5 ' - ccacacgcgtcaccttaata - 3 ' ) , which correspond to a sequence in the neo cassette .
in this case , a 500 bp fragment be detect in mouse heterozygous or homozygous for the mutant allele , while no signal be detect in wild - type mouse .
for southern blot analysis , genomic dna ( 30 μg ) be digest overnight with bamhi ( 30 u ; roche diagnostics gmbh , mannheim , germany ) and scai ( 30 u ; roche ) , fractionate on a 0.8 % agarose gel , transfer to a nylon membrane ( hybond n ; amersham bioscience europe gmbh , freiburg , germany ) and hybridize with 5 ' and 3 ' flanking probe .
the bamhi digest be hybridize with a ptdsr - specific 5 ' flanking probe , and southern blot give a single 17.2 kb band for wild - type ( + / + ) , an 11.6 kb band for homozygous ( - / - ) and both band for heterozygous ( + / - ) mouse .
the scai digest be hybridize use a 3 ' flanking probe , and southern blot give a single 12.4 kb band for wild - type , a 17.2 kb band for homozygous and both band for heterozygous mouse .
northern blot analysis
total rna be isolate from homogenize embryo use trizol reagent ( invitrogen gmbh , karlsruhe , germany ) .
for northern blot , either total rna ( 30 μg ) be extract from embryo , electrophoresed and transfer to a nylon membrane ( hybond n ; amersham ) or a polya+ rna northern blot ( origene technology inc. , rockville , usa ) be hybridize use a the probe a ptdsr fragment amplify from wild - type cdna use forward primer 5 ' - gttccagctcgtcagactcg - 3 ' and reverse primer 5 ' - tgcccctaagacatgaccac - 3 ' .
in all experiment the same membrane be re-hybridized with a β - actin probe ( origene ) to confirm that equivalent rna level be present in each lane .
northern blotting indicate that homozygous mutant embryo do not express ptdsr mrna and heterozygous mutant embryo express only reduce amount of ptdsr mrna .
western blot analysis
embryo ( e13.5 ) for protein isolation be homogenize in lysis buffer contain 1 × pb , 1 % nonidet p - 40 , 0.5 % sodium deoxycholate , 0.1 % sd and protease inhibitor cocktail ( completemini ; roche ) .
equal amount ( 25 μg ) of protein lysate be separate by sd - polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and transfer onto a pvdf membrane ( millipore , billerica , usa ) accord to standard protocol .
western blot be do use a specific antibody to ptdsr ( psr n - 20 , sc - 11632 ; santa cruz biotechnology inc. , santa cruz , usa ) and β - actin ( ab - 6276 ; abcam , cambridge , uk ) a describe by the supplier .
secondary antibody conjugate to horseradish peroxidase be from santa cruz and abcam , use a describe by the supplier , and detection be perform with an enhance chemiluminescence system ( eclplus ; amersham ) .
animal experiment
wild - type c57bl / 6j and 129p2 / olahsd mouse be obtain from jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , usa ) and harlan uk ( bicester , uk ) , respectively .
all mouse be house in individually ventilate cage in a specific pathogen - free environment with a 12 h light - dark cycle and be feed a regular unrestricted diet .
the gbf 's routine surveillance program screen for select pathogen .
the ptdsrtm1gbf mutant be cross to c57bl / 6j mouse to establish the co-isogenic c57bl / 6j - ptdsrtm1gbf mouse line .
all study be approve by the appropriate authority .
isolation of embryo
heterozygous male and female mouse be intercrossed in order to obtain ptdsr - deficient progeny .
female be daily monitor for vaginal plug , and noon of the day of plug detection be define a e0.5 .
embryo at indicate time point be dissect in sterile pb , wash in ice - cold pb and transfer to cold fixative .
extra-embryonic membrane be keep and use for genotyping .
ptdsr - / - embryo and their wild - type littermates be use for experiment .
histology , tunel staining and immunohistochemistry
embryo for histology and immunohistochemistry be harvest and fix in 10 % neutral - buffer formalin , dehydrate through a graded series of alcohol , embed in paraffin , sagittally section at 5 μm interval , and every fifth section be process for hematoxylin and eosin ( h & e ) staining accord to standard protocol .
remain section of wild - type and ptdsr - / - specimen be use for immunohistochemistry .
for detection of apoptotic cell and macrophage , anti-acasp3 ( an antibody specific for activate caspase 3 ; r & d system , minneapolis , usa ) and anti-f4 / 80 ( serotec gmbh , düsseldorf , germany ; # mca 1957 ) antibody be use a describe by the supplier .
detection be perform use indirect streptavidin with biotinylated secondary antibody and cobalt - enhance diaminobenzidine ( brown ) or fast - red ( red ) a chromogen .
section be counterstained with hematoxylin .
for whole - mount terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediate utp end labeling ( tunel ) , limb bud be dissect from e12.5 and e13.5 embryo , fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde and process for analysis a previously describe [ 50 ] .
preparation of fetal liver - derive macrophage ( fldms )
fetal liver be excise from embryo at e12.5 and e13.5 , respectively , wash in pb and dissociate enzymatically for 60 min at 37 °c .
the digestion buffer ( 150 μl per liver ) comprise 0.6 u / ml dispase i ( roche ) , 0.1 % collagenase d ( roche ) , 10 u dnase ( roche ) , and 20 % fcs in pb .
x - vivo 15 medium ( cambrex , east rutherford , usa ) be add to the result cell suspension , and after centrifugation ( 200 × g ; 3 min ) cell be resuspend in x - vivo 15 medium supplement with 50 ng / ml macrophage colony - stimulate factor ( m - csf ; sigma - aldrich , st. louis , usa ) and culture on non-treated tissue - culture dish at 37 °c with 5 % co2 .
every second or third day the medium be change by centrifugation .
following withdrawal of m - csf on day 6 after excision , adherent cell be culture for an additional 24 - 48 h in x - vivo 15 medium .
macrophage phagocytosis assay
for preparation of monolayer culture of macrophage , fldms be plat on glass coverslips in 24 well plate ( 2 × 105 cell per well ) in x - vivo 15 medium .
for preparation of apoptotic target cell , primary thymocytes be harvest from the thymus of 4 - to 8 - week - old c57bl / 6j mouse , stain with tamra for 15 min , and apoptosis be induce either by treat cell with 5 μm staurosporine in medium for 4 h at 37 °c or by culture cell in medium overnight .
the efficacy of apoptosis induction be compare in thymic target cell and control by facs analysis .
on average , 60 % of the cell of the result population be apoptotic , with expose p on their surface , and less than 5 % of the cell be necrotic , a confirm by fitc - annexin v and propidium iodide staining .
the apoptotic thymocytes obtain be wash with pb and add to the prepare fldm culture ( ratio 10 : 1 ) .
phagocytosis be then allow to proceed at 37 °c and 5 % co2 .
after the indicate time period , the uptake of apoptotic cell by fldms be stop by intensive washing of co-cultures with cold pb to remove unphagocytosed cell .
to measure phagocytosis of apoptotic thymocytes , macrophage be far process for immunofluorescence analysis .
cell be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde , block in 0.5 % bsa / pb and stain with an anti-f4 / 80 antibody ( serotec ) follow by a secondary antibody couple to alexa 488 ( molecular probe inc. , eugene , usa ) .
coverslips be mount on slide and engulf thymocytes be enumerate by fluorescence microscopy .
the percentage of phagocytosis be calculate by count at least 300 macrophage and determine the number of macrophage that have engulf apoptotic thymocytes .
the phagocytotic index be calculate accord to the follow formula : phagocytotic index = ( total number of engulf cell / total number of count macrophage ) × ( number of macrophage contain engulf cell / total number of count macrophage ) × 100 .
the experiment be perform at least three time , each time in triplicate , and the counting be do by three different investigator .
measurement of macrophage cytokine production
monolayer culture of fldms and apoptotic thymocytes be prepare a describe above .
fldms be incubate with medium , lp ( 10 ng / ml ) , apoptotic cell ( ratio 1 : 10 ) or both for the determination of il - 10 , tgf - β1 or tnf - α level after co-culture for 22 h .
for tnf - α quantification at various time point , fldms be culture with a high concentration of lp ( 100 ng / ml ) .
culture supernatant be harvest and tnf - α ( mouse tnf - α opteia set ; bd bioscience , heidelberg , germany ) and tgf - β1 ( quantikine , tgf - β1 immunoassay ; r & d system ) be measure by elisa a describe by the supplier .
il - 10 in culture supernatant be determine by a cytometric bead assay ( mouse inflammation cba ; bd bioscience ) a indicate in the manual .
data be present a mean ± sem from at least three independent experiment , each carry out in triplicate .
analysis of the result use the wilcoxon - sign rank test ; p value below 0.05 be consider significant .
additional data file
additional data file 1 contain : figure s1 show the localization of apoptotic cell and macrophage in the subcutis of develop embryo ; and figure s2 show immunohistochemical staining of the ptdsr protein in macrophage derive from wild - type and ptdsr - knockout mouse .
supplementary material
additional data file 1
figure s1 show the localization of apoptotic cell and macrophage in the subcutis of develop embryo ; and figure s2 show immunohistochemical staining of the ptdsr protein in macrophage derive from wild - type and ptdsr - knockout mouse
click here for additional data file
acknowledgement
we thank rudi balling ( gbf research center ) and shoumo bhattacharya ( university of oxford ) for many helpful and stimulate discussion .
we thank evi wollscheid - lengeling ( gbf ) for help with harvest of neonatal mouse , ronald frank ( gbf ) for provide ptdsr peptide array , maria ebel ( gbf ) for e cell blastocyst injection , manfred rohde ( gbf ) for electron microscopy , kurt dittmar ( gbf ) for help with confocal microscopy and bastian pasche ( gbf ) for critical reading of the manuscript .
we thank baygenomics , a genomic consortium fund by the u national heart , lung , and blood institute , for provide the e cell gene - trap line rrj099 .
this work be support in part by the eu project eumorphia , " understand human molecular physiology and pathology through integrate functional genomics in the mouse model " ( qlg2 - ct - 2002 - 00930 ) .
figure and table
figure 1
target inactivation of the phosphatidylserine receptor gene .
( a ) ptdsr gene - targeting strategy .
homologous recombination in e cell result in the deletion of exon i and ii of the murine ptdsr gene through replacement of a loxp - flank neomycin phosphotransferase gene ( neo ) , thereby ablate the reading frame of the encode protein .
coding exon i - vi be show a fill box , and delete exon be color green .
restriction site be : a , aatii ; b , bamhi ; ei , ecori ; ev , ecorv ; k , kpni ; r , rsrii ; s , sacii ; sc , scai , x , xhoi .
the probe site be red box label : c , 5 ' outside probe ; d , 3 ' outside probe .
( b ) southern blot analysis of genomic dna extract from wild - type ( + / + ) and ptdsr + / - ( + / - ) animal , digest with bamhi and hybridize with the 5 ' outside probe to confirm germ - line transmission of the mutant ptdsr allele .
' wild - type ' indicate the bamhi fragment of 17.2 kb from the wild - type ptdsr allele ; ' mutant ' indicate the bamhi fragment of 11.6 kb from the target ptdsr allele .
( c ) pcr genotyping of embryo and animal from intercrosses of heterozygous ptdsr + / - use a wild - type and a mutant allele - specific primer combination , respectively .
( d ) northern blot analysis of total rna isolate from e13.5 wild - type , ptdsr + / - and ptdsr - / - embryo .
( e ) western blot analysis of protein from homogenate of e13.5 wild - type , ptdsr + / - and ptdsr - / - embryo use a ptdsr - specific antibody .
developmental abnormality at ( f , g ) e15.5 and ( h ) birth ; in this and all subsequent figure wild - type littermates be locate on the left and homozygous mutant mouse on the right .
the ptdsr - / - embryo show exencephaly ( f ) or prosencephalic hernia in the forebrain region ( arrowhead , neonate 2 ; h ) , uni - or bilateral absence of the eye ( f , g and neonate 2 in h , and arrow , neonate 3 in h ) , an abnormal head shape with proboscis ( g ) , edema ( arrowhead in f and g ) , and general anemia ( asterisk , neonate 3 in h ) .
figure 2
expression analysis of ptdsr during embryonic development .
( a ) schematic representation of the construction of the ptdsr gene - trap mouse line use for expression analysis at different embryonic stage .
gray and bright blue box represent regulatory element of the gene - trap , and β - geo , the β - galactosidase / neomycin phosphotransferase fusion protein - expression cassette [ 48 , 51 ] .
restriction enzyme nomenclature be a in figure 1
( b ) whole - mount β - galactosidase staining of heterozygous ptdsr gene - trap embryo at mid-gestation .
expression of ptdsr be high in neural tissue and somite , in the branchial arch , the develop limb , the heart , the primitive gut and the develop eye .
( c - e ) sectioning of e12.5 β - galactosidase - stain embryo confirm expression of ptdsr in ( c ) the neural tube ; ( inset in c ) neural epithelium ; ( d ) somite ; and ( e ) eye .
expression in the eye be restrict to develop neural retinal and lens cell .
( f ) expression analysis of adult tissue by northern blot .
expression of ptdsr in the muscle ( asterisk ) be detect only on long - term exposure of the filter ( > 48 h ) .
a β - actin hybridization be use to confirm equal loading of rna sample .
scale bar , 100 μm .
figure 3
histological analysis of wild - type and ptdsr - / - organ during embryogenesis .
( a - f ) wild - type embryo and ( g - l ) ptdsr - / - littermates be isolate at various embryonic stage , serially section sagittally and analyze for developmental abnormality in detail after h & e staining .
at e16.5 , the lung of ( g ) ptdsr - / - embryo have sacculation just start , and well - form alveolus ( asterisk ) or epithelium - line bronchiole ( arrow ) be scarce compare to ( a ) wild - type lung .
at e16.5 , the glomerulus ( arrow ) in the kidney of ( h ) ptdsr - / - embryo be underdeveloped compare to ( b ) wild - type , collect tubule ( arrowhead ) be missing and undifferentiated blastema ( asterisk ) be more abundant .
the jejunum have no intramural ganglion in ptdsr - / - embryo ( i ; and arrow in c ) ; and a well - develop submucosa ( asterisk in c ) be missing .
brain section at e18.5 show that ( j ) ptdsr - / - embryo may have herniation ( arrow ) of the hypothalamus through the ventral skull ( secondary palate ) , most likely through rathke 's pouch , and a severe malformation of the cortex ( asterisk ) compare to ( d ) wild - type embryo .
at e18.5 , ( e ) wild - type and ( k ) ptdsr - / - lung show normal sacculation and formation of alveolus ( asterisk ) and bronchiole ( arrow ) .
( f ) wild - type neonatal liver have significant number of megakaryocyte ( arrow ) , compare to ( l ) homozygous mutant littermates , and high number of erythropoietic island and of mature erythrocyte .
hepatocellular vacuole be due to glycogen store ( asterisk ) that be not metabolize in perinatally die ptdsr - / - animal , in contrast to wild - type newborn .
scale bar , 100 μm , except for ( d ) and ( j ) , 1 mm .
figure 4
morphology of wild - type and ptdsr - / - retina .
serial sagittal section of ( a - d ) wild - type and ( e - h ) ptdsr - / - retina be analyze for developmental abnormality at ( a , e ) e12.5 , ( b , f ) e16.5 , ( c , g ) e18.5 , and ( d , h ) p0 .
normal patterning of the retina be observe in ptdsr - / - embryo , with an out granular layer ( ogl ) , out plexiform layer ( opl ) , inner granular layer ( igl ) and inner plexiform layer ( ipl ) .
note that the igl in ptdsr - / - retina be less thick than that in wild - type littermates in compare ( c , g ) and ( d , h ) .
morphometric analysis ( number line ) of wild - type and ptdsr - / - retina confirm the initial finding of a thin retina in ptdsr - / - animal than in wild - type ( all value in μm ) .
scale bar , 50 μm .
figure 5
histological analysis of eye development in severely affect eyeless ptdsr - / - embryo .
( a ) in anophthalmic ptdsr - / - embryo , unilateral or bilateral absence of the eye could be detect .
( b - d ) serial h & e - stain sagittal section of homozygous mutant embryo at ( b ) e17.5 and ( c , d ) e18.5 show complex malformation of the optic cup and lack of any lens structure .
careful examination of adjacent section ( b - d ) reveal an ectopic misplacement of retinal - pigment epithelium in the maxillary sinus .
not only be the deposition of pigment clearly visible ( high magnification inset ) but also the induction of proliferation of underlie tissue and the change in morphology of the maxillary sinus ( d ) .
scale bar , 100 μm in ( b - d ) .
figure 6
analysis of program cell death and involvement of macrophage in the removal of apoptotic cell in wild - type and ptdsr - / - embryo .
( a ) whole - mount tunel staining ( blue ) of limb bud from wild - type and ptdsr - / - embryo at e13.5 show no difference in the amount or localization of apoptotic cell during the begin regression of the interdigital web .
serial sagittal section stain for activate caspase 3 ( acasp3 ; red ) in ( b - d ) wild - type and ( f - h ) ptdsr - / - embryo at e12.5 show apoptotic cell in the neural tube ( b , f ) , the mesonephros ( c , g ) and the develop paravertebral ganglion ( d , h ) .
tissue distribution and total number of apoptotic cell be indistinguishable between genotype and be confirm by the comparison of consecutive section of wild - type and ptdsr - / - embryo from different developmental stage .
analysis of macrophage number and location by f4 / 80 staining ( brown ) of consecutive section in paravertebral ganglion of ( e ) wild - type and ( i ) homozygous mutant embryo reveal that macrophage ( arrow ) be not locate close to apoptotic cell during embryonic development .
( for comparison , see also additional data file 1 , figure s1 , with the online version of this article ) .
scale bar , 100 μm .
figure 7
phagocytosis of apoptotic cell by fetal liver - derive macrophage ( fldms ) .
fldms from ( a , b ) wild - type and ( c , d ) ptdsr - / - embryo be culture for 60 min with tamra - stain ( red ) apoptotic thymocytes ( treat with staurosporine ) from c57bl / 6j mouse and then stain with f4 / 80 ( green ) .
macrophage of both genotype have phagocytosed apoptotic cell ( arrowhead ) .
( e ) quantification of phagocytosis of apoptotic cell by wild - type or ptdsr - / - macrophage reveal no difference in the percentage of macrophage that have engulf apoptotic cell , whether or not apoptosis have be induce by staurosporine .
microscopic analysis ( b , d ) and quantification of the number of apoptotic cell phagocytosed by single macrophage and ( f ) calculation of the average number of cell phagocytosed per macrophage fail to reveal difference in the efficacy of removal of apoptotic cell between wild - type and ptdsr - / - fldms .
figure 8
cytokine production by fldms upon stimulation with lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) and apoptotic cell .
fldms from wild - type and ptdsr - / - embryo be incubate ( a , b , d ) with medium ( 0 ) , lp ( 10 ng / ml ) , apoptotic cell ( ratio 1 : 10 ) or in combination with lp and apoptotic cell or ( c ) with lp ( 100 ng / ml ) alone .
culture supernatant be harvest after 22 h ( a , b , d ) or at the indicate time point ( c ) .
tnf - α and tgf - β1 be quantify by elisa and il - 10 by cytometric bead array ( cba ) assay .
data be present a mean ± sem from at least three independent experiment , each carry out in triplicate .
* , significant difference between genotype , p < 0.05 ; ** , significant difference between genotype , p < 0.01 ; wilcoxon - sign rank test .
table 1
penetrance of phenotype in ptdsr - / - mouse from e9.5 to e18.5 , a detect by gross morphology
subset of the major category of malformation be indicate by indentation .
brca2 and homologous recombination
abstract
two recent paper provide new evidence relevant to the role of the breast cancer susceptibility gene brca2 in dna repair .
moynahan et al provide genetic data indicate a requirement for brca2 in homology - dependent ( recombinational ) repair of dna double - strand break .
the second paper , by davy et al , begin to address the mechanism through which brca2 make it contribution to recombinational repair .
brca2 appear to function in recombination via interaction with the major eukaryotic recombinase rad51 [ 1 , 2 , 3 ] .
we briefly review the context in which the two study be carry out , we comment on the result present , and we discuss model design to account for the role of brca2 in rad51 – mediate repair .
keywords : breast cancer , homologous recombination
brca2
brca2 be the second breast cancer susceptibility gene to be discover , and be isolate through positional cloning use data from family with inherited breast cancer [ 4 ] .
cell with mutant brca2 protein be , like many cancer cell , genetically unstable and accumulate gross chromosomal rearrangement [ 5 , 6 ] .
the sequence of this large protein ( 3418 amino acid ) offer very little clue to it function , although there be eight repeated segment ( term brc repeat ) in the middle of the protein that be highly conserve among mammalian orthologs [ 7 , 8 ] .
breast cancer susceptibility gene and dna repair
follow the landmark discovery by scully et al that the homologous recombinase rad51 colocalizes at subnuclear site with brca1 [ 9 ] , a number of additional result have provide evidence that both brca1 and brca2 be involve in recombinational repair of dna damage .
brca1 and brca2 form discrete nuclear focus during the s phase and after exposure to dna damage agent [ 9 , 10 , 11 ] .
these focus be probably site of repair of spontaneous and induced dna damage [ 12 , 13 , 14 ] .
cell line defective in either brca1 or brca2 be sensitive to damage agent that form double - strand break ( dsbs ) , a be other cell line defective in recombinational repair ( review in [ 15 ] ) .
brca2 interact with the rad51 recombinase via direct protein - protein contact [ 16 , 17 , 18 , 19 ] .
biochemical analysis also show interaction between brca1 and rad51 , although these detect interaction may have be indirect [ 9 ] .
the brc repeat of brca2 be responsible for direct rad51 interaction .
cell lack brca1 / 2 fail to form damage - induce subnuclear rad51 focus with normal efficiency , suggest that these protein be require for the formation of recombinase complex at the site of dna damage [ 20 , 21 ] .
finally , genetic measurement of recombination frequency have show that brca1 - / - embryonic stem ( e ) cell be deficient in recombinational dsb repair [ 22 , 23 ] .
the similarity between phenotype associate with brca1 and brca2 deficiency , together with data show a similar effect of dna damage on distribution of brca1 and brca2 in repair - proficient cell , lead to the hypothesis that brca2 , like brca1 , be require for efficient recombinational repair .
the paper by moynahan et al [ 24 ] provide important support for this hypothesis .
measure dsb - induce recombination frequency in brca2 - defective cell
pierce et al have design a set of recombination substrate for measure the level of homologous recombination in vivo ( fig. 1 ) [ 25 ] .
the dna substrate contain a pair of mutate gfp gene ( gfp encode the easily detect green fluorescent protein ) , one of which contain a restriction site for i - scei , a yeast intron encode endonuclease with an 18 base pair recognition site .
transient transfection of an i - scei expression vector result in the production of a dsb in the first mutate copy of gfp .
one or both dna end form by the break invade ( s ) the homologous sequence in the second mutant gfp copy , result in repair of the dsb via a homology - mediate gene conversion event .
the configuration of the gfp construct be such that homology - mediate repair often result in the formation of a functional copy of gfp .
such event can be detect by fluorescence - activate cell sorting analysis by virtue of their expression of gfp .
moynahan et al [ 24 ] have use such a gfp recombination substrate to demonstrate that cell with defective brca2 protein be deficient in their ability to repair the i - scei - induce dsb through homologous recombination .
expression of i - scei result in 1 out of 1400 cell produce gfp via homologous recombination in the human pancreatic tumor cell line capan - 1 .
capan - 1 cell carry a deletion of brca2 on one homolog and code for a protein truncate at amino acid 1981 on the other homolog .
the author indicate that the level of i - scei - induce recombination in capan - 1 be over 100-fold less than that see use other ( brca2+ ) human tumor cell line .
the different line examine , however , be very likely to differ genetically from capan - 1 cell not only at the brca2 locus , but also at a very large number of additional locus .
this raise the possibility that some or even all of the recombinational repair defect see in capan - 1 could be due to mutation at non-brca2 locus .
while moynahan et al be careful to point out this problem , two set of result argue against the possibility that the recombinational repair deficiency of capan - 1 cell be completely independent of it defect in brca2 .
first , in the same study [ 24 ] , recombination in a mouse e cell line that express only truncate brca2 protein be measure .
this line be find to have low recombination efficiency than isogenic cell express full - length brca2 ( the defect observe be about fivefold to sixfold ) .
second , in an independent study , powell be able to compare derivative of capan - 1 that differ only in their ability to express full - length brca2 protein ( s. powell , personal communication , 2001 ) .
in these experiment , the derivative express full - length brca2 yield 10-fold more recombinant than control express only truncate brca2 ( s. powell , personal communication , 2001 ) .
while the experimental design of these experiment be somewhat different from that of moyna - han et al [ 24 ] , the result raise the possibility that capan - 1 cell have more than one mutation that lower the efficiency of recombinational repair relative to that observe in other human cell line .
conversely , the brca2 defect in capan - 1 could be fully responsible for the 100-fold defect in recombination if the level of brca2 complementation observe by powell be incomplete .
furthermore , the discrepancy between the 100-fold difference between capan - 1 and the other human line a compare with the fivefold to sixfold difference between the brca2lex1 / lex2 cell and brca2 + / + e cell might simply be account for by the fact that brca2lex1 / lex2 be not a null allele .
additional study be likely to shed light on the efficiency of brca2 - independent recombination pathway .
take together , the result indicate that brca2 be indeed require for high level of recombinational repair in both human and mouse .
the function of brca2 - rad51 interaction
the second paper provide evidence , by davy et al [ 26 ] , be a biochemical study of the interaction between the homologous recombinase rad51 and a peptide consist of one of the eight brc repeat from human brca2 .
expression of a single brc repeat ( brc4 ) have previously be report to act a an inhibitor of dna repair by chen et al [ 27 ] .
these investigator show that expression of construct contain the brc4 repeat in mcf - 7 cell enhance the radiosensitivity of cell and block both the g2 / m delay associate with damage and the ability of the transfected cell to assembly subnuclear rad51 focus .
in the paper by davy et al , data provide evidence for a plausible mechanism of the dominant negative effect associate with expression of a single brc repeat .
dna binding assay and electron microscopy method be use to show that a brc3 peptide interfere with the ability of rad51 to assemble into oligomeric filament on dna .
a brc4 peptide be also report to inhibit the rad51 – dna interaction .
these experiment raise the possibility that the full - length brca2 protein could act a a negative regulator of inappropriate rad51 – dna interaction .
the final experiment report by davy et al [ 26 ] be particularly important with respect to understand the mechanism ( s ) through which brca2 promote rad51 - dependent recombination .
the localization of rad51 be examine in capan - 1 cell , the same human tumor line examine by moynahan et al [ 24 ] .
it have be show previously that the small amount of truncate brca2 protein express by capan - 1 cell be mislocalized to the cytoplasm , consistent with the fact that the truncation protein lack a nuclear localization signal [ 28 ] .
davy et al show capan - 1 cell to be defective in nuclear localization of rad51 , raise the possibility that rad51 be normally carry to the nucleus by bind brca2 .
it be possible that rad51 may alternatively be capable of brca2 - independent transport , but mislocalization of brca2 to the cytoplasm may sequester rad51 and block it normal mode of transport .
support for the hypothesis that the observe mislocalization of rad51 be an indirect consequence of the brca2 defect require reintroduction of functional brca2 into capan - 1 .
give the elaborate nature of the rad51 – brca2 interaction , it seem somewhat unlikely that the only role of brca2 in promote recombination be to serve a a specific nuclear transporter of rad51 .
an attractive alternative , favor by davy et al [ 26 ] , be that the association of rad51 – brca2 be require to maintain rad51 in a form that be in a state of ' readiness ' ( fig. 2a ) .
in the absence of this interaction with brca2 , rad51 might exist in a form that be not capable of be recruit into a functional repair complex when damage occur .
for example , previous study indicate that rad51 show little binding preference for single - strand dna ( ssdna ) over double - strand dna ( dsdna ) [ 3 , 29 ] .
this result could mean that regulatory factor , such a brca2 , be require to suppress rad51 – dsdna interaction to prevent sequestration of rad51 in a nonfunctional form .
alternatively , or in addition , suppression of rad51 – ssdna interaction might be important for prevent rad51 from bind to the region of ssdna that form during normal dna replication .
brca2 may thus promote rad51 assembly into recombinational repair complex via a negative regulatory mechanism ( i.e. by block rad51–brca2 interaction until damage have occur and factor require for ' productive ' assembly of rad51 at damaged site be in place ) .
a mention previously , the ability of a brc peptide to repress the rad51 – brca2 interaction could reflect a role of full - length protein in suppress unwanted rad51 – brca2 interaction .
yet another potential role for brca2 in promote rad51 - dependent recombinational repair be a positive role in assembly of rad51 at damage site ( fig. 2b ) .
several protein that interact with rad51 be think to ' mediate ' assembly of rad51 at site of dna damage ( review in [ 30 ] ) .
rad51 paralogs in particular , include xrcc2 , xrcc3 , rad51b , rad51c and rad51d , may function a a complex that actively promote rad51 assembly [ 31 ] .
brca2 could cooperate with rad51 paralogs in promote rad51 assembly , or even provide an alternative assembly pathway .
the observation that brca2 localize to damage - induce subnuclear focus with rad51 seem consistent with the possibility that brca2 play a positive role in assembly of the recombination complex [ 11 ] .
finally , it be important to note that the two model for the function of the brca2 – rad51 interaction show in figure 2 be not mutually exclusive .
brca2 could prevent inappropriate rad51 assembly in the absence of damage and promote functional rad51 assembly at dna lesion during the damage response .
further experiment be clearly require to clarify the functional interaction between brca2 and rad51 during recombinational repair .
it should be relatively straightforward to determine whether the role of brca2 be limit to transport rad51 to the nucleus .
if this be the case , addition of a nuclear localization signal to rad51 should suppress the rad51 - mediate phenotype associate with a brca2 mutation .
however , biochemical experiment be need to determine whether full - length brca2 block or promote rad51 – brca2 interaction .
such experiment could also reveal additional role for brca2 in recombinational repair .
however , several technical obstacle , include the large size of brca2 , promise to make biochemical characterization of brca2 function difficult .
abbreviation
dsb = double - strand break ; dsdna = double - strand dna ; e = embryonic stem ; gfp = green fluorescent protein ; ssdna = single - strand dna .
figure and table
figure 1
recombination substrate use for assay homology - direct repair .
cut at the i - scei site within the mutant gfp ( scegfp ) result in a double - strand break that can be repair through homologous gene conversion use a 3 ' - truncated copy of gfp a sequence donor .
the mechanism result in the formation of a functional copy of the gfp gene .
the model show assume gene conversion occur via the synthesis - dependent annealing mechanism .
figure 2
potential role of brca2 in promote assembly of rad51 at site of dna damage .
chromosomal dna be show a pair of straight line , rad51 a open circle , and brca2 a grey bar .
( a ) prevention of nonproductive dna interaction .
brca2 – rad51 interaction be propose to suppress rad51 – brca2 interaction until dna damage be present .
when damage occur , rad51 be recruit to damage site where is polymerize into nucleoprotein filament .
in this model , brca2 be not require for assembly of functional complex at damaged site , only to prevent a substantial fraction of rad51 from be sequester in a nonfunctional form .
in a brca2 - defective cell , mutant rad51 become associated with dna at random site and be therefore not readily recruit to site of damage .
( b ) positive regulation .
brca2 be propose to be require for rad51 to assemble into functional recombinational repair complex at site of damage .
in brca - defective cell , rad51 fail to associate with site of damage due to lack of an assembly factor .
sirt1 modulate the estrogen – insulin - like growth factor - 1 signaling for postnatal development of mammary gland in mouse
abstract
introduction
estrogen and insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( igf - 1 ) play important role in mammary gland development and breast cancer .
sirt1 be a highly conserve protein deacetylase that can regulate the insulin / igf - 1 signaling in low organism , as well a a grow number of transcription factor , include nf - κb , in mammalian cell .
whether sirt1 regulate the igf - 1 signaling for mammary gland development and function , however , be not clear .
in the present study , this role of sirt1 be examine by study sirt1 - deficient mouse .
method
sirt1 - deficient ( sirt1ko / ko ) mouse be generate by cross a new strain of mouse harbor a conditional target mutation in the sirt1 gene ( sirt1co / co ) with cmv - cre transgenic mouse .
whole mount and histology analysis , immunofluorescence staining , immunohistochemistry , and western blotting be use to characterize mammary gland development in virgin and pregnant mouse .
the effect of exogenous estrogen be also examine by subcutaneous implantation of a slow - release pellet in the subscapular region .
result
both male and female sirt1ko / ko mouse can be fertile despite the growth retardation phenotype .
virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse display impede ductal morphogenesis , whereas pregnant sirt1ko / ko mouse manifest lactation failure due to an underdeveloped lobuloalveolar network .
estrogen implantation be sufficient to rescue ductal morphogenesis .
exogenous estrogen reverse the increase basal level of igf - 1 binding protein - 1 expression in sirt1ko / ko mammary tissue , but not that of iκbα expression , suggest that increase level of estrogen enhance the production of local igf - 1 and rescue ductal morphogenesis .
additionally , tnfα treatment enhance the level of the newly synthesize iκbα in sirt1ko / ko cell .
sirt1 deficiency therefore affect the cellular response to multiple extrinsic signal .
conclusion
sirt1 modulate the igf - 1 signaling critical for both growth regulation and mammary gland development in mouse .
sirt1 deficiency deregulate the expression of igf - 1 bind protein - 1 and attenuate the effect of igf - 1 signal , include estrogen - stimulate local igf - 1 signaling for the onset of ductal morphogenesis .
these finding suggest that the enzymatic activity of sirt1 may influence both normal growth and malignant growth of mammary epithelial cell .
introduction
mammalian sirt1 belong to a family of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide - dependent histone deacetylases [ 1 , 2 ] .
sirt1 be most closely related to yeast sir2 , the founding member of the evolutionarily conserve sir2 family .
yeast sir2 be required for silence transcription at the telomeric region and mating type locus , and for suppression of ribosomal dna recombination [ 3 , 4 ] .
the expression of an extra copy of sir2 in either yeast mother cell or multicell organism such a nematode can significantly extend the lifespan [ 5 , 6 ] .
inactivation of sir2 enhance stress resistance and extend chronological lifespan of nondividing yeast cell , which be opposite to the requirement for sir2 function in the reproductive lifespan [ 7 ] .
whether sirt1 regulate the reproductive lifespan and / or the chronological lifespan in mammal remain unknown .
sir2 be an integral part of an evolutionarily conserve insulin / insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( igf - 1 ) signaling ( ii ) system in worm ( caenorhabditis elegans ) , fruit fly ( drosophila ) , mouse , and human [ 8 , 9 ] .
the ii system include membrane - bind receptor , cytoplasmic kinase , and nuclear transcription factor .
to maintain the proper expression of the effector gene for the ii system , these conserve component form a sophisticated regulatory system , which center on a family of forkhead transcription factor ( forkhead box ' other ' protein ( foxos ) ) , and operate on two level .
on one level , sirt1 - mediate protein deacetylation attenuate the transcriptional activity of nuclear foxo transcription factor [ 10 - 12 ] .
on the second level , the foxo transcription factor can be sequester within the cytoplasm when phosphorylated by activate akt kinase in response to insulin and igf - 1 signal [ 13 ] .
conceivably , the ii system sense the level of insulin and igf - 1 and negatively regulate the expression of the effector gene .
the ii system be responsible for food storage , stress tolerance , and longevity in low organism , such a c. elegans [ 8 , 9 , 14 ] .
in more advanced specie , steroid hormone evolve to regulate the ii system [ 15 ] .
in mouse and human , the igf - 1 signaling of the ii system mediate local effect for growth and hormonal regulation for multiple tissue , include mammary gland [ 16 , 17 ] .
mammalian sirt1 have evolve to modify the activity of a grow number of transcription factor , include p53 , nf - κb , and pgc - 1α , suggest that sirt1 function in a wide range of cellular response to stress , inflammation , and nutrient [ 18 - 21 ] .
sirt1 - deficient mouse display characteristic phenotype of perinatal death and growth retardation as well a other diverse phenotype , such a eye defect , with vary severity [ 22 , 23 ] .
the underlie causal mechanism for these phenotype , however , remain unknown .
we recently generate sirt1 - deficient ( sirt1ko / ko ) mouse and find that both male and female sirt1ko / ko mouse can be fertile , which be in contrast to the sterile phenotype observe in one strain of sirt1 - deficient mouse [ 22 ] .
this lead to our study of the link between sirt1 and igf - 1 signaling use the mammary gland a a model organ .
the mammary gland be a unique organ because it develop after birth and undergo dynamic change throughout the reproductive lifespan of a female .
at the onset of puberty , ovarian estrogen stimulate ductal morphogenesis during which mammary epithelial progenitor cell differentiate and proliferate while interact with adipocytes and stromal cell within mammary fat pad [ 17 , 24 , 25 ] .
ovarian estrogen , in synergy with pituitary growth hormone ( gh ) , stimulate stromal cell to produce local igf - 1 .
the local igf - 1 , but not liver - produce systemic igf - 1 , provide a paracrine signal for commence ductal morphogenesis [ 26 ] .
mouse lack gh , estrogen , igf - 1 , gh receptor , or estrogen receptor alpha ( erα ) fail to undergo postnatal ductal morphogenesis [ 17 , 24 - 31 ] , indicate that both steroid hormone and igf - 1 be on the common pathway for a critical developmental checkpoint .
once the arborated ductal network be establish , cycle of differentiation , proliferation , and death of secretory alveolar epithelium repeat with each pregnancy [ 17 , 24 , 25 ] .
in the present article we report the finding and characterization of impede ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse and lactation failure in sirt1ko / ko mother .
the characterization of these phenotype have identify a sirt1 - dependent regulatory mechanism by which sirt1 modulate the effectiveness of the estrogen – igf - 1 signaling for mammary gland development .
the estrogen – igf - 1 signaling be define a the ovarian estrogen - regulate , stromal cell - produce local igf - 1 signal for stimulate mammary epithelial cell .
material and method
mouse
a previously describe sirt1 targeting construct , koii [ 23 ] , be use to generate mouse harbor a conditional target mutation in the sirt1 gene ( sirt1co / co mouse ) ( see additional file 1 ) .
the breeding of sirt1co / co mouse and cmv - cre transgenic mouse result in mouse harbor a germline - transmit deletion of exon 4 of the sirt1 gene ( sirt1 + / ko mouse ) .
both sirt1co / co mouse and sirt1 + / co mouse be use to establish breeding colony for generate sirt1co / co and sirt1ko / ko mouse , respectively .
both sirt1co / co mouse and sirt1ko / ko mouse be in a mix 129svj / c57b6 background .
mouse be house in a special - pathogen - free facility and all procedure be approve by the university of washington animal care and use committee .
a pcr - base genotyping method be establish to identify the wild - type , co , and ko locus of the sirt1 gene use three primer : 5 ' co primer , 5 ' - ggttgacttaggtcttgtctg ; 5 ' ko primer , 5 ' - aggcggatttctgagttcga ; 3 ' primer , 5 ' - cgtcccttgtaatgtttccc .
murine embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) be isolate from the embryo between embryonic day 12.5 and embryonic day 14.5 .
the body weight be measure once a week .
serum insulin - like growth factor - 1
a commercial radioimmunoassay ( alpco inc. , windham , nh , usa ) be use .
sample ( 300 μl ) be prepare via an alcohol extraction follow by a 2 - day disequilibrium incubation at 4 °c .
sample be measure in duplicate and data be calculate a the sample be count .
six standard range from 10 to 500 ng / ml be use to generate the standard curve .
the low limit of detection be 10 ng .
survival assay
to determine the sensitivity of embryonic stem cell after ionize radiation or hydrogen peroxide treatment , 300 embryonic stem cell be seed onto a 10 - cm plate for 24 hour .
the plate be either expose to a 137cs source at indicate dos or be treat with embryonic stem medium contain hydrogen peroxide at indicate concentration for 30 minute .
seven day after irradiation or hydrogen peroxide treatment , the embryonic stem colony stain with crystal violet be count .
estrogen implantation
estrogen pellet in the form of 17β - estradiol , at 0.1 mg , and the 21 - day releasing time be obtain from innovative research ( sarasota , fl , usa ) .
one pellet be subcutaneously implant in the subscapular region of individual female mouse use a sterilizedmetal trochar ( innovative research ) .
whole mount analysis
the inguinoabdominal mammary fat pad be spread on microscope slide , fix in carnoy 's fixative overnight , hydrate and stain with carmine alum stain ( sigma , st. louis , mo , usa ) overnight , and be then dehydrate , treat with xylene to remove fat , and mount with secure mount ( fisher scientific , pittsburgh , pa , usa ) and cover slip .
histological , immunohistochemical , and immunofluorescence analysis
the mouse be give a single dose of bromodeoxyurdine ( brdu ) at 100 g / kg body weight via intraperitoneal injection 2 hour before euthanasia .
the mammary fat pad , as well a other tissue , be collect and fix in 10 % formalin solution ( fisher scientific ) .
paraffin - embed section be prepare at 4 μm thickness follow by standard h & e staining for histological analysis and by immunohistochemical staining for brdu - label cell ( sigma ) and apoptotic cell ( promega , madison , wi , usa ) .
to detect the presence of mouse milk protein , a rabbit anti-mouse milk specific protein antibody ( nordic immunology , tillburg , the netherlands ) be use for immunofluorescent staining , follow by texas red anti-rabbit secondary antibody ( molecular probe ) and dapi staining for nucleus ( molecular probe , eugene , or , usa ) .
microscopic analysis of all histological finding be carry out on an axiovert 200m microscope with axiovision 4.5 software ( carl zeiss , münchen - hallbergmoos , germany ) .
protein analysis
protein extract be prepare from mammary tissue as well a from mefs .
the follow primary antibody be use : anti-sirt1 ( upstate biotechology , lake placid , ny , usa ) , anti-igf - 1 binding protein - 1 ( igfbp - 1 ) ( r & d system , minneapolis , mn , usa ) , and anti-actin and anti-iκbα ( santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , ca , usa ) .
the correspond secondary antibody be horseradish peroxidase - conjugate anti-rabbit ( pierce , rockford , il , usa ) , anti-rat , and anti-goat ( santa cruz biotechnology ) .
result
growth retardation in sirt1ko / ko mouse
the conditional target sirt1 mutant mouse ( sirt1co / co mouse ) carry an insertion mutation of the neomycin - resistant gene and lox sequence in the sirt1 gene flank exon 4 that encode a conserve sir2 motif ( figure 1a ) .
the mutation do not affect the expression of sirt1 in sirt1co / co mouse ( figure 1b ) .
a expect , sirt1co / co mouse be phenotypically indistinguishable from wild - type mouse .
to convert the sirt1 co allele into the sirt1 ko allele , sirt1co / co mouse be cross with cmv - cre transgenic mouse to generate sirt1 heterozygote carry the sirt1 + / ko , cmv - cre + genotype .
the expression of the cmv - cre transgene catalyze the deletion of exon 4 in most lineage of cell , include germ cell ( figure 1a ) .
this sirt1 ko allele should be identical to the previously describe δex4 mutation [ 23 ] .
sirt1 + / ko , cre + mouse be backcross with wild - type mouse to generate the mouse harbor a germline - transmit deletion mutation ( that is , sirt1 + / ko mouse ) .
the breeding of sirt1 + / ko male mouse and sirt1 + / ko female mouse result in sirt1ko / ko mouse .
the cell derive from either sirt1 + / ko mouse or sirt1ko / ko mouse express a sirt1 mutant protein due to the inframe deletion of exon 4 ( figure 1b ) .
this sirt1 mutant protein may not be functional , however , since sirt1 + / ko mouse be phenotypically indistinguishable from wild - type mouse and sirt1δex4 / δex4 mouse be phenotypically identical to sirt1 null mouse [ 23 ] .
similar to other strain of sirt1 - deficient mouse , nearly two - third of sirt1ko / ko newborn die shortly after birth and the majority of survive sirt1ko / ko mouse manifest growth retardation ( table 1 and figure 1c ) [ 22 , 23 ] .
growth retardation may result from a systemic defect in hormonal regulation , dna double - strand break repair , or other causal mechanism .
we find that sirt1ko / ko mouse have reduce level of serum igf - 1 ( figure 1d ) .
igf - 1 often act a a local effector for pituitary gh .
the serum level of gh in sirt1ko / ko mouse , however , appear to be within the normal range ( data not show ) .
on the other hand , yeast sir2 and it associate sir complex , as well a mouse sirt6 , have also be implicate in dna double - strand break repair and the maintenance of chromosome stability [ 32 - 34 ] .
we find that sirt1ko / ko embryonic stem cell do not have increase sensitivity to either ionize radiation or hydrogen peroxide treatment when compare with wild - type cell , or with positive control cell such a ku70 - deficient or atm - deficient cell ( figure 1e , f ) .
both ku70 - deficient mouse and atm - deficient mouse display growth retardation phenotype [ 35 , 36 ] .
the growth retardation phenotype in sirt1ko / ko mouse be therefore probably not due to a defect in dna damage repair , but rather result from a deficit in igf - 1 signaling .
lactation failure
both male and female sirt1ko / ko mouse can be fertile , which be in contrast with the report sterile phenotype in one strain of sirt1 - deficient mouse [ 22 ] .
when male sirt1ko / ko mouse impregnate female sirt1 + / ko mouse , the number of survive sirt1ko / ko offspring be reduce due to the partial perinatal lethal phenotype ( table 1 ) .
in a reciprocal approach , male sirt1 + / ko mouse can also impregnate female sirt1ko / ko mouse ( table 1 ) .
after parturition , sirt1ko / ko mother exhibit normal nursing behavior .
the pup do not survive for more than 3 day after birth , however , unless they be immediately remove and put under the care of a foster mother .
all pup die of dehydration or starvation a a result of lack of milk in their stomach .
to determine whether the sirt1ko / ko mother encounter a lactation defect , whole mount and histological analysis be use to characterize the morphological change in the mammary gland .
we find that virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse display impede ductal morphogenesis up to 9 month of age , while age - match virgin wild - type mouse display extensive ductal elongation and branching ( figure 2a ) .
the absence of ductal morphogenesis persist in pregnant sirt1ko / ko mouse up to day 13 of pregnancy ( figure 2b ) .
despite the fact that pregnancy can induce ductal morphogenesis at the late stage of pregnancy , underdevelop mammary gland in sirt1ko / ko female mouse cause a severe deficit in milk production , a show by histological analysis as well a the immunofluorescence analysis use an anti-milk antibody ( figure 2b , c ) .
pregnancy - induce mammary gland development
to characterize the developmental defect lead to lactation failure , we analyze the mammary gland of sirt1ko / ko female mouse on lactation day 1 .
terminal end bud ( tebs ) be club - shape transitional structure ( see figure 3a , upper panel ) .
in wild - type female mouse , tebs form and precede ductal elongation and branching at the onset of puberty [ 17 , 24 , 25 ] .
when tebs / duct reach the edge of mammary fat pad , tebs regress a show in the virgin mouse in figure 3a ( upper panel ) .
interestingly , the transitional tebs can be readily identify in sirt1ko / ko female mouse on lactation day 1 , manifest a either newly form tebs or a tebs attach to develop ductal and alveolar structure ( figure 3a , low panel ) .
moreover , sirt1ko / ko mouse display vary degree of ductal development , range from a lack of any ductal structure to a fully develop ductal network , the latter of which be comparable with the morphology and cellularity of wild - type mammary tissue on day 13 of pregnancy ( figure 3a ) .
these observation indicate that pregnancy could rescue impede ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse .
normal alveolar morphogenesis take place under the control of additional hormone and growth factor during pregnancy and lactation [ 17 , 24 , 25 ] .
these coordinate effort be necessary to support a densely saturate lobuloalveolar system for secrete milk after parturition ( see wild - type mouse on lactation day 1 in figure 2b and 3a ) .
in some sirt1ko / ko mouse , the alveolar morphogenesis be initiate , a indicate by the presence of a few secretory alveolar epithelial cell within scatter alveolar structure sprout from a well - establish ductal branching network ( figure 2c and 3a , low panel ) .
the extent of alveolar morphogenesis in sirt1ko / ko mouse be inadequate , however , a show by the severe deficit in milk production when compare with that in wild - type mouse ( figure 2c ) .
exogenous estrogen - induce ductal morphogenesis
to test whether the increase level of estrogen in pregnant mouse be sufficient to induce ductal morphogenesis in sirt1ko / ko mouse , a single estrogen pellet be implant in the subscapular region of each virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse and the mammary tissue be analyze 14 and 21 day after the implantation .
by day 14 , wild - type mouse display ductal side branching reminiscent of the morphological change during early pregnancy ( figure 4a , left panel ) .
in contrast , sirt1ko / ko mouse show tebs and ductal elongation , which be the characteristic feature of ductal morphogenesis in pubertal wild - type mouse .
by day 21 , ductal elongation and side branching be restore in sirt1ko / ko mouse and the extent of ductal morphogenesis be indistinguishable between wild - type and sirt1ko / ko female mouse ( figure 4a , right panel ) .
these observation clearly indicate that exogenous estrogen alone be sufficient to rescue ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse .
furthermore , the presence of transitional tebs on day 14 and of ductal side branching on day 21 suggest that the characteristic feature of mammary gland development at puberty and during early pregnancy could be couple in response to increase level of estrogen .
increase level of estrogen , either during pregnancy or through implantation , be therefore sufficient to stimulate the differentiation of epithelial progenitor cell and ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse .
concurrent mammary epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation
the finding of pregnancy - induce mammary gland development prompt u to investigate how mammary epithelial progenitor cell in pregnant sirt1ko / ko mouse can differentiate so rapidly .
both brdu labeling and the tunel ( terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediate dutp nick end labeling ) assay be use to measure the cell proliferation and apoptosis in the mammary tissue , respectively .
we find in sirt1ko / ko mammary tissue that about one - third of the cell in tebs be brdu - positive a compare with the number of brdu - positive cell in the newly differentiate ductal or alveolar epithelial cell ( figure 5a ( upper panel ) , 5b ) .
this brdu - positive finding differ from that in wild - type mammary tissue , in which less than 3 % of ductal epithelial cell and about 25 % of alveolar epithelial cell be brdu - positive .
the newly generate ductal epithelial cell in sirt1ko / ko mouse form elongate duct and side branch , while push tebs towards the edge of mammary fat pad ( figure 3a , low panel ) .
the newly generate ductal epithelial cell can consequently far differentiate into a few observe alveolar cell in which milk protein be detect ( figure 2c ) .
these observation suggest that the proliferation and differentiation of epithelial progenitor cell , which be program to take place at different time of a female 's reproductive life , could be concurrent at a late stage of pregnancy in sirt1ko / ko mouse .
apoptosis be a part of the self - renewal and remodeling process in normal mammary tissue [ 17 , 24 , 25 ] .
apoptotic epithelial cell can be readily identify in both ductal and alveolar epithelium of sirt1ko / ko mouse on lactation day 1 ( figure 5a , low panel ) .
the level of apoptotic cell be significantly high than those in wild - type mouse on lactation day 1 , but seem to be close to that in wild - type mouse in mid-pregnancy ( e.g. day 13 of pregnancy ) ( figure 5c ) .
the rush of proliferation and differentiation during pregnancy - rescue ductal development in sirt1ko / ko mouse manifest multiple feature on lactation day 1 that could reassemble some characteristic feature of wild - type mouse in mid-pregnancy .
successive pregnancy , however , fail to improve the survival rate of either sirt1 + / ko pup or sirt1ko / ko pup ( three or four pregnancy in 3 month for each of three sirt1ko / ko female test ) , indicate that the lactation defect persist .
a sirt1 deficiency therefore affect ductal morphogenesis in virgin mouse , and lobuloalveolar proliferation in parous mouse .
deregulate negative feedback signal
the characterization of lactation failure have reveal two developmental defect in sirt1ko / ko female mouse .
the impede ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse bore some resemblance to the defective ductal morphogenesis see in mouse lack gh , estrogen , or igf - 1 , as well a in mouse harbor mutation in the corresponding receptor , such a the gh receptor and erα [ 17 , 24 - 31 ] .
these previous study have establish the notion that gh and estrogen synergistically stimulate ductal morphogenesis , which be mediate by stromal cell - produce local igf - 1 in mammary tissue .
impede ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse be therefore probably due to a deficit in igf - 1 signaling .
in addition to this early defect , pregnancy - induce mammary gland development in sirt1ko / ko mouse appear to be arrest at the beginning of lobuloalveolar development , which be reminiscent of the phenotype in mouse lack iκb kinase alpha ( ikkα ) activity for nf - κb activation [ 37 ] .
ikkα - deficient mouse exhibit normal ductal morphogenesis at the onset of puberty and exhibit normal ductal side branching during early pregnancy .
owe to the absence of nf - κb - dependent cyclin d1 expression , however , ikkα - deficient mouse display defective alveolar epithelial cell proliferation and fail to lactate [ 37 ] .
while sirt1 negatively regulate the transcription activity of foxos and nf - κb in mammalian cell [ 10 , 11 , 20 ] , sirt1ko / ko mouse display the loss - of - function phenotype .
we hypothesize that sirt1 deficiency deregulate the expression of negative feedback signal and thereby desensitize the cell to various type of stimulation .
indeed , among the many foxos and nf - κb - regulate gene , igfbp - 1 and iκbα encode negative feedback signal for igf - 1 signaling and nf - κb activation , respectively .
we find that the basal level of both igfbp - 1 and iκbα be increase in adipose tissue from virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse and in ductal epithelial cell from sirt1ko / ko mouse on lactation day 1 ( figure 3b ) .
meanwhile , the expression pattern of igfbp - 1 and iκbα in wild - type mammary tissue , show in figure 3b , be in agreement with the finding of others [ 16 , 38 , 39 ] .
namely , the expression of igfbp - 1 be downregulated during pregnancy , whereas nf - κb activity be increase at a late stage of pregnancy .
the loss of sirt1 therefore increase the basal level of both igfbp - 1 and iκbα in multilineages of cell , and potentially increase threshold for activate sirt1 - modulate signaling pathway .
sirt1 deficiency do not affect the ability of mammary epithelial progenitor cell to differentiate into functional alveolar epithelial cell despite the lactation failure ( figure 2c ) .
sirt1 deficiency may therefore alter the homeostasis of the signal for ductal morphogenesis and / or the cellular response to the signal .
increase expression of both igfbp - 1 and iκbα in adipose tissue and mammary epithelial cell could simply reflect a global deregulation of gene expression in sirt1ko / ko cell in which the activity of both foxos and nf - κb be increase .
igfbp - 1 be a potent inhibitor of igf - 1 in vivo [ 40 ] , suggest that the elevate basal level of igfbp - 1 in adipose tissue in sirt1ko / ko mouse could reduce the effect of igf - 1 .
moreover , deregulate igfbp - 1 expression , but not deregulate iκbα expression , be reverse in response to increase level of estrogen in the mammary fat pad after implantation ( figure 4b ) .
the finding be relevant to the fact that the expression of igfbp - 1 be downregulated a the level of estrogen increase in pregnant wild - type mouse ( figure 3b ) .
increase level of estrogen therefore stimulate the production of stromal cell - derive local igf - 1 , which overcome the igfbp - 1 barrier in sirt1ko / ko mouse and , ultimately , reverse the increase level of igfbp - 1 in mammary tissue .
it be note that increase level of estrogen and local igf - 1 do not interfere with the expression of iκbα ( figure 4b ) .
to determine whether deregulate iκbα expression in sirt1ko / ko cell can be reverse , we treat mefs with tnfα and measure the kinetics of iκbα expression .
three independent line of sirt1ko / ko mefs be use , which display vary basal level of increase iκbα expression .
follow iκbα degradation induce by tnfα , the level of newly synthesize iκbα in all three sirt1ko / ko mefs be always high than that of wild - type mefs ( figure 6 ) .
this in vitro finding imply that sirt1 deficiency affect nf - κb signaling when the iκb kinase activation be normal .
our current system might not be suitable for study the effect of sirt1 deficiency on nf - κb activation in vivo .
nf - κb signaling exhibit distinct biological response because the expression of iκbα depend on nf - κb activation while the other isoforms of iκb ( β and ε ) be independent of nf - κb feedback [ 41 ] .
for example , tnfα stimulation induce dampen oscillatory behavior after the first hour , whereas lipopolysacharide treatment lead to stable nf - κb activation [ 42 , 43 ] .
the nf - κb signaling in the develop mammary gland be under the temporal control of rank signaling and ikkα activation [ 37 ] .
the finding of increase level of newly synthesize iκbα within the first hour indicate that sirt1 deficiency could disrupt the temporal control of nf - κb signaling to all type of stimulation ( figure 6 ) .
it remain unknown , however , whether the reduce igf - 1 signaling would affect the efficacy of rank signaling and ikkα activation in develop mammary gland .
the fact that individual sirt1ko / ko mouse manifest vary degree of ductal morphogenesis ( figure 3a ) make it difficult to dissect the potential compound effect of sirt1 deficiency on both upstream ikkα activation and downstream nf - κb signaling .
other experimental system , such a mammary epithelial cell - specific sirt1ko / ko female mouse , may be use to address this issue .
discussion
our study of sirt1ko / ko mouse have unveil a regulatory mechanism by which sirt1 modulate the efficacy of estrogen - stimulate local igf - 1 signaling for ductal morphogenesis .
sirt1 deficiency alter the homeostasis of gene expression and attenuate the efficacy of igf - 1 signaling .
a a result , sirt1ko / ko mouse manifest partial perinatal lethality and lactation failure phenotype , implicate the role of evolutionarily conserve sirt1 in both postnatal survival and offspring survival of mammal .
sirt1 balance the homeostasis of igf - 1 and igfbp - 1 in vivo
sirt1 be an integral part of the ii system that check and balance the efficacy of insulin and igf - 1 signal .
the igf - 1 signaling of the ii system be require for survival after birth .
a illustrate in figure 7a , the function of sirt1 parallel the linear igf - 1 / igf - 1 receptor / phosphoinositide - 3 ' - oh kinase / akt signaling pathway , both of which can negatively regulate the transcription activity of foxos .
mouse harbor target mutation in either igf - 1 or the igf - 1 receptor gene exhibit perinatal lethality and growth retardation [ 44 , 45 ] .
in the igf - 1 receptor - express cell , the binding of insulin and / or igf - 1 activate the phosphoinositide - 3 ' - oh kinase and akt kinase cascade for survival [ 8 , 9 , 13 ] .
the phosphoinositide - 3 ' - oh kinase / akt signaling pathway be also highly conserved from worm to mammal , and function to modulate energy metabolism and lifespan in low organism .
the mammalian akt kinase family have three member , akt1 – akt3 , which provide specificity and versatility .
mouse lack both the akt1 and akt2 gene display perinatal lethal and growth retardation phenotype that be strikingly similar to that of either igf - 1 or igf - 1 receptor - deficient mouse [ 46 ] .
in this regard , sirt1ko / ko mouse , as well a other strain of sirt1 - deficienct mouse , also exhibit perinatal lethal and growth retardation phenotype ( figure 1c and table 1 ) [ 22 , 23 ] .
the consistent observation of perinatal lethal and growth retardation phenotype from our study and study with mouse lack igf - 1 , the igf - 1 receptor , or akt1 / akt2 suggest that upregulated foxo activity unleash the expression of downstream effector gene that lead to the birth - relate stress .
this birth - relate stress may be relate to the switch from a maternal level of igf - 1 to a neonatal level of igf - 1 because the survive sirt1ko / ko mouse can live into adulthood and can reproduce despite the growth retardation phenotype ( figure 1c ) .
in this context , at least one of the foxo - deficient mouse strain , foxo3 ( foxo3a / fkhrl1 ) - deficient mouse , grow normally and develop functional mammary gland [ 47 ] .
igfbp - 1 be one of six igf - 1 binding protein , but be the only one that can be negatively regulate by insulin [ 48 ] .
igf - 1 binding protein inhibit the action of local igf - 1 in a spatial and temporal manner [ 40 , 49 ] .
in mammalian cell , foxo3 can directly bind to the promoter of the igfbp - 1 gene and activate the transcription [ 50 - 52 ] .
sirt1 act to negatively regulate the activity of nuclear foxo3 and to decrease the expression of igfbp - 1 when the igf - 1 signal be low ( figure 7a ) .
increase level of igfbp - 1 can diminish the action of igf - 1 signal in vivo .
in that way , sirt1 balance the homeostasis of igf - 1 and igfbp - 1 for vary level of igf - 1 signal .
the homeostasis of igf - 1 and igfbp - 1 clearly affect fertility , a show by the infertility phenotype in both igf - 1 - deficient mouse and igfbp - 1 transgenic mouse [ 28 , 40 , 49 ] .
the serum level of estrogen in igf - 1 - deficient female mouse appear significantly reduced , whereas in erα - deficient mouse , which be also infertile , there be a threefold increase [ 53 ] .
in contrast , sirt1ko / ko mouse can be fertile despite the fact that the fertility be reduced a compare with that of wild - type female ( table 1 ) .
although our preliminary assessment indicate that the serum level of estrogen in sirt1ko / ko female mouse be not overtly alter , it remain possible that a subtle irregularity or an individual variation of the estrogen level or erα expression might be attribute to the reduce fertility .
an alternative explanation for reduce fertility be that sirt1 deficiency deregulate the activity of foxo3 and manifest an opposite effect of foxo3 deficiency .
foxo3 - deficient mouse exhibit early depletion of ovarian follicle , which be reminiscent of premature ovarian failure in woman [ 47 , 54 ] .
premature ovarian failure manifest a early cessation of ovarian function and a premature menopause cause by genetic mutation , chemo / radiation therapy , or other unknown factor .
it be possible that sirt1 deficiency counterbalance normal release of ovarian follicle and reduce the fertility in mouse .
sirt1 modulate the efficacy of the igf - 1 signal for ductal morphogenesis
we hypothesize that , in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse , increase level of igfbp - 1 in adipose tissue effectively diminish igf - 1 signal , include the estrogen – igf - 1 signaling , and halt the differentiation of mammary epithelial progenitor cell ( figure 7b ) .
several result of this study provide support for this hypothesis .
first , the expression of igfbp - 1 be increase in mammary fat pad from virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse , in which there be no evidence of any duct ( figure 2a and 3a ) .
second , both pregnancy and estrogen implantation can rescue impede ductal morphogenesis in sirt1ko / ko mouse ( figure 3a and 4a ) , demonstrate that increase level of estrogen can enhance the production of local igf - 1 .
moreover , the vary degree of rescue among individual mouse , as well a individual mammary fat pad of the same mouse , also indicate that local igf - 1 must be halt in sirt1ko / ko mouse ( figure 3a , and data not show ) .
finally , increase level of estrogen specifically activate the igf - 1 signaling in mammary tissue , a show by the reversal of igfbp - 1 expression in sirt1ko / ko mouse after estrogen implantation ( figure 4b ) .
these result indicate that a gradient of igf - 1 signal , include both circulate and local igf - 1 , may regulate mammary gland development at embryonic , postnatal , and reproductive stage , and that increase expression of igfbp - 1 decrease the efficacy of igf - 1 signal .
mammary development may undergo estrogen / igf - 1 - independent phase and estrogen / igf - 1 - dependent phase , which encompass a late stage of embryonic development to the onset of puberty and involve maternal igf - 1 , circulate igf - 1 , and estrogen - stimulate local igf - 1 .
by embryonic day 16.5 , mammary mesenchyme be connect to primitive fat pad and begin to proliferate , which result in rudimentary duct [ 17 , 25 , 55 , 56 ] .
we propose that this process mark the transition from estrogen / igf - 1 - independent mammary stem cell to igf - 1 - dependent epithelial progenitor cell , and that maternal igf - 1 be sufficient to stimulate the differentiation of epithelial progenitor cell to estrogen - independent ductal epithelial cell but not estrogen - dependent epithelial cell ( figure 7b ) .
this explain why the development of rudimentary duct be normal in either igf - 1 or erα knockout mouse and that tebs form and regress immediately before and after birth , respectively [ 17 , 26 , 27 ] .
during the prepubertal period , the rudimentary duct grow isometrically under the influence of circulate igf - 1 .
like maternal igf - 1 , circulate igf - 1 be not sufficient to induce the differentiation of estrogen - independent ductal epithelial cell into estrogen - dependent epithelial cell , which will express erα and become estrogen dependent ( figure 7b ) .
at the onset of puberty , ovarian estrogen , in synergy with pituitary gh , cause a surge in the production of stromal cell - derive local igf - 1 and stimulate the differentiation of estrogen - independent ductal epithelial cell to estrogen - dependent epithelial cell , which begin postnatal development of mammary gland ( figure 7b ) .
impede ductal morphogenesis result in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse because local igf - 1 be apparently not sufficient to overcome increase igfbp - 1 in mammary adipose tissue .
sirt1 therefore positively regulate the efficacy of the estrogen – igf - 1 signaling for ductal epithelial cell proliferation and differentiation .
the potential effect of modulate sirt1 activity
breast cancer result from the accumulation of inherit and / or somatic mutation .
lifetime exposure to estrogen be a major risk factor for breast cancer , and a number of lifestyle factor , such a diet , body fat , alcohol consumption , exercise , parity , and hormone replacement therapy , may influence a woman 's exposure to estrogen .
the compound personal risk to a woman be difficult to assess because the molecular link between these factor and the effect of estrogen be poorly understand .
the result of this study demonstrate that sirt1 positively modulate the efficacy of the estrogen – igf - 1 signal .
this suggest that if sirt1 serve a a lifetime sensor to dietary restriction and acute withdrawal of nutrient [ 14 , 57 ] , it activity could ultimately influence the risk of breast cancer .
interestingly , an epidemiological study of dutch famine in 1945 indicate that an exposure to famine at prepubertal age increase the risk of breast cancer , most clearly see in woman who never give birth [ 58 ] .
moreover , the serum level of estrogen and igf - 1 be increase among those expose to the famine , which suggest that an epigenetic adaptation phenomenon may take place .
assess the potential correlation between the enzymatic activity of sirt1 and the risk of breast cancer be therefore of great interest in order to identify feasible target for chemoprevention against breast cancer .
several dietary polyphenols as well a small molecule have be identify a either agonist or antagonist of sirt1 [ 59 , 60 ] .
the pharmacological effect of these compound in human remain elusive give that sirt1 target multiple transcription factor and exert pleiotropic effect .
nonetheless , our study of sirt1ko / ko mouse demonstrate the potential utility of sirt1 antagonist .
specifically , reduce sirt1 activity alter the homeostasis of cellular response , include deregulation of the expression of igfbp - 1 and iκbα , which can attenuate the stimulation from the estrogen – igf - 1 signaling and potentially desensitize mammary epithelial cell to nf - κb activation .
sirt1 be therefore a candidate target for chemoprevention against breast cancer .
conclusion
the study of mammary gland development be an excellent model system for unravel how sirt1 modulate the efficacy of the estrogen – igf - 1 signaling and regulate the timing of ductal morphogenesis .
these new mechanistic insight may also aid in understand the role of sirt1 in breast cancer as well a in other organ in which local igf - 1 play an important role .
abbreviation
atm = ataxia telangiectasia ; brdu = bromodeoxyurdine ; cmv = cytomegalovirus ; erα = estrogen receptor alpha ; foxo = forkhead box ' other ' protein ; gh = growth hormone ; igf - 1 = insulin - like growth factor - 1 ; igfbp - 1 = insulin - like growth factor - 1 binding protein - 1 ; h & e = hemotoxylin and eosin ; ii = insulin / insulin - like growth factor - 1 signaling ; iκbα = inhibitor of nf - κb alpha subunit ; ikkα = iκb kinase alpha ; mef = murine embryonic fibroblast ; nf = nuclear factor ; pcr = polymerase chain reaction ; rank = receptor activator of nf - κb ; sir = silencing information regulator ; teb = terminal end bud ; tnf = tumor necrosis factor .
compete interest
the author declare that they have no compete interest .
author ' contribution
hl characterize the phenotype of the sirt1 mutant mouse , participate in the design of the study , and help to draft the manuscript .
gkr and nl help to characterize the phenotype .
cw generate the sirt1 mutant embryonic stem cell and mouse .
bpr help analyze the histology data .
yg conceive of the study , participate in it design and coordination , and draft the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
supplementary material
additional file 1
a pdf file contain the material and method for the generation of sirt1ko / ko mouse .
this support file document the detail of material and method use to generate both sirt1co / co mouse and sirt1ko / ko mouse .
click here for file
acknowledgement
the study be support by grant from the american cancer society ( rsg - 04 - 019 - 01 - cne ) and the nathan shock center of excellence in the biology of aging at the university of washington ( to yg ) .
the author thank jennifer blasi , thomas gernon , janet leath , jennifer lee , bryce sopher , loraine warner , and heather - marie wilson for their contribution in the early phase of the study , and dr fred alt , dr mary helen barcellos - hoff , dr mark groudine , dr warren ladiges , dr george martin , dr peter rabinovitch , and dr jeffrey schwartz for their support and advice .
figure and table
figure 1
generation and characterization of sirt1co / co and sirt1ko / ko mouse .
( a ) mouse sirt1 wild - type allele ( sirt1 + ) , conditional target allele ( sirt1co ) , and knockout allele ( sirt1ko ) .
b , bamhi .
( b ) western blot analysis of sirt1 expression in wild - type ( + / + ) , conditional target ( co / co ) , heterozygote ( + / ko ) , and knockout ( ko / ko ) murine embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) and mammary tissue ( mg ) .
( c ) growth retardation in survive sirt1ko / ko mouse ( open bar ) use sibling mouse or age - match mouse of control genotype ( fill bar ) .
( d ) the serum level of insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( igf - 1 ) in wild - type ( + / + ) , sirt1 + / ko ( + / ko ) , and sirt1ko / ko ( ko / ko ) mouse .
( e ) the survival curve of wild - type ( wt ) , sirt1co / co , sirt1ko / ko , and ku70 - / - embryonic stem cell after ionize radiation .
( f ) the survival curve of wild - type ( wt ) , sirt1ko / ko , ku70 - / - , and atm - / - embryonic stem cell after treatment with hydrogen peroxide .
figure 2
lactation failure in sirt1ko / ko mouse .
( a ) whole mount analysis of the mammary tissue from virgin wild - type ( + / + ) and sirt1ko / ko mouse ( ko / ko ) .
scale bar = 2 mm .
( b ) histological analysis of the mammary tissue harvest from wild - type ( + / + ) and sirt1ko / ko female mouse on either day 13 of pregnancy ( p13 ) or lactation day 1 ( l1 ) .
scale bar = 100 μm .
( c ) immunofluorescence staining of milk production in the mammary tissue from wild - type ( + / + ) and sirt1ko / ko mouse on l1 .
red and smear stain , mouse milk protein ; blue dot , nuclear staining of adipocytes , epithelial cell , and other cell in mammary tissue .
scale bar = 100 μm .
figure 3
pregnancy - induce ductal morphogenesis .
( a ) whole mount analysis of mammary gland development .
upper panel : wild - type ( + / + ) mouse show terminal end bud ( tebs ) at the onset of puberty , elongate duct ( virgin mouse ) , site branching during pregnancy ( p13 ) , and lobuloalveolar structure for milk production on lactation day 1 ( l1 ) .
low panel : virgin sirt1ko / ko ( ko / ko ) mouse show impede ductal morphogenesis .
pregnancy - induce ductal morphogenesis manifest transitional tebs , ductal elongation , and side branching with variety in three sirt1ko / ko mouse on l1 .
all scale bar = 200 μm .
( b ) western blot analysis of both insulin - like growth factor - 1 bind protein - 1 ( igfbp - 1 ) and iκbα in mammary tissue of male mouse , virgin mouse , and l1 female mouse of wild type ( + / + ) and sirt1ko / ko ( ko / ko ) .
actin be use a a loading control .
low panel score the estimate density of indicate lineage of cell in the protein extract , which be base on the morphological analysis in ( a ) .
figure 4
estrogen implantation stimulate ductal elongation and site branching .
( a ) whole mount analysis of the mammary tissue from the virgin wild - type ( + / + ) and sirt1ko / ko mouse implant with estrogen pellet ( + e2 ) on day 14 and day 21 .
scale bar = 200 μm .
( b ) western blot analysis of the expression of insulin - like growth factor - 1 binding protein - 1 ( igfbp - 1 ) and iκbα , with actin a a loading control , in mammary tissue from the virgin wild - type ( + / + ) and sirt1ko / ko mouse implant with estrogen pellet on day 21 .
figure 5
mammary epithelial cell proliferation and apoptosis in sirt1ko / ko mouse on lactation day 1 .
( a ) upper panel : bromodeoxyurdine ( brdu ) staining of the mammary section from sirt1ko / ko ( ko / ko ) and wild - type ( + / + ) mouse on day 13 of pregnancy ( p13 ) and lactation day 1 ( l1 ) .
from left to right , three terminal end bud ( tebs ) at a scale of 100 μm , a single teb , duct , and alveolus of sirt1ko / ko mouse at a scale of 20 μm , and duct and alveolus of wild - type mouse on p13 and l1 at a scale of 20 μm .
low panel : tunel ( terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase mediate dutp nick end labeling ) assay for apoptotic cell use section neighbor to the section for brdu staining .
( b ) the quantitative analysis of brdu - positive epithelial cell in tebs , duct , and alveolus of sirt1ko / ko mouse on l1 ( open bar ) and wild - type mouse on p13 ( grey bar ) and l1 ( solid bar ) .
( c ) the quantitative analysis of tunel - positive cell in neighbor section .
figure 6
sirt1 deficiency derail nf - κb signaling in response to tnfα stimulation .
( a ) western blot analysis of iκbα expression in sirt1ko / ko ( ko / ko ) and wild - type ( + / + ) murine embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) within the first hour after tnfα stimulation .
actin be use a a loading control .
( b ) the relative level of newly synthesize iκbα in three independent sirt1ko / ko mef line ( red circle , blue and green triangle ) and wild - type mefs after tnfα stimulation .
for each line of mefs , the unit of iκbα protein at each time point be relative to the unit 0 minute after normalization with actin .
figure 7
sirt1 modulate estrogen – insulin - like growth factor - 1 signaling for ductal morphogenesis : a model .
( a ) the insulin / insulin - like growth factor - 1 ( igf - 1 ) signaling system : both sirt1 and akt kinase can negatively regulate the transcription activity of forkhead box ' other ' protein ( foxo ) protein .
sirt1 deficiency deregulate the expression of insulin - like growth factor - 1 binding protein - 1 ( igfbp - 1 ) , which may exert autocrine and / or paracrine effect to inhibit igf - 1 .
( b ) mammary epithelial precursor cell ( epc ) express igf - 1 receptor ( igf - 1r ) and can differentiate into estrogen receptor ( er ) - negative ductal epithelial cell ( dec - i ) in response to maternal , circulate , or estrogen - stimulate , stromal cell ( s ) - derive local igf - 1 .
at the onset of puberty , ovarian estrogen , in synergy with growth hormone ( gh ) , enhance the production of local igf - 1 and stimulate the differentiation of dec - i to er - positive ductal epithelial cell ( dec - ii ) .
sirt1 deficiency deregulate the expression of igfbp - 1 in adipose tissue ( a ) , however , which attenuate the efficacy of the igf - 1 signaling and cause impede ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse .
either pregnancy or exogenous estrogen can overcome the impede ductal morphogenesis in virgin sirt1ko / ko mouse and can stimulate the differentiation of epc .
table 1
perinatal lethality , fertility , and lactation defect in sirt1ko / ko mouse
more than 10 pair of sirt1 + / ko male mouse and sirt1 + / ko female mouse be use for breeding .
data in parenthesis indicate the number of pup of this genotype find dead within 3 day after their birth .
a total number of survive pup at weaning ( postnatal day 21 ) .
fog2 be require for normal diaphragm and lung development in mouse and human
abstract
congenital diaphragmatic hernia and other congenital diaphragmatic defect be associated with significant mortality and morbidity in neonate ; however , the molecular basis of these developmental anomaly be unknown .
in an analysis of e18.5 embryo derive from mouse treat with n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea , we identify a mutation that cause pulmonary hypoplasia and abnormal diaphragmatic development .
fog2 ( zfpm2 ) map within the recombinant interval carry the n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea - induce mutation , and dna sequencing of fog2 identify a mutation in a splice donor site that generate an abnormal transcript encode a truncate protein .
human autopsy case with diaphragmatic defect and pulmonary hypoplasia be evaluate for mutation in fog2 .
sequence analysis reveal a de novo mutation result in a premature stop codon in a child who die on the first day of life secondary to severe bilateral pulmonary hypoplasia and an abnormally muscularized diaphragm .
use a phenotype - drive approach , we have establish that fog2 be require for normal diaphragm and lung development , a role that have not be previously appreciate .
fog2 be the first gene implicate in the pathogenesis of nonsyndromic human congenital diaphragmatic defect , and it necessity for pulmonary development validate the hypothesis that neonate with congenital diaphragmatic hernia may also have primary pulmonary developmental abnormality .
synopsis
birth defect involve the diaphragm be as common and as serious a genetic disorder such a cystic fibrosis , yet the underlie cause of these defect be unknown .
most baby bear with diaphragmatic defect have very small lung , and many die in the newborn period with severe breathing difficulty .
it be unknown whether the small lung occur because these child have a diaphragmatic defect , or whether some patient might have a genetic abnormality that affect the development of both the lung and the diaphragm simultaneously .
in a screen of fetal mouse carry chemically induce genetic mutation , the author find that a mutation in the gene fog2 ( friend of gata 2 ) , cause abnormal diaphragm development and small lung .
the lung have a primary developmental abnormality that include the specific loss of one lung lobe .
base on this result , the author study child affect with diaphragmatic abnormality , and identify one human baby with a serious mutation in the human gene fog2 who die at five hour of life with severe breathing difficulty , a diaphragmatic defect , and small lung .
the author have establish that fog2 be necessary for both diaphragm and lung development in mouse and in human .
this be the first known cause of a nonsyndromic congenital diaphragmatic defect and establish that some patient may have a primary developmental abnormality of both the lung and the diaphragm .
introduction
congenital diaphragmatic defect be a spectrum of relatively common birth defect .
the bochdalek or posterolateral hernia ( often refer to a congenital diaphragmatic hernia [ cdh ] ) occur in 1 / 3,000 live birth [ 1 ] , and although these be the most common type of diaphragmatic defect present at birth , diaphragmatic aplasia and diaphragmatic muscularization defect ( eventration ) may have a similar clinical presentation .
make specific anatomic distinction among these type of defect can be difficult without direct gross ( intraoperative or postmortem ) examination .
pulmonary hypoplasia associated with these diaphragmatic defect cause severe mortality and morbidity .
the pathogenesis and developmental relationship between diaphragmatic defect and pulmonary hypoplasia be not understand .
although advance in the medical management of pulmonary hypoplasia may have decrease the mortality associated with cdh patient who survive to receive care at high - volume center [ 2 , 3 ] , the population - base mortality have be report to be as great a 62 % , and there be a large number of death prior to birth or to transfer to a tertiary care facility [ 4 ] .
a these patient commonly present with severe respiratory failure at birth , therapy have be center around develop good method to provide ventilatory support while not produce further lung injury .
extracorporeal membrane oxygenation ( ecmo ) be use in some center to provide an extended period of cardiopulmonary bypass [ 5 , 6 ] , while other center have success use other ventilatory support technique [ 7 ] .
the morbidity in those who survive be high , and many patient survive with chronic respiratory insufficiency , cognitive and neuromotor deficit , and hearing loss a a result of necessary intensive intervention and associate structural and irreversible developmental abnormality [ 8 – 11 ] .
to date , there have be no specific mutation find to be associated with nonsyndromic diaphragmatic defect and pulmonary hypoplasia in human .
the heritability of these defect be unclear , a the high morbidity and mortality limit the collection of multigenerational family for analysis .
the genetic etiology be likely to be complex and probably arise from different mutation in various part of the molecular developmental pathway require for diaphragmatic development .
indeed , there be numerous report implicate different chromosomal abnormality in the pathogenesis of cdh [ 12 , 13 ] .
give the difficulty of study lethal developmental abnormality in human , it be of great potential utility to develop animal model of human birth defect , a the specific genetic abnormality find in animal model can then be investigate in human population .
we screen mouse treat with the chemical mutagen n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea ( enu ) for line with developmental defect that present in the perinatal period [ 14 ] .
from this screen , we identify a line of mouse carry a recessive mutation that result in primary pulmonary hypoplasia and abnormal diaphragmatic and cardiac development .
positional cloning analysis identify fog2 ( zfpm2 ) a a likely candidate , and dna sequencing reveal a mutation in a splice donor site that generate an abnormal transcript encode a truncate protein .
this result suggest that we examine the orthologous gene in human with similar developmental defect , and we report the finding of a de novo nonsense mutation in fog2 in a patient who die at birth with a diaphragmatic defect and severe pulmonary hypoplasia .
this be the first report mutation associated with these abnormality in a human .
we present additional data that provide direct evidence that pulmonary hypoplasia may be a primary component of this spectrum of disorder .
result
identification of the little lung mutation in fog2
we screen third - generation progeny of enu - mutagenized mouse at embryonic day 18.5 ( e18.5 ) for abnormal developmental phenotype [ 14 ] .
one line of mouse be find to have multiple embryo in independent litter that display pulmonary hypoplasia and a thin diaphragm .
the mutation , which we call little lung ( lil ) , be map to chromosome 15 by utilize a strategy of interval haplotype analysis ( data not show ) [ 15 ] .
for high - resolution mapping , f2 progeny from two cross be analyze .
in 450 progeny of an intercross of f1 ( a / j × fvb / n ) lil / + mouse , the interval contain the mutation be define by 19 recombinant between d15mit220 and d15mit154 .
because of the lack of informative marker within this interval , an additional 39 f2 progeny from an a / j × c57bl / 6j cross be test .
the identification of two recombinant establish d15mit85 a the proximal and d15mit5 a the distal flanking marker .
the lil phenotype be identify at e18.5 to have bilateral pulmonary hypoplasia and an abnormal diaphragm .
pulmonary hypoplasia be apparent in all mutant mouse that survive to birth .
in a comparison between wild - type and mutant mouse find dead on day one of life , body weight be not different ; however , the lung weight be significantly low in the mutant mouse .
the average mutant lung weight be 9.6 ± 2.5 mg while the average wild - type lung weight be 26.4 ± 4.6 mg ( p < 0.001 ) .
all lung from mutant mouse be lack an accessory lobe on the right side and have underdevelopment of the anterior right middle lobe ( figure 1a ) .
diaphragm from mutant lil mouse be intact , but muscularization be absent in the dorsal region .
myotubules be present in a limited and abnormal distribution .
more specifically , myotubules normally radiate in a mediolateral fashion to meet the lateral body wall , with a normal paucity of muscle fiber in the central tendonous region .
in the mutant diaphragm , myotubules radiate in a dorsal – ventral orientation , and muscle tissue do not meet the entire surface of the body wall ( figure 1b ) .
the number of lil mutant mouse that survive to birth be less than 5 % of total progeny , rather than the 25 % expect for a recessive mutation .
we evaluate litter at different embryonic time point to determine whether the reduce number be due to intra-uterine demise .
litter be collect at e12.5 , 13.5 , 15.5 , 17.5 , and 18.5 , and embryo be genotyped and evaluate for evidence of intra-uterine demise , include growth retardation , pallor , and tissue friability .
lil embryo have a progressively high rate of demise between e13.5 and e15.5 .
at e12.5 , 20 out of 87 ( 23 % ) be homozygous for the mutation , and all of these appear viable .
at e13.5 , 13 of 49 ( 27 % ) be mutant and two have die .
at e15.5 , 22 out of 91 ( 24 % ) be mutant and the majority of mutant embryo ( 17 out of the 22 ) have die .
by e18.5 , nine of 29 embryo ( 31 % ) be homozygous for the mutation , of which only one embryo be viable .
diaphragmatic muscularization be abnormal in all mutant mouse examine ( n > 25 ) .
pulmonary hypoplasia be observe in 100 % of mutant evaluate for that phenotype between e11.5 and birth ( n > 50 ) .
examination of cardiac morphology show that heart from e15.5 lil mutant mouse have a variety of developmental defect , include enlarge and abnormally develop endocardial cushion , a double - outlet right ventricle , and a complete atrioventricular canal .
the myocardium be also poorly develop , with thinning of the out compact layer and decrease vascularity .
the cohort of mutant mouse that survive to birth also have cardiac malformation include atrioventricular - canal - type ventricular septal defect , ostium primum atrial septal defect , and enlarge atrium ( data not show ) .
all mutant specifically evaluate for a cardiac phenotype ( n = 10 ) have abnormal cardiac development .
examination of the 3 - mb region between d15mit85 and d15mit5 in dna sequence database reveal three predict gene and four known gene , include fog2 .
target mutation of fog2 have cardiac defect strikingly similar to those we identify in lil mutant mouse , include atrioventricular canal defect , thin myocardium , and absent coronary vasculature [ 16 ] .
rt - pcr amplification of the proximal portion of fog2 reveal long transcript in the lil mutant than in the wild - type embryo ( figure 2a ) .
sequencing of the mutant transcript reveal a point mutation ( from thymine to cytosine ) 2 bp after position 301 , which be in the splice donor site at the end of the third exon .
this mutation cause a splicing defect that result in the insertion of 85 bp of intronic sequence into the mutant transcript , and introduce a stop codon that generate a severely truncate protein product ( figure 2b ) .
heterozygous lil mutant mouse be cross with a fog2 + / − ( null allele ) mutant generate by gene targeting [ 16 ] .
doubly heterozygous mouse have an embryonic lethal phenotype ; this failure to complement prove that lil be a mutation in fog2 .
the variable phenotype of lil mouse ( relative to that find for the fog2 null mutant ) be likely due to the generation of a low level of normal transcript despite the presence of the splice site mutation .
lung and diaphragm development in the fog2 mutant mouse
experiment be conduct to evaluate the role of fog2 in pulmonary and diaphragmatic development .
the pulmonary phenotype be characterize by diffuse hypoplasia and specific loss of the accessory lobe and a portion of the right middle lobe .
it be well establish that abnormality in either diaphragmatic development or fetal breathing can result in a secondary pulmonary hypoplasia , although loss of normal structure have never be document in this context [ 17 , 18 ] .
fog2 be express diffusely in the pulmonary mesenchyme during the period of branching morphogenesis , while late expression be restrict to the smooth muscle of airway and pulmonary vessel ( figure 3 ) .
this , and the observation that lung appear small on transverse section evaluate prior to diaphragmatic muscularization or function , suggest that the pulmonary hypoplasia occur independently of the diaphragmatic defect .
to test this hypothesis , lung be dissect from fog2 − / − mouse and littermate control before the onset of fetal diaphragmatic motion .
fog2 − / − mouse be use for this experiment , a we want to avoid potential phenotypic variance from the lil hypomorphic mutation .
lung dissect at e12 from fog2 − / − embryo be small in size and lack the development of an accessory lobe .
in 11 viable fog2 − / − lung culture explants , there be never development of an accessory lobe , and the weight of mutant lung culture for 5 d be significantly low than those of littermate control ( figure 4 ) .
these data demonstrate that the pulmonary hypoplasia in fog2 mutant mouse be a primary defect .
branching in the unaffected lobe appear to be delay by 6 – 12 h , but all mutant develop an intricate branching pattern in the unaffected lobe after culture for 5 d .
because the fog2 phenotype be striking for specific lobar loss , the spatial pattern of fog2 expression be evaluate in normal embryo during the period of early lobar establishment to determine whether fog2 expression be specifically different at these lobar bud .
expression be evaluate in mouse carry a lacz gene incorporate into the fog2 locus ( s. tevosian , unpublished data ) .
in nine mouse examine at e11.5 , all lung show a specific enhancement of fog2 expression in the mesenchyme surround the accessory bud and the right middle lobe bud , which be the lobe that do not develop normally in fog2 mutant mouse ( figure 5 ) .
by e12.5 , expression be diffuse in the pulmonary mesenchyme , a be see previously with in situ hybridization on tissue section .
diaphragm from fog2 lil mouse show an intact membrane with a defect in muscular patterning ( see figure 1b ) .
the membranous portion of the diaphragm be populate by a migratory population of muscle precursor cell , much like the limb [ 19 , 20 ] .
mouse with defect in gene know to be important for the control of this process have intact but amuscular diaphragm [ 17 , 21 , 22 ] .
hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor ( hgf ) be one potential candidate responsible for the guidance of muscle precursor to the membranous diaphragm .
it have be show that hgf be express along this anatomic pathway [ 23 ] , and mouse with absence of the hgf receptor c - met fail to form muscularized pleuroperitoneal fold ( ppfs ) , and thus have amuscular diaphragm [ 24 , 25 ] .
fog2 be express diffusely in the early amuscular diaphragm at e11.5 as well a in the late muscularized diaphragm ( see figure 3c and 3d ) .
pax3 and myod , transcription factor require for appropriate migration and determination of myogenic precursor , be detect in the ppfs of fog2 lil mouse ( data not show ) .
however , in situ expression analysis demonstrate that the expression of hgf in the region where this structure meet the membranous diaphragm be markedly reduce in fog2 mutant mouse ( figure 6 ) .
we hypothesize that fog2 be require ( either directly or indirectly ) for the induction of hgf in the develop diaphragm , and dysregulation of hgf patterning along the path of muscle precursor cell migration between the ppf and the diaphragm account for the abnormal phenotype in these mouse .
fog2 mutation in a patient with diaphragm and lung abnormality
fog2 sequence analysis be perform on autopsy tissue from 30 of 32 decease child with an anatomic diagnosis of diaphragmatic defect evaluate at the child 's hospital in boston , massachusetts , between 1993 and 2003 .
autopsy report be review to determine the specific diagnosis .
of these 30 case , 17 ( 57 % ) have bochdalek cdh , two ( 7 % ) have diaphragmatic agenesis , seven ( 23 % ) have diaphragmatic eventration / muscularization defect ( without bochdalek cdh ) , and four ( 13 % ) have bochdalek hernia of one hemidiaphragm and eventration of the other .
pulmonary hypoplasia be assess use lung / body weight ratio and radial alveolar count [ 26 ] .
the material available for review include write report and histologic slide in all case and gross kodachromes in a subset of case .
one child carry a highly significant fog2 sequence change .
the patient be a full - term 3,500 - g baby girl who develop severe respiratory failure at birth and die after 5 h of resuscitation .
antemortem radiograph show opacified lung field and possible bowel in the chest .
the patient 's clinical diagnosis be cdh .
review of autopsy material reveal severe bilateral pulmonary hypoplasia ( combine lung weight , 11.1 g ; expect for body length / weight , 46.8 ± 26.2 g ; [ 27 ] ) , most markedly involve the left lung .
the lung / body weight ratio be 0.0037 ( expect > 0.010 ) [ 28 ] .
there be a reduce number of bronchial generation , and the radial alveolar count be 2 – 3 ( expect = 5 ) [ 29 ] .
there be incomplete lung fissure bilaterally .
a deep posterior diaphragmatic eventration be present on the left side .
additionally , two muscularized ligamentous band resemble diaphragmatic remnant encircle the left lobe of the liver , create an abnormal fissure liver contour .
away from the eventration , the diaphragm appear well muscularized , measure 0.3 cm in thickness .
a complete autopsy reveal no other malformation ; the heart be determine to be grossly normal and be donate for valve harvest .
sequence analysis reveal a cytosine to thymine heterozygous change in exon 4 that change the 112th amino acid from arginine to a stop codon .
this mutation produce a severely truncate peptide that do not contain zinc finger domain ( figure 7 ) .
this base change be not present in the analysis of dna from 400 normal adult .
to assess the likelihood that the mutation be causal for the developmental phenotype , we examine both parent .
paternity be confirm , and sequence analysis reveal that the neither parent carry this mutation , prove that the patient have a de novo mutation in fog2 ( figure 7 ) .
discussion
congenital diaphragmatic defect be a heterogeneous group of disorder of unknown etiology .
the defect that present in the pre - or perinatal period include bochdalek hernia , diaphragmatic aplasia , and various degree of muscularization defect or eventration .
different type of defect occur in the same patient or in sibling , suggest these represent variable expression of the same underlie pathogenesis [ 30 , 31 ] .
clinical differentiation between these defect may be very difficult , a the residual membranous diaphragm of a muscularization defect be thin and may not be easily visible on prenatal ultrasound or postnatal chest radiograph [ 32 ] .
although diaphragmatic muscularization defect be historically consider to be predictive of a good outcome , there have be inadequate population - base study that include fetal or neonatal case and autopsy diagnosis to make this conclusion definitive .
in fact , the series of patient we report here and the publish literature indicate that an eventration defect may be associate with displacement of abdominal content and also with severe pulmonary hypoplasia and respiratory insufficiency [ 33 , 34 ] .
numerous chromosome abnormality have be find in association with congenital diaphragm abnormality [ 12 , 35 ] .
human fog2 map to chromosome 8q23.1 , and , importantly , several patient with diaphragm defect and rearrangement involve this locus have be report .
specifically , there be three unrelated cdh patient with cytogenetically balance translocation at or near the fog2 locus [ 36 , 37 ] .
additionally , two patient with deletion apparently encompass the fog2 locus have die from multiple congenital anomaly include cdh [ 38 – 40 ] .
inactivation of this gene due to chromosomal rearrangement or deletion would result in a heterozygous null mutation similar to that find in the patient we report .
because the fog2 mutation we report be de novo and the phenotype of the pulmonary and diaphragmatic defect be similar between mouse and human , we suggest that this mutation in fog2 be the first report cause of a human developmental diaphragmatic and pulmonary defect .
in contrast to the affect child , mouse heterozygous for a null mutation of fog2 appear normal .
however , there be ample precedent for the observation that haploinsufficiency of a gene with developmental function be much less well tolerate in human than mouse [ 41 ] .
it be unclear how the fog2 diaphragmatic defect relate to the more common bochdalek cdh , a the pathogenic mechanism for both be largely unknown .
muscle precursor destine to populate the diaphragm migrate from the lateral dermomyotome of cervical somite .
prior to migration onto the diaphragm , they populate the ppf , a wedge - shape tissue that taper medially from the lateral body wall to the esophageal mesentery and fuse ventrally with the septum transversum [ 42 ] .
muscle precursor reach the ppf by e11 , where they proliferate , differentiate , and then migrate toward the dorsolateral costal , sternal costal , and crural region of the develop diaphragm .
thus , a defect in ppf formation subsequently result in the abnormal formation of the diaphragm [ 43 ] .
we have show that the fog2 mutant do have an abnormal pattern of hgf expression in the region through which muscle precursor cell migrate onto the develop diaphragm .
this finding may account for the abnormally pattern muscle that develop in the fog2 mutant diaphragm .
although pax3 and myod expression be detect in the ppf , a detailed analysis of transcription factor responsible for muscle precursor cell migration and differentiation will need to be complete both in the ppf and along the pathway of muscle precursor cell migration between the ppf and the membranous diaphragm .
fog2 can interact with any of the gata factor , gatas 1 – 6 , as well a other transcription factor such a couptfii [ 44 , 45 ] .
it be know that a fog2 – gata4 interaction be critical for normal cardiac and gonadal development , but interact factor in the lung and diaphragm have not yet be determine .
the severity of pulmonary hypoplasia in the patient we report be out of proportion to that of the diaphragm defect .
pulmonary hypoplasia be associated with abnormal diaphragmatic anatomy or function , and be know to occur a a secondary developmental defect in model of diaphragmatic dysfunction such a complete amuscularization [ 17 ] or phrenic nerve disruption [ 46 ] .
it occur in a surgical model of cdh in which a hernia be physically create in an in utero lamb [ 47 , 48 ] .
however , the possibility that primary pulmonary developmental abnormality occur with , rather than secondary to , diaphragmatic defect have be suggest by others base on a teratogenic model of cdh [ 49 – 51 ] and have long be suspect by clinician who care for these patient .
in addition , the high incidence of lobar abnormality associated with cdh [ 52 ] support the possibility that this disorder can be associate with a primary developmental pulmonary abnormality .
our analysis of mouse carry mutation of fog2 prove that there be a primary defect in lung development that result in specific loss of the accessory lobe and partial loss of the right middle lobe .
the specific lobar defect prompt u to evaluate fog2 expression at the time of early lobar budding .
while fog2 expression be diffuse in the pulmonary mesenchyme after lobar structure be well establish ( e12.5 ) , it be more focally express in the mesenchyme surround the right middle lobe and accessory bud a these lobe form .
this match the phenotype of right middle lobe and accessory lobe loss , and suggest that fog2 have a specific patterning role in establishment of these lobe .
it be less clear whether loss of fog2 result in a global branching defect , a fog2 lung appear to have a slight developmental delay , which could result from many cause .
culture fog2 lung do develop an intricate branching pattern in the unaffected lobe that appear similar in the pattern to wild - type lung after 5 d in culture .
in this report , we show that a mutation of fog2 in the mouse cause the phenotype of abnormal diaphragmatic muscularization and primary pulmonary hypoplasia .
we furthermore demonstrate that a mutation in this gene be associated with a lethal defect in lung and diaphragm development in a child .
it be notable that , despite extensive analysis of fog2 biology and the generation of a fog2 knock - out mouse , it role in diaphragm and lung development be previously not recognize .
it be only a a consequence of phenotype - drive analysis such a those we be pursue that one have the opportunity to assay all of the potential molecular derangement that may result in human disease .
material and method
these investigation be conduct with approval of the institutional review board for child 's hospital , boston , and brigham and woman 's hospital , boston .
animal use be approve by the center for animal resource and comparative medicine ( harvard medical school ) .
genetic mapping of the mouse mutation lil .
the lil mutation be identify a describe in result .
wild - type fvb / n and c57bl / 6j mouse use for genetic cross be obtain from the jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , maine , united state ) .
mouse carry a null mutation of fog2 generate by gene targeting [ 16 ] be the generous gift of dr. stuart orkin .
developmental analysis of mouse .
timed pregnancy be set up for collection of e11.5 – e17.5 embryo .
embryo be fix , dehydrate , and embed in paraffin prior to sectioning .
in old embryo , a median sternotomy be perform under microscopic guidance , and diaphragm , lung , and heart be examine .
the lung and tracheobronchial tree be remove and weigh .
whole diaphragm be isolate from fix thoracic tissue from e15.5 and e17.5 embryo .
for lung explant culture , lung be dissect from fresh embryo at e11.5 and e12.5 and place on porous 24 - mm ( 0.4 - μ ) polyester membrane float in well contain 2 ml of dulbecco 's modify eagle 's medium , nutrient mixture f - 12 ( 11039 – 021 , gibco , san diego , california , united state ) , supplement with 10 % fetal bovine serum , 0.3 mg / ml l - glutamine , 100 unit / ml penicillin , 100 mcg / ml streptomycin , and 0.25 mcg / ml amphotericin b .
lung explants be culture at 37 °c in 95 % air / 5 % co2 for up to 5 d .
they be photograph daily with a dissect microscope ( mz12.5 , leica , wetzlar , germany ) equip with a leica dc500 digital camera .
transgenic mouse carry the lacz gene drive by the fog2 promoter have be develop by s. tevosian .
in these animal , the lacz gene be incorporate ( “ knock - in ” ) into the fog2 locus to allow β - galactosidase expression a a fusion protein in frame with the first 235 amino acid of the fog2 protein .
the fog2 - lacz module be follow by an ire - egfp cassette .
this create a null allele of fog2 gene .
the fog2 - lacz - egfp construct be linearize with kspi and electroporated into the cj7 e cell .
the correctly target clone be select by the southern blot analysis and inject into c57bl / 6j blastocyst .
fog2 - lacz - egfp animal be maintain on the mixed c57bl / 6j / 129 background .
lacz expression in whole dissect embryonic lung be analyze by stain for β - galactosidase activity with x - gal after fixation for 30 min .
rt - pcr and sequence analysis in the mouse .
rna be extract by standard technique from thoracic embryonic tissue .
rt - pcr be perform use six primer set design to cover the fog2 gene .
rt - pcr be repeat with radiolabeled primer to amplify an abnormally splice region of the gene ( table s1 ) , and the product be run on a denature sequencing gel accord to standard technique .
the rt - pcr product be clone into pcr2.1 vector use topo ta cloning kit ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) and sequence use gene - specific primer .
sequence analysis be do use sequencher 4.1 ( gene code , ann arbor , michigan , united state ) .
in situ hybridization .
after dehydration and embedding in paraffin wax , 10 - μ section be subject to radioactive in situ hybridization a describe [ 53 ] .
probe label with 35s be prepare by run - off transcription of linearize plasmid template and hybridize to tissue section .
nucleus be counterstained with hoescht 33258 , and signal be image use fluorescent and darkfield microscopy .
human dna extraction and sequence analysis .
dna be isolate from paraffin block by phenol - chloroform extraction [ 54 , 55 ] , and from freeze tissue by standard technique .
primer be design to amplify fog2 coding exon plus 50 bp of flank upstream and downstream sequence .
pcr amplification and sequencing be perform by standard method .
primer sequence use be list in table s2 .
sequence analysis be do with sequencher 4.1 ( gene code ) .
dna from the parent of one autopsy patient be extract from fresh blood sample .
a second set of blood sample be send to an outside clia - certify laboratory for dna extraction , pcr , sequencing , and analysis .
paternity testing be perform by the outside laboratory use a standard panel of marker .
snp genotyping be do use harvard partner center for genetics and genomics genotyping core facility ( cambridge , massachusetts , united state ) .
support information
table s1
primer for rt - pcr ( mouse ) : amplification of abnormal transcript in fog2 mutant ( lil ) mouse
( 26 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
table s2
human primer for amplification of fog2 coding sequence from genomic dna
( 46 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
this manuscript be dedicate to baby lucy and her parent for the contribution that they have make to help u to understand developmental diaphragmatic and lung defect .
this work be fund by national institute of child health and human development ( nihcd ) grant hd36404 ( drb ) and the hearst foundation ( kga ) .
kga also receive salary support from nichd grant t32hd040129 – 02 .
we would like to thank stuart orkin , m. d. , for the generous gift of his fog2 − / − mouse .
we would also like to thank raju kucherlapati , ph. d. , and birgit funke , ph. d. , for provide control dna sample .
abbreviation
cdh - congenital diaphragmatic hernia
e [ number ] - embryonic day [ number ]
enu - n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea
hgf - hepatocyte growth factor / scatter factor
lil - little lung
ppf - pleuroperitoneal fold
figure
figure 1
abnormal pulmonary and diaphragmatic development in the lil mouse
( a ) the mutant hypoplastic lung ( right ) lack the development of the accessory lobe and the anterior portion of the right middle lobe ( mark with arrow on the control sample on the left ) .
( b ) whole diaphragm show a lack of normal muscularization in the posterolateral region and the peripheral region of the mutant diaphragm ( control on left and lil diaphragm on the right ) .
figure 2
the enu - induce lil mutation in fog2 be a splice site mutation
( a ) rt - pcr reveal a lengthen transcript in mouse with the lil phenotype : the first band be a lil mouse , and the second band be a control mouse .
( b ) sequence fog2 reveal a splice site mutation that cause the insertion of 85 bp of intronic sequence in the mutant mouse .
this result in a premature stop codon prior to zinc finger transcription .
figure 3
fog2 be express in the develop lung and diaphragm
fog2 be express in the diffuse pulmonary mesenchyme at e13.5 ( a ) ( arrow show mesenchyme ) and be restrict to the bronchial and vascular smooth muscle ( sm ) at e16.5 ( b ) .
fog2 be express diffusely in the develop diaphragm ( dia ) both prior to ( e11.5 ) ( c ) and after muscularization ( e13.5 ) ( d ) .
figure 4
fog2 be necessary for primary lung development
fog2 null lung remove prior to diaphragmatic muscularization and grow in vitro show no accessory lobe development .
accessory lobe be label with black arrow in control littermate lung .
figure 5
fog2 expression in embryonic non-mutant lung
in embryonic non-mutant lung , fog2 be most highly express at the tip of the accessory ( single arrow ) and right middle lobe ( double arrow ) at e11.25 ( a ) and e11.75 ( b ) , while expression be diffuse by e12.75 ( c ) .
figure 6
hgf patterning be abnormal in fog2 null mouse
in situ hybridization of hgf in e12.5 wild - type ( a ) and fog2 − / − ( b ) embryo demonstrate decrease expression in the region where the ppf meet the membranous diaphragm .
li , liver ; lu , lung .
figure 7
fog2 mutation in a patient with diaphragm and lung abnormality
sequencing reveal a de novo heterozygote nonsense mutation in a patient who die at birth with severe pulmonary hypoplasia and a posterior deep diaphragmatic eventration .
she be clinically diagnose with cdh .
this nonsense mutation occur prior to the functional zinc finger domain .
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
kga , jjg , and drb conceive and design the experiment .
kga , bjh , hh , sgt , lk , cr , rpb , and jae perform the experiment .
kga , bjh , hh , lk , cr , jae , jjg , and drb analyze the data .
kga , sov , sgt , brp , jae , jjg , and drb contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
kga and drb write the paper .
citation : ackerman kg , herron bj , vargas so , huang h , tevosian sg , et al. ( 2005 ) fog2 be require for normal diaphragm and lung development in mouse and human .
plo genet 1 ( 1 ) : e10 .
characterization of the mouse dazap1 gene encode an rna - bind protein that interact with infertility factor daz and dazl
abstract
background
dazap1 ( daz associate protein 1 ) be originally identify by a yeast two - hybrid system through it interaction with a putative male infertility factor , daz ( delete in azoospermia ) .
in vitro , dazap1 interact with both the y chromosome - encode daz and an autosome - encode daz - like protein , dazl .
dazap1 contain two rna - bind domain ( rbds ) and a proline - rich c - terminal portion , and be express most abundantly in the testis .
to understand the biological function of dazap1 and the significance of it interaction with daz and dazl , we isolate and characterize the mouse dazap1 gene , and study it expression and the subcellular localization of it protein product .
result
the human and mouse gene have similar genomic structure and map to syntenic chromosomal region .
the mouse and human dazap1 protein share 98 % identity and their sequence be highly similar to the xenopus orthologue prrp , especially in the rbds .
dazap1 be express throughout testis development .
western blot detect a single 45 kd dazap1 protein that be most abundant in the testis .
although a majority of dazap1 be present in the cytoplasmic fraction , they be not associate with polyribosomes .
conclusion
dazap1 be evolutionarily highly conserve .
it predominant expression in testis suggest a role in spermatogenesis .
it subcellular localization indicate that it be not directly involved in mrna translation .
background
spermatogenesis be a complex developmental process in which male germ cell progress through mitotic proliferation , meiotic division and dramatic morphological change to form mature sperm .
this process be vital for the propagation of a specie , and involve a large portion of the genome of an organism to ensure the quality and quantity of the final product .
it be estimate that mutation in up to 11 % of all gene in drosophila might lead to male sterility [ 1 ] .
this be likely to be true for human also , consider the extremely high incidence ( 4 – 5 % ) of infertility in men [ 2 ] .
among the gene associate with male infertility be the daz ( delete in azoospermia ) gene family .
the family include the y - link daz gene that be present only in great ape and old world monkey [ 3 ] , and the autosomal dazl1 ( daz - like 1 ) and boule gene [ 4 , 5 ] in all mammal .
deletion of the daz gene be find in about 10 % of infertile male with idiopathic azoospermia [ 2 ] , and disruption of dazl1 cause infertility in both male and female mouse [ 6 ] .
mutation in the daz family member of drosophila [ 7 ] , c. elegans [ 8 ] , and xenopus [ 9 ] also affect the fertility in either male , female , or both sex .
the daz gene family encode rna bind protein that be express specifically in germ cell .
daz and dazl be express in the nucleus and cytoplasm of primordial germ cell and spermatogonia , and in the cytoplasm of meiotic spermatocyte [ 6 , 10 ] .
boule be express later , in the cytoplasm of pachytene spermatocyte [ 5 ] .
genetic and biochemical study suggest a role for the daz family in the regulation of mrna translation .
drosophila boule mutant be defective in the translation of the meiosis - specific cdc25 homologue , twine [ 11 ] , and dazl be find to be associate with polyribosomes in mouse testis [ 12 ] .
more recently , dazl be show both in vitro and in a yeast three - hybrid system to bind specifically to oligo ( u ) stretch intersperse by g or c residue , include a u - rich segment in the 5 ' utr of mouse cdc25c mrna [ 13 ] .
in an attempt to elucidate the function of the daz gene family and to understand the mechanism of it action , we use a yeast two - hybrid system to isolate two human gene encode daz associated protein ( dazaps ) [ 14 ] .
one of them , dazap1 , be express predominantly in testis .
it encode a protein with two rna bind domain and a proline rich c - terminal portion .
the dazap1 protein interact with both daz and dazl in vitro .
it also bind to rna homopolymers .
we now report our characterization of the mouse dazap1 gene and it protein product .
the subcellular localization of dazap1 suggest that it be not involve directly in mrna translation .
result
characterization of the mouse dazap1 cdna
mouse dazap1 cdna clone be isolate by library screening , and the 5 ' end of the cdna be isolate by 5 ' race [ 15 ] .
the near fall length cdna consist of a 53 bp 5 ' untranslated region ( utr ) , an open reading frame for a protein of 405 amino acid residue , and a 362 bp 3 ' utr ( genbank accession no : af225910 ) .
the cod region share 89 % similarity with that of the human orthologue .
the 3 ' utr sequence be remarkably conserved .
it contain three segment of 35 bp , 133 bp and 90 bp that share 85 % , 90 % , and 97 % similarity with segment in the human 3 ' utr , respectively .
these segment probably contain regulatory element .
the dazap1 protein contain two rna - bind domain ( rbds ) and a c - terminal portion that be rich in proline ( figure 1 ) .
it be highly conserve evolutionarily .
the mouse and the human protein differ in 9 amino acid only , with 7 substitution and two deletion / insertion .
the mammalian protein share 89 % similarity and 81 % identity with xenopus prrp ( for proline - rich rna binding protein ) [ 16 ] .
the two rbds be especially highly conserve .
they share 98 % and 97 % similarity and 97 % and 92 % identity , respectively , between dazap1 and prrp .
these protein may therefore have a similar rna binding specificity .
the c - terminal proline - rich portion of dazap1 and prrp be less conserved ( 81 % similarity and 71 % identity ) .
there be an insertion of a 58 bp segment in prrp cdna that cause a change of reading frame and result in a short prrp with a different c - terminal end sequence .
figure 1
evolutionary conservation of the dazap1 protein .
the amino acid sequence of the human and mouse dazap1s and the xenopus prrp be compare .
the two rna binding domain be box .
difference between the human and the mouse sequence , and between the mouse and xenopus sequence be mark by # 's and * 's , respectively .
genomic structure of dazap1 and chromosomal mapping
several overlap lambda clone contain mouse dazap1 genomic sequence be isolate .
the location of exon be determine by pcr amplification across exon - intron boundary follow by sequencing .
all but the first exon be isolate and map .
the genomic structure of the human dazap1 gene be also determine by blast the human genome sequence at national center for biotechnology information with the human dazap1 cdna sequence .
the mouse and the human gene have very similar structure , consist of 12 exon span about 28 kb .
all intron insertion site be conserve ( table 1 ) .
the two rbds be encode by exon 1 – 4 and 5 – 8 , respectively .
table 1
exon - intron organization of the mouse and human dazap1 gene
a : intron be insert after the indicate nucleotide position of dazap1 cdna sequence .
genbank accession number for mouse and human cdna be af225910 and af181719 , respectively .
a pair of pcr primer be design from dazap1 intronic sequence that amplify mouse but not hamster genomic sequence .
use a panel of mouse - hamster radiation hybrid , the mouse dazap1 gene be map to chromosome 10 place 27.84 cr from d10mit260 ( lod > 3.0 ) ( data not show ) .
this region be syntenic to human 19p13.3 where the human dazap1 gene be locate [ 14 , 17 ] .
it contain no know mutant allele that be associate with infertility .
expression of dazap1
northern analysis of adult mouse tissue show the presence of two dazap1 transcript of 1.75 kb and 2.4 kb , respectively ( figure 2 ) .
only the short transcript have be isolate in cdna clone .
dazap1 be express most abundantly in the testis , much less in liver , heart and brain , and even less in other tissue .
this pattern of expression be similar to that of the human dazap1 ( 14 ) .
rt - pcr analysis show that dazap1 mrna be already present in fetal testis at embryonic day 15 , similar to dazl1 mrna ( figure 3 ) .
the expression of both dazl1 and dazap1 persist throughout testis development , in both the prenatal and postnatal period .
dazl1 and dazap1 transcript be also present in the testis of wv / wv mutant mouse which contain diminish number of germ cell [ 18 ] .
however , only dazap1 be express in a mouse germ cell line gcl - spg [ 19 ] and a sertoli cell line mt4 .
the result suggest that dazap1 be express in both somatic and germ cell in the testis .
figure 2
expression of dazap1 in adult mouse tissue .
a mouse multiple - tissue northern blot be hybridize with a dazap1 cdna probe , strip , and rehybridized with a β - actin probe .
dazap1 be express most abundantly in the testis .
figure 3
developmental expression of dazap1 and dazl in mouse testis .
rt - pcr be perform on total testicular rna isolate from day 15 ( el 5 ) and day 17 ( el 7 ) embryo , new born mouse ( day 0 ) , and mouse at various day after birth .
wv / wv testis contain diminish germ cell population due to a mutate w ( white spot ) gene .
gc1 and mt4 be mouse germ cell and sertoli cell line , respectively , and gdna be mouse genomic dna .
the pcr primer span over intron and produce much large ( if any ) fragment from genomic dna .
to study the expression of the dazap1 protein , two antibody against mouse dazap1 be generate .
the anti dazap1 - c antibody be raise against a recombinant protein contain the c - terminal proline - rich portion , and the anti dazap1 - p antibody be raise against an oligopeptide contain the last 19 amino acid residue at the c - terminus .
both antibody recognize in vitro synthesize dazap1 in an immunoprecipitation assay ( data not show ) .
western blotting of mouse tissue extract detect a 45 kd protein that be present most abundantly in the testis , and to a less degree in spleen , liver , lung and brain ( figure 4 ) .
the protein be also present in the ovary .
the expression of dazap1 during germ cell development parallel that of dazl ( figure 5 ) .
it be present at a low level in the testis of 6 day old mouse which contain only primitive type a spermatogonia .
the expression of dazap1 increase afterward , a the testis contain increase number of proliferate and meiotic germ cell .
figure 4
expression of the dazap1 protein in adult mouse tissue .
equal amount of total protein from various tissue extract be apply to a 10 % sd - polyacrylamide gel and western blot with the anti-dazap1 - p antibody .
figure 5
western blot analysis of the expression of dazap1 and dazl in mouse testis during postnatal development .
subcellular localization of dazap1
our previous fractionation of mouse testis extract show that most dazl be present in the post mitochondrial fraction , and some of them be associate with polyribosomes [ 12 ] .
similar analysis show that a majority of dazap1 in adult mouse testis be also present in the cytoplasmic fraction ( data not show ) .
however , sucrose gradient analysis of the post - mitochondrion fraction show that , unlike dazl , dazap1 do not co-sediment with polyribosomes ( figure 6 ) .
figure 6
sucrose gradient analysis show that dazap1 be not associate with polyribosomes .
the post-mitochondrial supernatant of mouse testis extract be analyze on a 15 – 45 % sucrose gradient .
sedimentation be from left to right .
the presence of dazap1 and dazl in each fraction be analyze by western blotting .
discussion
rna - bind protein have be find to participate in many cellular function , include rna transcription , pre-mrna processing , mrna transport , localization , translation and stability [ 20 ] .
a role for the daz family in the regulation of mrna translation be support by line of circumstantial evidence , include the association of dazl with polyribosomes [ 12 ] .
the absence of dazap1 from polyribosomes indicate that it be not directly involved in protein synthesis .
this finding be different from two rna - bind protein , fxr1p and fxr2p , that be identify through their interaction with another polysomal - associate rna - bind protein , the fragile x mental retardation protein [ 21 ] .
both fxr1p and fxr2p be associate with the polyribosomes [ 22 ] .
the significance of the interaction between dazap1 and dazl / daz remain to be define .
these protein may act together to facilitate the expression of a set of gene in germ cell .
for example , dazap1 could be involve in the transport of the mrna of the target gene of dazl .
alternatively , dazl and dazap1 may act antagonistically to regulate the timing and the level of expression .
such an antagonistic interaction between two interact rna - bind protein be exemplify by the neuron - specific nuclear rna - bind protein , nova - 1 .
nova - 1 regulate the alternative splicing of the pre-mrnas encode neuronal inhibitory glycine receptor α2 ( glyr α2 ) [ 23 ] .
the ability of nova - 1 to activate exon selection in neuron be antagonize by a second rna - bind protein , brptb ( brain - enrich polypyrimidine tract - bind protein ) , which interact with nova - 1 and inhibit it function [ 24 ] .
dazap1 could function in a similar manner by bind to dazl and inhibit it function .
compare the phenotype of dazl1 and dazap1 single and double knock - out mouse may provide some clue to the significance of their interaction .
dazl1 knock - out mouse have already be generate and study [ 6 ] .
the spermatogenic defect in the male become apparent only after day 7 post partum when the germ cell be commit to meiosis ( h. cooke , personal communication ) .
the genomic structure of dazap1 , delineate here , should facilitate the generating of dazap1 null mutation .
dazap1 be show to bind rna homopolymers in vitro , with a preference for poly u and poly g .
it natural substrate have not be identify .
recently , the xenopus orthologue of dazap1 , prrp , be identify and characterize [ 16 ] .
prrp bind to a 340 nt sequence in the 3 ' utr of xenopus vg1 mrna .
this vg1 localization element ( vle ) be sufficient for the migration and clustering of vg1 mrna to the vegetal cortex of mature oocyte .
prrp also interact through it proline - rich domain with two microfilament - associate protein profilin and mena , which may facilitate the anchoring of vg1 mrna to the vegetal cortex .
the vg1 rna encode a member of the transform growth factor - β family that be require for generate dorsal mesoderm at the blastula stage of xenopus embryogenesis [ 25 ] .
sequence conservation between the rbds of dazap1 and prrp suggest that these protein may bind to similar rna sequence .
however , a blast search of the genbank for the 340 nt vle sequence fail to identify any mammalian sequence with significant homology .
further mapping of the rna sequence within vle that bind prrp , and possibly dazap1 , may help to identify the natural substrate of dazap1 .
conclusion
dazap1 be an evolutionarily conserve rna - bind protein .
it be present at variable level in many tissue .
it predominant expression in testis suggest a role in spermatogenesis .
in mouse testis , dazap1 be find both in the nucleus and in the cytoplasm .
it absence from polyribosomes indicate that it be not directly involved in mrna translation .
material and method
isolation of mouse dazap1 cdna clone
dazap1 cdna clone be isolate from a mouse testis cdna library ( # 937308 , stratagene , la jolla , ca ) use a human dazap1 cdna a a probe .
the 5 ' end of the cdna be isolate by 5 ' race [ 15 ] , use prdap11 ( ttgcgggccatatccttg , # 749–732 ) a the primer for cdna synthesis from mouse testis rna , and prdap37 ( ttgttgccacgtgggcg , # 734–718 ) and an adaptor primer a the primer for pcr amplification .
the pcr product be clone into a ta cloning vector pcr2.1 - topo ( invitrogen , carlsbad ca ) .
dazap1 clone be identify by colony hybridization and sequence .
the 5 ' race clone with the long 5 ' utr region and the cdna clone p21 be ligate together through a unique pmli site at # 722 to generate a cdna clone ( dazap1 - c ) with a near full - length insert .
chromosomal mapping of dazap1
dazap1 genomic clone be isolate from a mouse 129sv genomic library ( # 946305 , stragagene ) , and sequence flank each exon be determine .
pcr primer ( prdap25 : cacctccaggatgtgttagc and prdazp26 : gtcaccaagggtgtctgaag ) be design from intronic sequence flank dazap1 exon 8 .
these primer amplify a 271 bp fragment from mouse but not hamster genomic dna .
dna sample of a panel of 100 radiation hybrid contain mouse chromosome fragment in a hamster background be purchase from research genetics ( huntsville , al ) .
the presence of mouse dazap1 in the radiation hybrid be determine by pcr and the result be send to the mit server for computerized physical mapping of the gene .
expression of dazap1 transcript
northern hybridization be carry out accord to standard procedure [ 26 ] use a mouse multiple tissue northern blot # 7762–1 from clontech ( palo alto , ca ) .
the blot be hybridize sequentially with dazap1 and β - actin cdna probe , with stripping of the bind probe in between .
reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction ( rt - pcr ) be carry out a preciously describe use an annealing temperature of 54 °c [ 27 ] .
the primer be prdap35 : agctcagggagtacttcaaga and prdap24 : ggagcttgattcttgctgtcc for dazap1 which generate a product of 211 bp , and prdaz71 : atcgaactggtgtgtcgaagg and prdaz72 : ggaggctgcatgtaagtctca for dazl1 which generate a product of 245 bp .
both primer pair anneal across intron insertion site .
generation of anti-dazap1 antibody
antibody be generate against both a recombinant protein produce in e. coli and an oligopeptide synthesize in vitro .
the insert of a dazap1 cdna clone p21 , which encode the c - terminal portion of dazap1 ( start from aa # 197 ) , be clone in - frame into the ecori / xhoi site of an expression vector pet32b ( novagen , madison , wi ) .
sequence at the junction be verify by dna sequencing .
milligram of fusion protein between thioredoxin and dazap1 be prepare and purify on his - bind metal chelation resin ( novagen , madison , wi ) .
the protein be mix with freund 's adjuvant and inject into rabbit to generate the anti-dazapl - c antibody .
an oligopeptide contain the last 19 ammo acid residue of the mouse dazap1 be synthesize in vitro use the service of bethyl laboratory ( montgomery , tx ) .
the peptide be conjugate to klh a carrier and inject into a goat .
the anti-dazap1 - p antibody thus produce be purify on an affinity column contain the oligopeptide antigen .
western blotting
mouse tissue be homogenize in the ripa lysis buffer ( 150 mm nacl , 1.0 % np - 40 , 0.5 % doc , 0.1 % sd , 50 mm tris , ph 8.0 ) at a concentration of 0.2 g tissue per ml of buffer .
the homogenize sample be clear of debris by centrifugation at 10,000 × g for 10 minute .
protein concentration of the tissue extract be determine by the bradford method use the bio - rad protein assay system ( bio - rad , hercules , ca ) .
about 50 μg of tissue extract be separate on 10 % sd - polyacrylamide gel and blot with either the anti-dazap1 - c antibody ( at a 1 / 2,000 dilution ) or the anti-dazap1 - p antibody ( at a 1 / 5,000 dilution ) .
after incubation with horseradish peroxidase - conjugate secondary antibody , the binding of antibody be detect use the ecl western blotting system ( amersham pharmacia biotech , piscataway , nj ) .
fractionation of mouse testicular extract
adult mouse testis be homogenize in a buffer contain 20 mm tris , ph 7.5 , 100 mm kcl , 5 mm mgcl2 , 0.3 % np - 40 , 40 u / ml of rnasin ribonuclase inhibitor ( promega , madison , wi ) , and a mixture of 10 protease inhibitor provide in the protease inhibitor set ( roche molecular biochemicals , indianapolis , in ) .
homogenate be centrifuge at 1,000 × g for 10 minute to pellet cell debris and nucleus .
after an additional centrifugation at 10,000 × g for 10 minute to pellet the mitochondrion , aliquot of the supernatant be apply to 15 – 45 % sucrose gradient in 20 mm tris , 100 mm kcl and 5 mm mgcl2 and centrifuge in a beckman sw41 rotor at 39,000 rpm for 2 hour at 4 ° c .
fraction of 0.5 ml be collect from the bottom of the tube and analyze by western blotting .
acknowledgment
we thank gary kuo for his involvement in the construction of dazap1 expression vector , and ron swerdloff 's group for helpful discussion .
the work be support by grant from the national institute of health ( hd28009 and hd36347 ) .
y. vera be support by an nih grant ( gm56902 ) on initiative for minority student development .
structure - function evolution of the transform acidic coil coil gene reveal by analysis of phylogenetically diverse organism
abstract
background
examination of ancient gene family can provide an insight into how the evolution of gene structure can relate to function .
functional homologs of the evolutionarily conserve transform acidic coil coil ( tacc ) gene family be present in organism from yeast to man .
however , correlation between functional interaction and the evolution of these protein have yet to be determine .
result
we have perform an extensive database analysis to determine the genomic and cdna sequence of the taccs from phylogenetically diverse organism .
this analysis have determine the phylogenetic relationship of the tacc protein to other coil coil protein , the resolution of the placement of the rabbit tacc4 a the orthologue of human tacc3 , and rhamm a a distinct family of coil coil protein .
we have also extend the analysis of the taccs to the interaction database of c. elegans and d. melanogaster to identify potentially novel tacc interaction .
the validity of this modeling be confirm independently by the demonstration of direct binding of human tacc2 to the nuclear hormone receptor rxrβ .
conclusion
the data so far suggest that the ancestral tacc protein play a role in centrosomal / mitotic spindle dynamic .
tacc protein be then recruit to complex involve in protein translation , rna processing and transcription by interaction with specific bridging protein .
however , during evolution , the tacc protein have now acquire the ability to directly interact with component of these complex ( such a the lsm protein , nuclear hormone receptor , gas41 , and transcription factor ) .
this suggest that the function of the tacc protein may have evolve from perform assembly or coordination function in the centrosome to include a more intimate role in the functional evolution of chromatin remodeling , transcriptional and posttranscriptional complex in the cell .
background
the evolution of complex organism have be associate with the generation of gene family by the continual duplication of an initial relatively small set of ancestral gene .
through this process , follow by subsequent mutation , reduplication and exon shuffling between gene family , gene have evolve both discrete , and partially redundant function with their relate family member .
with the completion of the genome sequencing project of human , mouse , rat , fruit fly and nematode , we be now in a position to ask fundamental question in regard to how gene interact in the context of the whole organism .
thus , with the appropriate application of bioinformatics , it be now possible to trace the lineage of particular gene and gene family , with related gene family in other organism .
furthermore , with the grow amount of large - scale proteomic and genomic data become publicly available , this analysis can now be extend to reveal the complex interplay between evolution of gene structure and protein function .
the first transforming acidic coil coil gene , tacc1 , be identify during the development of an expression map of the proximal short arm of human chromosome 8 [ 1 ] .
two additional tacc family member be subsequently identify and map to paralogous chromosomal region on human chromosome 4p16 and 10q26 , physically close to member of the fgfr gene family [ 1 - 3 ] .
this mapping data , together with identification of a single tacc gene in the protostomes caenorhabitis elegans , and drosophila melanogaster [ 4 - 6 ] , lead to the speculation that the ancestral fgfr and tacc gene be locate physically close to each other .
thus , during the evolution of vertebrate , subsequent successive duplication of the ancestral gene cluster have give rise to three tacc family member locate close to fgfr gene in human .
in accordance with the propose quadruplication of the vertebrate genome during evolution , there be a fourth fgfr family member in vertebrate , raise the question of whether a fourth tacc gene be associate with fgfr4 in vertebrate genome .
to date , only three active tacc gene have be clone in human [ 1 - 3 ] , one in each of mouse [ 7 ] , xenopus laevis [ 8 ] , d. melanogaster [ 4 ] , and c. elegans [ 5 , 6 ] .
although two additional new candidate tacc family member , oryctolagus cuniculus tacc4 [ 9 ] and human rhamm [ 10 ] have be propose , their true identity and placement in the evolution of the tacc family be under debate .
thus , the identification and functional characterization of new member of the tacc family in other organism , alternatively splice isoforms of each tacc and comparison of the phylogenetic relationship of these gene relative to other member of the coil coil superfamily will resolve this issue and provide clue to the evolution of tacc function .
result and discussion
in silico identification of tacc family member from vertebrate and invertebrate lineage
sequence similarity search of the publicly available genome database with the blast and tblast program be perform to identify tacc and rhamm orthologues , and other member of the coil coil superfamily in a diverse set of specie ( fig. 1 ) .
this identify the complete sequence of the tacc gene in representative of five major phylogenetically distinct clade .
where possible , the construction of the tacc sequence from these organism be also confirm by the analysis of the cdna database .
several partial sequence in other vertebrate specie , the echinodermate strongylocentrotus purpuratus and the protostome insect anopheles gambiae be also identify , suggest an ancient conservation of the tacc gene in metazoan lineage .
however , due to the relative infancy of the cdna / genome project for these latter organism , complete characterization of these tacc gene could not be undertake .
no conclusion could be make about the existence of tacc - like sequence in non-bilaterian metazoan , such a cnidaria or porifera , due to the paucity of sequence information for these organism , and additional definitive sequence with a define tacc domain could not be find in other non-metazoan organism .
figure 1
phylogenetic analysis of the tacc family member compare to other coil coil protein .
the phylogenetic tree be construct a describe in the method section .
the tacc family define a separate subfamily of coil coil contain protein , distinct from other coil coil family such a the keratin , rhamm and tropomyosins .
note that the rhamm protein form a separate branch more closely related to the tropomyosins and kinesin like protein ( klp ) , than the tacc protein .
at the base of the chordate branch of life , a single tacc gene be identify in the genome of the urochordate ciona intestinalis [ 11 ] , and a partial tacc sequence from an analysis of the halocynthia rortezi est database [ 12 ] .
this confirm the original assumption that a single tacc gene be present in the chordate ancestor .
the next major event in the evolution of the chordate genome have be suggest to have occur 687 ± 155.7 million year ago ( mya ) , with the first duplication of the chordate genome , and a second duplication occur shortly thereafter .
thus , if the tacc gene be duplicate at both event , we would expect to identify four tacc gene in the most " primitive " compact vertebrate genome sequence to date , the pufferfish takifugu rubripes , with three gene correspond to the human tacc1 - 3 , and , in keep with the propose model for genomic duplication of the chromosomal locus for the tacc gene ( discuss below ) , a possible fourth gene derive from the tacc3 ancestor .
indeed , four tacc gene be identify in t. rubripes .
of these , two gene correspond to the t. rubripes orthologues of human tacc2 and tacc3 .
however , the other two gene , trtacc1a and trtacc1b be clearly most related to tacc1 ( fig. 1 ) .
although trtacc1a be highly homologous to trtacc1b , the latter encode a significantly small predict protein .
the trtacc1b gene be encode by 15 exon over approximately 7 kb of the takifugu scaffold 191 ( see below ) .
a search of this region use the trtacc1a sequence and gene prediction software have so far fail to identify additional exon of trtacc1b .
however , give the intron / exon structure of this apparently complete gene , it appear likely that trtacc1b be active in the pufferfish , and presumably fulfil either a temporal - spatial specific function within the organism , or a distinct function from the large trtacc1a product within the cell .
thus , base upon the surround chromosomal locus ( see below ) , the trtacc1a and trtacc1b gene appear to have arise from the duplication of the chromosomal segment contain the teleost tacc1 ancestor , during the additional partial genomic duplication that occur in the teleost lineage .
therefore , this analysis of t. rubripes do not support the hypothesis that the region surround the tacc3 ancestor be include in the second round of vertebrate genomic duplication .
examination of high vertebrate lead to the identification of splice variant of tacc1 and tacc2 in mu musculus , and the assembly of the previously unidentified orthologues of tacc1 - 3 from rattus norvegus .
in addition , the tacc1x sequence be find on mouse chromosome x .
this gene be clearly relate to the mouse tacc1 , however , further examination reveal a mouse b1 repeat distribute over the length of the propose intron .
in addition , no expression of tacc1x be detect in mouse rna by rt - pcr analysis ( data not show ) , suggest that this sequence be a process pseudogene .
similarly , tacc1 pseudogenes also exist spread over 22 kb of the centromeric region of human chromosome 10 and , in 8q21 , a short region 86 % identical to the final 359 bp of the tacc1 3 ' untranslated region .
no pseudogenes correspond to tacc2 or tacc3 be identify in any mammalian specie .
characterization of vertebrate tacc3 orthologues
base upon current functional analysis , the characterization of tacc3 orthologues be likely to be pivotal to understand the sequence and functional evolution of the tacc gene family .
a indicate below , the chromosomal region contain the tacc gene precursor be duplicate twice during vertebrate evolution .
although the analysis of t. rubripes , rodent and human so far suggest that the vertebrate tacc3 precursor be not include in the second round of genomic duplication , it could not be exclude that a tacc4 gene may have be lose during the evolution of these lineage .
the cloning of a new member of the tacc family in oryctolagus cuniculus have add to this controversy [ 9 ] .
designate tacc4 , the 1.5 kb cdna be highly relate , but propose to be distinct from tacc3 .
however , northern blot data suggest that this gene produce a single 2.3 kb transcript [ 9 ] , indicate that the clone cdna be incomplete .
the degree of similarity to the publish sequence of human and mouse tacc3 suggest to u that tacc4 actually represent a partial rabbit tacc3 cdna .
to test this hypothesis , we set out to clone the complete rabbit tacc3 sequence , base upon the known feature of human and mouse tacc3 .
we have previously note that the n - terminal and c - terminal region of the human and mouse tacc3 protein be highly conserve ( [ 2 ] , see below ) .
therefore , base upon the sequence identity between these gene , we design a consensus oligonucleotide primer , t3con2 , that would be suitable for the identification of the region contain the initiator methionine of the tacc3 cdna from primate and rodent .
use this primer , in combination with the tacc4 - specific race primer ( race2 ) , initially use by steadman et al [ 9 ] , we isolate a 1.5 kb pcr product from rabbit brain cdna by rt - pcr .
in combination with 3 ' race , this generate a consensus cdna of 2283 bp which correspond to the transcript size of 2.3 kb detect by the " tacc4 " sequence report in figure 4 of steadman et al [ 9 ] .
thus , while it remain possible that the " tacc4 " sequence be an alternative splice product , or be the product of reduplication of the tacc3 gene ( event that would be specific to the rabbit ) , the only transcript detect in rabbit rna correspond to the predict transcript size of the tacc3 sequence that we have identify here .
furthermore , the string of nucleotide find at the 5 ' end of the " tacc4 " sequence be also find at the 5 ' end of a number of cdna sequence ( e.g. u82468 , nm_023500 ) , that be isolate by 5 ' race , suggest that they may correspond to an artefact of the 5 ' race methodology use in their construction .
the rabbit " tacc4 " and the rabbit tacc3 sequence that we have isolate be also find on the same branch of the tacc phylogenetic tree with the other tacc3 orthologues , include maskin ( xenopus laevis ) , and the newly identify tacc3 sequence in rattus norvegus , gallus gallus , silurana tropicalis , danio rerio and t. rubripes , report in this manuscript ( fig. 1 ) .
thus , it be not in a separate branch that may be expect if the sequence be a distinct tacc family member .
placement of the rhamm gene in the phylogeny of the coil coil gene family
human rhamm have also be propose to be the miss fourth member of the tacc family [ 10 ] .
evidence use in support of this claim include it chromosomal location on 5q32 in human ( discuss below ) , it sequence similarity in it coil coil domain to the tacc domain and the subcellular localization of the rhamm protein in the centrosome .
however , if rhamm be a bona fide tacc family member , then we would predict it evolution would be similar to those of other tacc family member , and fit with the propose evolution of the vertebrate genome .
thus , we set out to identify rhamm orthologues and relate gene in metazoan , so that a more complete phylogeny of the coil coil super family could be generate .
we identify a single rhamm gene in all deuterostomes for which cdna and / or genomic sequence be available , include c. intestinalis .
no rhamm gene be identify in insect or nematode .
this indicate that the rhamm / tacc gene diverge after the protostome / deuterostome split 833 – 933 mya , but prior to the echinodermata / urochordate divergence ( > 750 mya ) .
significantly , sequence and phylogenetic analysis of coil coil protein ( fig. 1 ) clearly show that rhamm do not contain a tacc domain and instead form a distinct family of protein in the coil coil superfamily , and be not a direct descendant of the ancestral tacc gene .
evolution of the chromosomal segment contain the tacc gene
the phylogenetic tree of the fgfr gene closely resemble that of the vertebrate tacc1 - 3 gene .
recently , detailed analysis of the chromosomal region contain the fgfr gene family in human , mouse and the arthopod d. melanogaster have reveal the conservation of paralogous chromosomal segment between these organism ( fig. 2 , [ 13 ] , table 1 [ see additional file 1 ] ) .
this have provide further support that an ancient chromosomal segment be duplicate twice during vertebrate evolution , with the first duplication that give rise to the human chromosome 4p16 / 5q32 - ter and human chromosome 8p / 10q23 - ter ancestor occur in the early stage after the invertebrate divergence .
this suggest that the ancestral fgfr - tacc gene pair most probably arise prior to the initial duplication and subsequent divergence of these paralogous chromosomal segment , estimate to have occur 687 ± 155.7 mya .
this have raise the suggestion that a fourth tacc gene in vertebrate would reside in the same chromosomal region a fgfr4 .
indeed this hypothesis have be use in support for the rhamm gene a a member of the tacc family [ 10 ] .
human rhamm map to chromosome 5q32 in a region bound by gpx3 and nkx2e .
these locus separate two cluster of gene on human chromosome 5 that be paralogous with 4p16 .
interestingly , these three cluster be locate on different chromosome in mouse and rat ( fig. 2 ) , far suggest that this cluster of gene be transpose into this region after the primate / rodent divergence .
figure 2
linear organization of gene cluster center upon the chromosomal locus of the fgfr gene in human .
paralogous gene present in at least two of the four locus be show , with the exception of the region between gpx3 and nkx2e on chromosome 5 , which appear to represent a series of intervene gene insert after duplication of the 4p16 / 5q32 - 35 cluster , and gene mention in fig. 3 .
correspond syntenic mouse chromosomal region ( mm * ) be indicate .
takifugu rubripes scaffold be show ( tr * ) that contain more than one homologous gene from these cluster .
further detail on the location of paralogous gene can be find in [ see additional file 1 ] .
because the conservation of gene order can also provide clue to the evolution of gene regulation , we next attempt to trace the evolution of these paralogous segment by examine the genome of the tunicate c. intestinalis [ 11 ] and the most " primitive " compact vertebrate genome sequence to date , t. rubripes [ 14 ] .
although not fully assemble , examination of the genome of t. rubripes confirm the presence of chromosomal segment paralogous to those find in high vertebrate ( fig. 2 ) .
for instance , the orthologues of gprk2l and rgs12 be find on t. rubripes scaffold 290 ( emb|caab01000290.1 ) , and within 300 kb of each other in human 4p16 .
the t. rubripes orthologues of fgfr3 , letm1 and whsc1 be locate on the same 166 kb genomic scaffold 251 ( emb|caab01000166.1 ) .
significantly , the three human orthologues of these gene be also locate within 300 kb of each other on 4p16 .
furthermore , tacc3 and fgfrl map to the overlap scaffold 1184 / 4669 ( emb|caab01004668 ) .
similarly , element of these gene cluster , extend from hmp19 to gprk6 in human chromosome 5q34 - ter be also find in the pufferfish , with the t. rubripes orthologues of nsd1 , fgfr4 and a rab - like gene mapping on scaffold 407 ( emb|caab01000407 ) .
however , there be no evidence for a gene correspond to a tacc4 gene in any of these cluster .
a note above , phylogenetic analysis of the tacc sequence indicate that there be two tacc1 relate gene in the pufferfish .
trtacc1b be locate on the 180 kb scaffold 191 ( emb|caab01000191.1 ) , which also contain the orthologues of several gene locate in human chromosome 8p21 - 11 .
thus , this scaffold represent the more " develop " tacc1 chromosomal segment that be evident in high vertebrate .
on the other hand , the trtacc1a gene be locate in the 396 kb scaffold 12 ( emb|caab010012.1 ) .
this scaffold also contain the t. rubripes orthologues of msx1 , stx18 , d4s234e and the predict gene loc118711 , in addition to sequence with homology to loxl , evc , loc159291 , and the ldb family .
thus , scaffold 12 contain gene find in the region of human chromosome 4 and 10 that also contain the locus for tacc3 and tacc2 , respectively , and may therefore more closely resemble the genomic organization result from the initial duplication of the ancestral paralogous chromosomal segment .
conserve paralogous cluster may result from the initial clustering of the gene in a relatively small ancestral genomic contig .
some evidence for the existence of " protoclusters " that could correspond to the paralogous chromosomal segment note in high vertebrate be present in the genome of the urochordate c. intestinalis [ 11 ] .
for instance , the orthologues of fgfr , and whsc1 , carboxypeptidase z and flj25359 cluster within an 85 kb region of the c. intestinalis genome and the human orthologues be still maintain in paralogous segment of 4p16 , 8p and 10q ( fig. 3 , [ see additional file 1 ] ) .
however , it should be note that no cluster of gene from the vertebrate paralogous segment be locate close to the tacc or rhamm gene of c. intestinalis , indicate that the formation of the much large paralogous segment encompass the fgfr - tacc gene form later in evolutionary time , or conversely have be subject to extensive rearrangement in tunicate .
in combination with the examination of the t. rubripes genome , this also provide additional evidence that either the second round of duplication of the chromosomal segment that contain the fgfr3 / 4 ancestor do not include a tacc gene , or that such a gene be lose very early in vertebrate evolution , prior to the divergence of the gnanthostome lineage .
however , the final resolution of the initial evolution of these paralogous segment will await the sequencing of the amphioxus and lamprey genome , which only have one fgfr gene , and therefore should only contain one copy of the other correspond gene in this conserve segment .
figure 3
formation of protoclusters in takifugu rubripes and ciona intestinalis :
( a ) : structure of the genomic scaffold contain the takifugu rubripes trtacc1a and trtacc1b gene .
scaffold 12 , the site for the trtacc1a gene contain gene find with either homologues or orthologues on the distal long arm of human chromosome 10 and 4p16 .
this scaffold , therefore , have some of the characteristic of the predict immediate ancestor of the tacc1 / tacc2 chromosomal segment .
trtacc1b be find on scaffold 191 , which contain orthologues of gene find in the proximal short arm of human chromosome 8 .
( b ) : ciona intestinalis cluster contain gene find in paralogous segment on human 8 , 4p16 , 10q and 5q .
figure 4
genomic structure of the tacc gene .
conserve region know to bind protein factor in all human tacc protein be show .
the sdp repeat of human tacc1 - 3 be know to bind gas41 ( [ 3 , 15 ] and data not show ) .
the tacc domain bind ch - tog and member of the aurora kinase in all specie examine to date .
this motif be characteristically encode by the 3 ' exon of the tacc gene .
the size of the large isoform for each gene be show .
comparative genomic structure of the tacc family
the genomic dna sequence correspond to the orthologous tacc gene of human , mouse , rat , pufferfish , c. intestinalis , d. melanogaster and c. elegans be extract and analyze by genescan and blast to determine the genomic structure of each tacc gene .
in some case , for rat and pufferfish , exon be add or modify base on the best similarity of translate peptide to the correspond mouse and human protein .
for region with low sequence similarity in t. rubripes , genomic sequence from the fresh water pufferfish , tetraodon nigroviridis be use a additional mean to verify the predict exon .
the general structure of the tacc gene and protein be depict in fig. 4 .
the main conserve feature of the tacc family , the tacc domain , be locate at the carboxy terminus of the protein .
in the case of the c. elegans tac protein , this structure comprise the majority of the protein and be encode by two of the three exon of the gene .
in the high organism , d. melanogaster , and the deuterostomes c. intestinalis to human , this feature be also encode by the final exon of the gene ( five in d. melanogaster , seven in the deuterostome gene ) .
outside of the tacc domain , however , tacc family member show relatively little homology .
it be interesting that each tacc gene contain one large exon , which show considerable variability between tacc orthologues , and constitute the main difference between the tacc3 gene in the vertebrate ( see below ) .
in deuterostomes , this exon contain the sdp repeat ( or in the case of the murine tacc3 's , a rodent - specific 24 amino acid repeat ) , which be responsible for the binding of the swi / snf chromatin remodeling complex component gas41 [ 15 , 16 ] .
of the vertebrate tacc protein , the tacc3 orthologues show the great variability in size and sequence , range in size from 599 amino acid for the rat tacc3 protein , to 942 amino acid in the danio rerio protein .
the reason for these difference be apparent from the genomic structure of the tacc3 orthologues .
tacc3 can be divide into three section : a conserve n - terminal region ( cntr ) of 108 amino acid , encode by exon 2 and 3 in each vertebrate tacc3 gene , the conserve tacc domain distribute over the final seven exon , and a highly variable central region .
the lack of conservation in both size and sequence of the central portion of the tacc3 protein of human and mouse have be previously note , and account for the major difference between these two orthologues [ 2 ] .
the majority of this central portion , which contain the sdp repeat motif , be encode by one exon in human and the pufferfish ( emb|caab01001184 ) .
in rodent , however , this region be almost entirely compose of seven 24 amino acid repeat , which be locate in a single exon of the mouse and rat tacc3 gene .
it have be previously report that there be four mouse tacc3 splice variant that differ in the number of these repeat [ 2 , 7 , 17 ] .
a these repeat be present in a single exon , it appear likely that these different sequence may be the result of the dna polymerase use in the cdna synthesis and / or pcr reaction stutter through the repeat motif .
the correct sequence , report by sadek et al [ 7 ] , be the one use throughout the entirety of this manuscript .
these repeat be not evident in the rabbit protein , or any other tacc protein , and may indicate that the rodent tacc3 have evolve distinct function , a have already be note for the amphibian xenopus tacc3 , maskin [ 8 ] .
alternative splicing in vertebrate tacc gene
whereas exon shuffling can drive the functional diversification of gene family over evolutionary time , the temporal and / or tissue specific alternative splicing of a gene can give rise to functional diversification of a single gene during the development of an organism .
although no alternative splicing of tacc3 have be clearly document , both temporal and tissue specific splicing be observe in the tacc1 and tacc2 gene .
in the case of tacc2 , an additional large ( 5 kb ) exon account for the main difference between the major splice variant of the vertebrate tacc2 gene [ 3 ] .
the alternative splicing of this exon suggest a major functional difference between the two tacc2 isoforms , tacc2s and tacc2l [ 3 ] , as well a a significant difference between tacc2 and it close tacc family relative , tacc1 .
however , the function of this region of the tacc2l isoform be current unknown .
alternative splicing , together with differential promoter usage have already be note for the human tacc1 gene [ 18 , 19 ] .
in addition , a show in fig. 5 , we have identify additional tacc1 isoforms that result from alternative splicing of exon 1b - 4a .
the function of these different isoforms be unknown , however the region delete from the short variant can include the binding site for lsm7 [ 20 ] ( variant c , d , f - i ) , and / or the nuclear localization signal and binding site for gas41 [ 15 ] and pctaire2bp [ 20 ] ( isoforms b - d , s ) .
one of these isoforms , tacc1s be localize exclusively to the cytoplasm [ 19 ] , suggest that the short isoforms would not be able to interact with element of the chomatin remodeling and / or rna processing machinery in the nucleus .
thus , change in the complement of tacc1 isoforms in the cell may result in alteration in cellular rna metabolism at multiple level , and may account for the observation that tacc1d and tacc1f isoforms be associate with tumorigenic change in gastric mucosa [ 18 ] .
figure 5
alternative splicing of the human tacc1 gene .
( a ) : seven splice variant have be identify for human tacc1 ( a - f and s ) .
we have also identify additional splice variant ( g - i ) from database analysis and rt - pcr analysis of human brain rna .
( b ) : alternative splicing of tacc1 in the human brain .
rt - pcr analysis confirm splicing of the untranslated exon 1a to exon 1 , with retention of the originally define start methionine ( gb : np_006274 ) ( variant a * , lane 1 and 3 ) .
exon 1a also splice to exon 2 , remove the l - sm7 binding motif ( variant i , lane 3 , 12 and 13 ) .
variant that functionally delete exon 2 and / or 3 , such a variant c ( lane 15 ) also remove the predict nuclear localization signal , and the binding domain for gas41 and pctaire2bp .
these variant would retain the tacc domain , and therefore the potential to bind to ch - tog and aurora a kinase in the centrosome .
lane 1 : ef / x1r , lane 2 : ef / bx647r , lane 3 : ef / 6spr , lane 4 : ef / 1dr , lane 5 , ef / 128r , lane 6 x3f / x1r , lane 7 : x3f / bx647r , lane 8 : x3f / 6spr , lane 9 : x3f / 1dr , lane 10 , x3f / 128r , lane 11 : 1df / x1r , lane 12 : 1df / bx647r , lane 13 : 1df / 6spr , lane 14 : 1df / 1dr , lane 15 : 1df / 128r , lane 16 : biorad 1 kb+ size ladder .
in silico modeling of the evolution of tacc protein function
the protein and genomic structure of the present day tacc family member suggest that the function of the ancestral tacc protein be mediate solely through the interaction of the conserve tacc domain .
use an in silico protein - protein interaction model base upon known mitotic spindle and centrosomal component , we have previously predict a number of additional interaction that could be conserve between a functional tacc homologue in yeast , spc - 72 , and one or more human tacc protein [ 21 ] .
thus , it be know that all the tacc protein examine to date interact , via the tacc domain , with the microtubule / centrosomal protein of the stu2 / msps / ch - tog family [ 5 , 6 , 22 - 24 ] , and with the aurora kinase [ 20 , 21 , 25 ] .
these interaction be require for the accumulation of the d - tacc , spc72 , cetac1 and tacc3 protein to the centrosome [ 5 , 6 , 22 - 24 ] .
hence , this functional interaction with the centrosome and mitotic spindle be likely to represent the ancient , conserve function of the tacc family .
however , it be apparent that the human tacc protein also differ in their ability to interact with the aurora kinase .
for instance , tacc1 and tacc3 interact with aurora a kinase , whereas tacc2 interact with aurora c kinase [ 21 ] , suggest a degree of functional specialization in the derivative of the ancestral chordate tacc , after the radiation of the vertebrate tacc gene .
the localization of the vertebrate tacc protein in the interphase nucleus [ 15 , 26 , 27 ] suggest that they have additional function outside their ancient role in the centrosome and microtubule dynamic .
thus , it seem likely that tacc family member in protostomes and deuterostomes have integrate new unique function a the evolve tacc gene acquire additional exon .
the result of the pilot large - scale proteomic analysis in c. elegans and d. melanogaster provide further suggestive evidence to this functional evolution .
yeast two hybrid analysis indicate that cetac directly bind to c. elegans lin15a , lin36 and lin37 [ 28 ] .
these protein bridge cetac to other element of the cytoskeleton and microtubule network , as well a to component of the ribosome , the histone deacetylase chromatin remodel machinery such a egr - 1 and lin - 53 ( the c. elegans homologues of the human mta - 1 and rbap48 ) , and to transcription factor such a the pal1 homeobox and the nuclear hormone receptor nhr - 86 [ 28 ] ( fig. 6a ) .
similarly , large scale proteomics [ 29 ] have show that drosophila tacc interact with two protein , the rna binding protein tbph and cg14540 ( fig. 6b ) , and thus indirectly with the drosophila swi / snf chromatin remodeling complex and dna damage repair machinery .
significantly , the cetac protein have also recently be implicate in dna repair through it direct interaction with the c. elegans bard1 orthologue [ 30 ] .
it should be note that a number of interaction with the tacc protein from these organism have probably be miss by these large scale method , include the well document direct interaction with the aurora kinase and the stu2 / msps / ch - tog family .
figure 6
functional evolution of the tacc protein model in c. elegans and d. melanogaster .
( a ) . c. elegans interaction map show empirically define interaction of cetac , and extrapolate interaction define by [ 28 ] .
( b ) : use the bind database [ 29 ] , dtacc directly bind to tbph and cg14540 , and thus indirectly to chromatin remodeling complex ( swi / snf and histone acetyltransferases ) , dna damage repair machinery ( via rad23 ) , and rna splicing , transport and translational machinery .
( c ) : predict interaction map for vertebrate taccs , base upon cetac , suggest an indirect interaction with the nuclear hormone receptor rxrβ .
it be also of interest that this predict a functional interaction with the ldb family , member of which be also find in tacc contain paralogous segment note in fig 2 , 3 and additional file 1 .
( d ) : predict tacc interaction map base upon dtacc .
( e ) : vertebrate tacc interaction identify to date .
? denote uncertainty over the identity of a functional vertebrate homologue .
in c , d and e , ' * ' denote one or more member of the tacc or aurora kinase family .
because of the evolutionary conservation of the tacc domain , we would predict that some of the functional interaction see in c. elegans and d. melanogaster would be observe in high animal .
phylogenetic profiling from these interaction map suggest two similar set of predict interaction for vertebrate taccs ( fig. 6c and 6d ) .
strikingly , however , the c. elegans specific protein lin15a , lin36 and lin37 do not have readily discernible homologues in vertebrate or drosophila , although the presence of a zinc finger domain in lin36 may suggest that this protein be involve directly in transcription or perform an adaptor role similar to lim contain protein .
for the dtacc interact protein , tbph correspond to tdp43 , a protein implicate in transcriptional regulation and splicing [ 31 , 32 ] .
however , the assignment of the human homologue of cg14540 be less clear , with the close match in the human database correspond to glutamine rich transcription factor such a creb and the g - box binding factor .
comparison of model with experimentally define interaction of the vertebrate tacc protein
the interaction data for the vertebrate taccs be relatively limit ; however , interaction network be now begin to emerge .
the result of our functional analysis , as well a other publish data clearly indicate that the vertebrate taccs interact with protein that can be divide into two broad category :
1 ) protein with role in centrosome / mitotic spindle dynamic , and 2 ) protein involve in gene regulation , either at the level of transcription , or subsequent rna processing and translation [ 3 , 5 - 7 , 15 , 19 - 21 , 24 , 25 , 33 , 34 ] .
many of these protein do not appear to interact directly with the protostome taccs , but would be expect to be in the same protein complex ( fig. 6c , 6d ) .
significant analysis of the association of the taccs with the centrosome and the dynamic of mitotic spindle assembly from yeast to human have be publish [ 5 , 6 , 21 - 24 ] .
from this analysis , it seem likely that the vertebrate tacc3 protein have retain this direct ancestral function , base upon it location in these structure during mitosis [ 27 ] , it strong interaction with aurora kinase a , and the observation that it be the only human tacc protein phosphorylated by this enzyme [ 21 ] .
however , the variability of the central domain of the vertebrate orthologues , suggest that tacc3 may also have acquire additional , and in some instance , specie - specific function .
for instance , in x. laevis , the maskin protein have acquire a binding site for the eif4e protein , and thus a function in the coordinate control of polyadenylation and translation in the xenopus oocyte [ 8 , 35 ] .
a recent study have suggest that this function may be unique to maskin : although it be unclear whether the other vertebrate tacc3 protein interact with the eif4e / cpeb complex , the human tacc1a isoform be unable to interact with the eif4e / cpeb complex .
instead , some tacc1 isoforms have evolve a related , but distinct function by directly interact with element of the rna splicing and transport machinery [ 19 ] .
to far characterize the evolve function of the tacc protein , we have use an unbiased yeast two hybrid screening method to identify protein that bind to the human tacc protein [ 3 , 34 ] .
in a screen of a matchmaker fetal brain library ( bd bioscience clontech ) , in addition to isolate the histone acetyltransferase hgcn5l2 [ 34 ] , we also identify the β3 isoform of retinoid - x receptor β a a protein that interact with the tacc domain of tacc2 .
a show in fig. 7 , this interaction be confirm in vitro by gst - pull down analysis .
significantly , rxrβ be a close family relative of the nuclear hormone receptor , nhr - 86 , from c. elegans , which interact with the cetac binding protein lin36 ( fig. 6a ) .
this suggest that while protostome taccs may require additional protein factor to interact with such component , the taccs in high organism may have evolve the ability to directly interact with some of the protein in the predict interaction map ( fig. 6e ) .
indeed , this appear to be directly link to the acquisition of new domain and duplication of the chordate tacc precursor .
in fact , the first identify function of a vertebrate tacc protein be a a transcriptional coactivator act through a direct interaction with the arnt transcription factor [ 7 ] .
it be also intriguing that the deuterostome specific sdp repeat interact with gas41 , a component / accessory factor of the human swi / snf chromatin remodeling complex [ 3 , 15 ] .
although there be a d. melanogaster homologue of gas41 , dmgas41 , the large scale proteomic interaction database do not indicate a direct interaction of dmgas41 with dtacc .
this may be due to the lack of the sdp repeat region in the drosophila tacc protein .
this far suggest that the vertebrate taccs have gain the specific ability to direct interact with transcriptional regulatory complex , and that bridge protein ( s ) be no longer require .
thus , where the cetac protein be only compose of the tacc domain , the significantly large tacc family member in high protostomes and deuterostomes may have integrate one or more function of the bridge protein ( in this case lin15a , lin36 or lin37 ) .
this may also explain the absence of lin15a , lin36 and lin37 homologues in high organism , a they be no longer under selective evolutionary pressure to remain within the complex , and thus lose in the evolve genome .
figure 7
in vitro interaction of rxrβ3 and tacc2s .
top panel : autoradiograph of 12 % sd polyacrylamide gel with in vitro translate rxrβ3 construct pull down with gst - tacc2 ( lane 1 ) or gst ( lane 2 ) ; lane 3 : 5 % input of in vitro translate rxr - β protein .
bottom two panel represent coomassie blue stain gel of pull down experiment show loading of gst - tacc2 and gst .
conclusion
propose functional evolution of the tacc family
examination of the evolution of ancient gene family provide an insight into how gene structure relate to function .
we have present above , a detailed examination of one such gene family .
the data so far suggest that the functional tacc homologue in yeast ( spc72 ) have a specific role in centrosomal / mitotic spindle dynamic [ 21 , 22 ] .
this ancient tacc function be conserve throughout evolution in both protostomes and deuterostomes .
in addition , the tacc protein of low organism appear to interact with bridging protein that be component of several different protein complex involve in dna damage repair , protein translation , rna processing and transcription .
however , over the process of evolutionary time , with the acquisition of new domain and duplication of the chordate tacc precursor , the chordate tacc protein have acquire the ability to directly interact with some of the other component of these complex ( such a the lsm protein , nuclear hormone receptor , gas41 , accessory protein and transcription factor ) , and thus evolve additional function within these complex .
indeed , the first assign function of a vertebrate tacc protein , mouse tacc3 , be a a transcriptional coactivator of the arnt mediate transcriptional response to hypoxia and polyaromatic hydrocarbon [ 7 ] .
mouse tacc3 have also be report to interact with the transcription factor stat5 [ 33 ] .
recently , we have demonstrate that tacc2 and tacc3 can bind to nuclear histone acetyltransferases [ 34 ] , far confirm a more direct role for the tacc protein in transcriptional and chromatin remodeling event .
interestingly although all human tacc protein can directly interact with the histone acetyltransferase pcaf in vitro , the tacc1 isoforms express in human breast cancer cell do not interact with this histone acetylase [ 34 ] .
this may be attributable to the propose function of the exon 1 contain tacc1 variant in rna processing , via the interaction with lsm - 7 and smg [ 19 ] .
thus , alternative splicing of the tacc1 gene add further diversity to tacc1 function , a the deletion of specific exon and their associate binding domain will change the potential protein complex with which they can associate , either directly , or by redirect the splice variant to different subcellular compartment .
with the duplication of the tacc1 / tacc2 ancestor , it be apparent that an even great functional diversity may have be introduce into the tacc family .
the tacc2 protein retain the ability of tacc3 to interact with gas41 , ini1 , histone acetyltransferases and transcription factor ( in this case , rxrβ ) ( fig. 7 ) [ 3 , 34 ] .
however , the tissue specific splicing of the 5 kb exon in the tacc2l isoform [ 3 ] indicate that this protein have several temporal and tissue specific function yet to be identify .
method
compilation and assembly of previously uncharacterized tacc cdna and gene
correspond orthologous sequence for tacc , rhamm , klp , kif , tpm and keratin family be identify initially use the tblastn program [ 36 ] to search the publish genomic and cdna database .
for takifugu rubripes , gene prediction be produce by the ensembl automate pipeline [ 37 ] and the jgi blast server .
dna sequence cover the homology region be extract and analyze by genscan to obtain potential exon .
in some case , exon be add or modify base on the best similarity of translate peptide to the correspond mouse and human protein .
for region with low sequence similarity , genomic sequence from the fresh water pufferfish , tetraodon nigroviridis be use a additional mean to verify the predict exon .
due to the variability of the central region of vertebrate tacc3 cdna ( see text ) , to far confirm prediction of the takifugu rubripes tacc3 , full length cdna correspond to the danio rerio tacc3 ( image clone 2639991 , 2640369 and 3724452 ) be also obtain from a.t.c.c. and fully sequence .
potential paralogous chromosomal segment and scaffold be identify by search the public database deposit at ncbi and at the human genome mapping project , cambridge uk .
cloning of vertebrate tacc cdna
the rabbit tacc3 be clone by rt - pcr use the " tacc4 " specific primer t4race2 [ 9 ] ( 5 ' - cccgaactgctccaggtaatcgatctc - 3 ' ) and a consensus primer , t3con2 , design to the region encompass the vertebrate tacc3 initiator methionine ( 5 ' - tatgagtctgcaggtcttaaacgac - 3 ' ) .
for clone the mouse tacc1x cdna , the primer use be base upon the genomic sequence report , and the sequence of the image cdna clone 4933429k08 : t1xf ( 5 ' - ccatgttcagtcattggcaggtc - 3 ' ) , t1xf2 ( 5 ' - ctgcagaaccaacagttcaag - 3 ' ) , t1xr1 ( 5 ' - agatctgtgacatcacagctc - 3 ' ) , t1xr2 ( 5 ' - ctcgagtcagttagtcttatccagctt - 3 ' ) , bb617f ( 5 ' - accaccaacttgagtacctg - 3 ' ) and bb617r ( 5 ' - gtatcttgaactgttggttctg - 3 ' ) .
for analysis of tacc1 splice variant , the forward primer use be locate in exon 1b : ef ( 5 ' - gagagatgcgaaatcagcg - 3 ' ) , exon 1d : x3f ( 5 ' - agtcaaagaaggcatctgcag - 3 ' ) , exon 1a : 1df ( 5 ' - ccaagttctgcgccatggg - 3 ' ) .
the reverse primer use be : exon 1 : x1r ( 5 ' - ggatttggtctcggcttgcgaatc - 3 ' ) , exon 2 : bx647r ( 5 ' - cttgtgattcttggcttttgg - 3 ' ) , exon 3 : 6spr ( 5 ' - gtcatcgcctcgtcctggagggc - 3 ' ) , exon 4a : 1dr ( 5 ' - aatttcacttgttcagtagtc - 3 ' ) , exon 5 : 128r ( 5 ' - cctgcttctgaggatgaaaacgc - 3 ' ) .
rabbit brain poly a+ mrna , mouse testis and human brain total rna be obtain from bd bioscience clontech ( palo alto , ca , u.s.a. ) .
reverse transcription and pcr be perform a previously describe , use either 1 μg of total rna or 50 ng of poly a+ mrna a template for first strand cdna synthesis .
pcr product be clone into pcr2.1 ( invitrogen , carlsbad ca , u.s.a. ) and transform into invαf ' competent cell .
plasmid insert be sequence by the roswell park cancer institute biopolymer core facility .
deposition of nucleotide sequence
sequence from this article have be deposit in the genbank database with the follow accession number : homo sapiens tacc1 short isoform s ( ay177411 ) , mu musculus tacc1 short isoform s ( ay177412 ) , mu musculus tacc1 long isoform a ( ay177413 ) , mu musculus tacc2s ( ay177410 ) , oryctolagus cuniculus tacc3 ( ay161270 ) , danio rerio tacc3 ( ay170618 ) .
annotation submit to the third party annotation database at ncbi be a follow : rattus norvegus tacc1 long isoform a ( bk001653 ) , takifugu rubripes tacc1a ( bk000666 / bk000667 ) , takifugu rubripes tacc1b ( bk000664 ) , mu musculus tacc2l ( bk001495 ) , rattus norvegus tacc2l ( bk001658 ) , rattus norvegus tacc2s ( bk001657 ) , takifugu rubripes tacc2l ( bk000690 ) , rattus norvegus tacc3 ( bk001491 ) , gallus gallus tacc3 ( bk001482 ) , silurana tropicalis tacc3 ( bk001481 ) , takifugu rubripes tacc3 ( bk000649 ) , takifugu rubripes rhamm ( bk000676 ) , ciona intestinalis rhamm ( bk001479 ) , takifugu rubripes keratin ( bk000677 ) , takifugu rubripes tpm1 ( bac10576 ) , ciona intestinalis kif3b ( bk001492 ) , ciona intestinalis klp2 ( bk001493 ) .
phylogenetic analysis
in order to examine evolutionary relationship of protein contain coil coil domain , protein sequence represent the major member of this super family , include tacc , rhamm , klp , keratin and tropomyosin from available vertebrate and their recognizable orthologues from the urochordate ciona intestinalis , drosophila melanogaster , c. elegans and saccharomyces cerevisiae be either directly retrieve from ncbi sequence database , newly predict or isolate ( see above ) .
specie abbreviation be a follow : h ( homo sapiens ) , mm ( mu musculus ) , rn ( rattus norvegus ) , oc ( oryctolagus cuniculus ) , gg ( gallus gallus ) , xl ( xenopus laevis ) , st ( silurana tropicalis ) , tr ( takifugu rubripes ) , dr ( danio rerio ) , ci ( ciona intestinalis ) , dm ( d. melanogaster ) , ce ( c. elegans ) , sc ( saccharomyces cerevisiae ) .
the sequence identify above and the follow protein or predict translation be use for phylogenetic analysis : hstacc1a ( np_006274 ) , hstacc2l ( aao62630 ) hstacc2s ( aao62629 ) , hstacc3 ( np_006333 ) , mmtacc3 ( q9jj11 ) , xlmaskin ( q9ptg8 ) , dmtacc ( aaf52099 ) , cetac1 ( np_497059 ) , scspc72 ( np_009352 ) , hsrhamm ( np_036616 ) , mmrhamm ( np_038580 ) , rnrhamm ( np_037096 ) , drrhamm ( aaq97980 ) , hskeratin ( cab76828 ) , mmkeratin ( a61368 ) , rnkeratin ( xp_235679 ) , hstpm1 ( np_000357 ) , mmtpm1 ( np_077745 ) , rntpm1 ( np_62004 , drtpm1 ( np_571180 ) dmtpm1 ( p06754 ) , cetpm ( np_493540 ) sctpm1 ( p17536 ) , hsklp2 ( bab03309 ) , rnkif15 ( aap44513 ) , xlklp2 ( caa08879 ) , dmklp2 ( np_476818 ) , ceklp18 ( aa034669 ) , hskif3a ( q9y496 ) , mmkif3a ( np_032469 ) , rnkif3a ( xp_340797 ) , xlkif3a ( caa08879 ) , ceklp11 ( np_741473 ) , cikif3 ( ci0100148992 ) , hskif3b ( np_004789 ) , mmkif3b ( np_004789 ) , rnkif3b ( xp_215883 ) , dmkif3b ( np_524029 ) , hskif3c ( np_002245 ) , mmkif3c ( np_032471 ) , rnkif3c ( np_445938 ) , dmkif3c ( np_651939 ) .
these protein sequence be initially align with clustal x [ 38 ] .
minor adjustment to certain region of the alignment for optimization purpose be make base on pairwise alignment , the output save in phylip format , after which , the distance between protein be calculate use poisson correction and the unrooted tree be infer with the nj method and then display use treeview [ 39 ] .
bootstrap value above 700 for 1000 trial be show at the node .
to validate the tree , the same sequence set be analyze with tool in the phylip package [ 40 ] , use prodist follow by fitch or neignbor and tree display use treeview .
this additional method produce tree with essentially the same topology ( data not show ) .
in vitro interaction of tacc2 and rxrβ3
the tacc2 cdna be clone into gst fusion vector pgex5x2 ( amersham bioscience , piscataway , nj , usa ) .
gst and gst - tacc2 protein be express in e. coli bl21 ( de3 ) ply " s " with 1 mm iptg at 37 °c shaker for 2 hr .
cell ( 50 ml ) be harvest and resuspend in 5 ml of 20 mm tris - hcl ph.8.0 , 200 mm nacl , 1 mm edta ph8.0 , protease inhibitor set iii ( calbiochem ) .
the cell be lysed by sonication and lysate clear by centrifugation at 7500 rpm at 4 °c for 15 min .
the cleared lysate be immobilize on glutathione sepharose bead in 3 ml of 20 mm tris - hcl ph.8.0 , 200 mm nacl , 1 mm edta ph8.0 ) .
rxrβ3 cdna be clone into pet 28c ( + ) ( invitrogen , carlsbad , ca , usa ) and protein synthesize by tnt quick couple transcription / translation system kit ( promega ) and radiolabeled with 35s methionine accord to manufacturer 's instruction .
100 μl of in vitro translate rxrβ3 protein in 1 ml of 20 mm tris - hcl ph.8.0 , 200 mm nacl , 1 mm edta ph8.0 be incubate at 4 °c with immobilize gst - tacc2 or gst for 90 min .
unbound rxrβ3 be remove by wash three time with 20 mm tris - hcl ph.8.0 , 200 mm nacl , 1 mm edta ph8.0 .
bound protein be elute from the bead at room temperature for 10 min in elution buffer ( 100 mm tris hcl , ph8.0 , 20 mm reduce glutathione ) .
the protein be analyze on 12 % sd polyacrylamide gel .
coomassie blue staining verify equal loading of gst fusion protein .
dry gel be autoradiographed .
author ' contribution
i.h.s perform most of the sequence analysis and draft the assembly of the tacc , klp , kif and rhamm sequence .
i.h.s. perform the cdna isolation of the rabbit tacc3 cdna .
ak identify potential tacc1 splice variant , and the interaction between rxrβ3 and tacc2 .
a.m. characterize mouse tacc orthologues .
p.l. perform the identification and assembly of t. rubripes gene sequence , and the phylogenetic analysis .
i.h.s. conceive and design the project and draft the complete manuscript .
supplementary material
additional file 1
location of paralogous gene find on human 4p16 , 5q31 - ter , 10q23 - ter , 8p and chromosome 2 .
position of gene be give in mb from the telomere of the short arm of the chromosome .
blue highlighted gene ( five copy ) be find in all four paralogous segment , and the partially duplicate segment on chromosome 2 .
green highlighted gene be find in either all four paralogous segment , or three of the segment and the partially duplicate region on chromosome 2 .
pink highlight gene have paralogues in three of the segment , suggest either loss of the fourth copy or exclusion of one paralogue from the second round of duplication .
black highlighted gene ( two paralogues ) be find in only one of the derivative of the second round of genome duplication , suggest complete exclusion of both copy from the second round of duplication .
purple highlight gene ( two paralogues ) be duplicate at the second round of genome duplication , or from interchromosomal recombination between paralogous cluster .
click here for file
acknowledgement
we wish to thank dr. sei - ichi matsui for his assistance and input in the preparation of this manuscript .
this work be support in part by developmental fund support from the roswell park cancer institute , and core grant 2p30ca016056 - 27 from the national cancer institute .
loss of kcnj10 protein expression abolish endocochlear potential and cause deafness in pendred syndrome mouse model
abstract
background
pendred syndrome , a common autosomal - recessive disorder characterize by congenital deafness and goiter , be cause by mutation of slc26a4 , which cod for pendrin .
we investigate the relationship between pendrin and deafness use mouse that have ( slc26a4 + / + ) or lack a complete slc26a4 gene ( slc26a4 - / - ) .
method
expression of pendrin and other protein be determine by confocal immunocytochemistry .
expression of mrna be determine by quantitative rt - pcr .
the endocochlear potential and the endolymphatic k + concentration be measure with double - barreled microelectrodes .
current generate by the stria marginal cell be record with a vibrate probe .
tissue mass be evaluate by morphometric distance measurement and pigmentation be quantify by densitometry .
result
pendrin be find in the cochlea in apical membrane of spiral prominence cell and spindle - shape cell of stria vascularis , in out sulcus and root cell .
endolymph volume in slc26a4 - / - mouse be increase and tissue mass in area normally occupy by type i and ii fibrocytes be reduce .
slc26a4 - / - mouse lack the endocochlear potential , which be generate across the basal cell barrier by the k + channel kcnj10 localize in intermediate cell .
stria vascularis be hyperpigmented , suggest unalleviated free radical damage .
the basal cell barrier appear intact ; intermediate cell and kcnj10 mrna be present but kcnj10 protein be absent .
endolymphatic k + concentration be normal and membrane protein necessary for k + secretion be present , include the k + channel kcnq1 and kcne1 , na + / 2cl - / k + cotransporter slc12a2 and the gap junction gjb2 .
conclusion
these observation demonstrate that pendrin dysfunction lead to a loss of kcnj10 protein expression and a loss of the endocochlear potential , which may be the direct cause of deafness in pendred syndrome .
background
pendred syndrome be a relatively common autosomal - recessive disorder characterize by deafness and goiter [ 1 ] .
the syndrome be cause by mutation of the pd gene slc26a4 , which cod for the protein pendrin [ 2 ] .
deafness be congenital and generally profound although sometimes late in onset and provoke by light head injury .
vestibular dysfunction be uncommon .
goiter be variable and generally develop around puberty [ 3 ] .
the cause of goiter appear to be an impairment of iodide fixation in the follicular lumen due to a reduce rate of iodide transport across the apical membrane of thyroid gland epithelial cell [ 4 ] .
a positive perchlorate discharge test and an enlarge vestibular aqueduct appear to be the most reliable clinical sign of pendred syndrome [ 5 ] .
pendrin be an anion exchanger that can transport cl - , i - , hco3 - and formate [ 6 , 7 ] .
expression have be find in the inner ear and thyroid gland consistent with the clinical sign of deafness and goiter [ 2 , 3 , 8 ] .
in addition , pendrin expression have be find in the kidney [ 9 ] , mammary gland [ 10 ] , uterus [ 11 ] , testis [ 12 ] and placenta [ 13 ] .
no expression be find in fetal or adult brain , consistent with a peripheral cause of deafness [ 2 , 11 ] .
expression of pendrin mrna in the inner ear have be find in several place include the cochlea , the vestibular labyrinth and the endolymphatic sac [ 8 ] .
the precise location of pendrin protein expression , however , have not yet be determine .
the variability of deafness in pendred syndrome and the observation that deafness be sometimes late in onset suggest that pendrin dysfunction may not be the direct cause of deafness .
it be conceivable that pendrin dysfunction favor change in the expression level of protein that be critical for the maintenance of the hearing function .
detailed study aim at identify the direct cause of deafness in pendred syndrome have recently become possible due to the generation of a pendrin - specific polyclonal antibody [ 9 ] and the development of slc26a4 - / - mouse , which bear a targeted disruption of the mouse slc26a4 gene [ 14 ] .
the aim in the present study be to determine the location of pendrin and the cause of deafness in slc26a4 - / - mouse .
method
the endocochlear potential and the endolymphatic and perilymphatic k + concentration be measure in young adult mouse ( 1 – 4 month of age ) that either have ( slc26a4 + / + ) or lack ( slc26a4 - / - ) a functional gene for pendrin [ 14 ] .
the mouse strain 129sv / ev ( taconic , germantown , ny ) be choose a the source of slc26a4 + / + control , since slc26a4 - / - mouse be propagate in the this strain and generate use a stem cell line derive from 129sv / ev .
slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - be agouti .
they do not differ in coat color .
difference in pigmentation be verify use coisogenic age - match slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - that be breed in parallel .
expression of key protein involve in the generation of the endocochlear potential and the transport of k + be study use confocal immunocytochemistry and quantitative rt - pcr .
k + secretion and the generation of the endocochlear potential be measure use electrophysiological technique .
all experiment be approve by the institutional animal care and use committee of kansa state university .
confocal immunocytochemistry
animal be deeply anesthetize with sodium pentobarbital ( 100 mg / kg i.p. ) and transcardially perfuse with a cl - - free phosphate - buffer na - gluconate solution contain 4 % paraformaldehyde .
temporal bone be remove and cochlea fix by perilymphatic perfusion , decalcify in edta , process through a sucrose gradient and infiltrate with polyethylene glycol .
mid-modiolar cryosections ( 12 μm , cm3050s , leica , nussloch , germany ) be block in pb with 0.2 % triton - x ( pb - tx ) and 10 % bovine serum albumin .
slide be incubate overnight at 4 °c with primary antibody in pb - tx with 1 – 3 % bsa [ rabbit anti-pendrin , 1 : 500 ( h766 – 780 ) ; rat anti-zo - 1 , 1 : 100 ( chemicon , temecula , ca ) ; goat anti-kcnq1 , 1 : 200 ( c20 , santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , ca ) , rabbit anti-kcne1 , 1 : 200 ( alomone , jerusalem , israel ) ; rabbit anti-kcnj10 , 1 : 300 ( alomone ) ; rabbit anti-slc12a2 , 1 : 100 ( chemicon ) ; and rabbit anti-connexin 26 , 1 : 100 ( zymed , san francisco , ca ) ] .
slide be wash in pb - tx and incubate for 1 h at 25 °c with appropriate secondary antibody at a 1 : 1000 dilution in pb - tx with 1 – 3 % bsa [ donkey anti-rabbit alexa 488 , chicken anti-rat alexa 594 , and chicken anti-goat alexa 594 ( molecular probe , eugene , or ) ] .
actin filament be visualize by stain with alexa 488 conjugate phalloidin ( molecular probe ) .
after incubation , slide be wash with pb - tx , mount with fluorsave ( calbiochem , la jolla , ca ) , and view by confocal microscopy ( lsm 5 pascal or lsm 510 meta , carl zeiss , jena or göttingen , germany ) .
laser scanning brightfield image be collect to document structural preservation , for morphometric analysis and for analysis of pigmentation .
quantitative rt - pcr
animal be deeply anesthetize with sodium pentobarbital ( 100 mg / kg i.p. ) .
kidney and brain be remove and pulverize in liquid n2 .
temporal bone be remove and two preparation of inner ear tissue be obtain by microdissection : ( 1 ) stria vascularis without spiral ligament , and ( 2 ) spiral ganglion include the surround bone and the organ of corti .
the dissection medium be change twice during the microdissection and isolate tissue be wash three time to minimize cross-contamination .
the slc26a4 - / - genotype be verify by the observation of large otoconia in the utricular macula [ 14 ] .
total rna be isolate and residual dna contamination be remove by enzymatic digestion ( rneasy micro , qiagen , valencia , ca ) .
quality and quantity of 18 rrna obtain from kidney and brain be determine ( nano assay , 2100 bioanalyzer , agilent , palo alto , ca ) .
far , the quality of rna preparation obtain from stria vascularis and spiral ganglion be assess ( pico assay , 2100 bioanalyzer ) .
real time rt - pcr be perform on rna obtain from individual animal ( onestep rt - pcr , qiagen ; smart cycler , cepheid , sunnyvale , ca ) in the presence of 0.2 × sybr green i ( molecular probe ) .
transcript of 18 rrna and mrna for the k + channel kcnj10 , kcnq1 and kcnq4 be amplify use gene - specific primer ( table 1 ) .
rt be perform for 30 min at 50 °c and 15 min at 95 °c .
pcr consist of 50 cycle of 1 min at 60 °c , 1 min at 72 °c , 7 heat to hot - measurement temperature , 13 hot - measurement at 3 – 5 °c below product melting temperature ( table 1 ) and 1 min at 94 °c .
hot - measurement be perform to eliminate the detection of primer - dimer that have melting temperature between 72 and 75 °c [ 15 ] .
pcr be follow by a melt ( 60 to 95 °c ) .
the generation of a single product of appropriate size be routinely check by the presence of a single melt peak and by agarose gel - electrophoresis .
product identity be confirm by sequencing .
table 1
primer
template molecule ( t ) be quantify accord to t = p / ( f ^ ct ) where p be the number of product molecule , f be the fidelity of the reaction and ct be the cycle at which the number of product molecule reach a choose threshold [ 15 ] .
fidelity ( f ) be obtain from the slope ( s ) of the log - linear phase of the growth curve via a best - fit fifth - order polynomial : f = 7.39 + 3.80 × s + 1.05 × s2 + 0.15 × s3 + 11.38 × 10 - 3 * s4 + 3.39 × 10 - 4 × s5 .
the number of product molecule at threshold ( pct ) be determine by amplification of know amount of 18 rrna accord to pct = t × f ^ ct .
quantification of 18 rrna be use to compare tissue amount .
genomic contamination of inner ear sample be assess to be < 0.02 % by omission of the rt step .
in vitro electrophysiology
animal be deeply anesthetize with sodium pentobarbital ( 100 mg / kg i.p. ) .
stria vascularis without spiral ligament be obtain by microdissection .
current generate by the stria marginal epithelium be record [ 16 ] .
a pt - ir wire microelectrode with a pt - black tip be position 20 – 30 μm from the apical surface of the epithelium and vibrate at 200 – 400 hz by piezo - electric bimorph element ( applicable electronics , forest dale , ma ; aset version 1.05 , science ware , east falmouth , ma ) .
a pt - black electrode ( 26 - gauge ) serve a reference in the bath chamber .
the signal from the phase - sensitive detector be digitize ( 16 bit ) at a rate of 0.5 hz .
the output be express a current density at the electrode .
in situ electrophysiology
animal be anesthetize with inactin ( thiobutabarbital sodium salt , 140 mg / kg ip ) .
the endocochlear potential and the endolymphatic [ k + ] be measure with double - barreled microelectrodes [ 17 ] .
measurement be make in the basal turn by a round - window approach through the basilar membrane and in the apical turn after thin the bone over the stria vascularis and pick a small hole ( ~ 30 μm ) .
k + - selective electrode be calibrate in solution of constant cation ( k + and na + ) concentration of 150 mm .
the minor selectivity of the k + electrode for na + produce a nonlinearity in the calibration curve , which be closely fit by the nicolski equation use nonlinear curve - fit software ( originlab , northampton , ma ) : v = vi + s × log ( [ k + ] + a × [ na + ] ) , where vi be an offset term , s be slope , a be selectivity , and [ na + ] be na + concentration .
calibration be make immediately after withdrawal of the electrode from the cochlea .
plasma k + concentration be obtain use a blood analyzer ( stat profile m , nova biomedical , waltham , ma ) .
data be present a mean ± sem ; n denote the number of experiment .
difference be consider significant when p < 0.05 .
result and discussion
in situ hybridization in the cochlea have suggest that pendrin mrna be express in cell that reside immediately beneath the spiral prominence on the lateral wall of the external sulcus [ 8 ] .
to determine the location of pendrin protein expression , we perform confocal immunocytochemistry on cryosections prepare from temporal bone of normal ( slc26a4 + / + ) mouse use an established antibody [ 3 ] .
staining be absent when the primary antibody be pre-absorbed with the antigenic peptide ( data not show ) .
strong expression of pendrin be observe not only in out sulcus epithelial cell , a predict from in situ hybridization data , but also in root cell , in apical membrane of spiral prominence surface epithelial cell and in apical membrane of spindle - shape cell that be part of stria vascularis ( fig. 1a , 1b , 1c ) .
the presence of pendrin in spindle - shape cell suggest that these cell secrete hco3 - into endolymph .
pendrin - mediate hco3 - transport have previously be show in the kidney [ 9 ] .
hco3 - in the cochlea may be generate from co2 by carbonic anhydrase locate in strial intermediate cell [ 18 , 19 ] .
co2 may be supply by the metabolically highly active stria marginal cell .
it be conceivable that pendrin dysfunction interrupt hco3 - secretion and lead to an accumulation of hco3 - in stria vascularis .
preliminary data ( wangemann et al. , unpublished ) support a role for pendrin in hco3 - secretion into endolymph .
figure 1
protein localization of pendrin , kcnq1 , zo - 1 and f actin in cochlea and vestibular labyrinth of slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
a : overview of cochlea ; bar = 100 μm .
b - f : detail of cochlear lateral wall ; bar = 10 μm .
g : detail of utricle ; bar = 10 μm .
h - i : detail of ampulla ; bar = 10 μm .
rm , reissner 's membrane ; sc , spindle - shape cell , smc , strial marginal cell ; sv , stria vascularis ; sl , spiral ligament ; lim , spiral limbus .
bc , basal cell ; sp , spiral prominence epithelial cell ; rc , root cell ; o , out sulcus epithelial cell ; vhc , vestibular hair cell ; vtc , vestibular transitional cell ; vdc , vestibular dark cell ; arrow , basal cell at the top and bottom of stria vascularis form tight junction with surface epithelial cell .
the extent of pendrin expression in spiral prominence cell and stria vascularis be determine by label kcnq1 , a k + channel that be express in strial marginal cell , and zo - 1 , a tight junction protein that label basal cell and thereby delineate the boundary of stria vascularis .
dual labeling experiment demonstrate that pendrin be express in spindle - shape cell , which be surface epithelial cell in stria vascularis adjacent to strial marginal cell near the border of both the spiral prominence and reissner 's membrane ( fig. 1c ) .
in situ hybridization in the vestibular labyrinth suggest that pendrin mrna be express in non-sensory cell [ 8 ] .
use confocal immunocytochemistry on cryosections , we observe strong expression of the pendrin protein in the apical membrane of vestibular transitional cell in the utricle and ampulla ( fig. 1g , 1h , 1i ) .
dual labeling with kcnq1 demonstrate that pendrin expression be clearly limit to vestibular transitional cell and do not extend to other non-sensory cell such a vestibular dark cell , which be clearly identify by the expression of kcnq1 and kcne1 in their apical membrane .
the onset of pendrin expression during development of the mouse inner ear have be determine to be embryonic day ( ed ) 13 [ 14 ] .
morphologically detectable difference in the inner ear of slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse become evident as early a ed 15 , when slc26a4 - / - mouse start to develop an enlarged endolymphatic space that persist into adulthood [ 14 ] .
interestingly , sensory hair cell in the cochlea appear normal until postnatal day ( pd ) 7 but show clear evidence of degeneration by pd 15 [ 14 ] .
these observation suggest that the cochlear environment support the survival of sensory hair cell in spite of the enlargement of the endolymphatic duct .
a normal endolymphatic k + concentration , which be critical for hair cell survival [ 20 ] , be establish at pd 3 [ 21 ] and may persist in slc26a4 - / - at least until pd 7 .
the time period between pd 7 and 15 be the time when the endocochlear potential develop at the onset of hearing [ 22 ] .
we hypothesize that a lack of a normal endocochlear potential or an alteration of the endolymphatic k + concentration could account for deafness in slc26a4 - / - mouse .
measurement reveal that the endocochlear potential be absent but that the endolymphatic k + concentration be normal in adult slc26a4 - / - ( fig. 2a ) .
no significant difference between slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse be find in perilymphatic ( fig. 2a ) or plasma k + concentration ( slc26a4 + / + , 4.9 ± 0.3 mm , n = 6 ; slc26a4 - / - , 5.1 ± 0.3 mm , n = 6 ) .
these observation suggest that a primary event lead to deafness in slc26a4 - / - mouse , and potentially in patient suffer from pendred syndrome , be the loss of the endocochlear potential .
degeneration of hair cell be probably a response to the loss of the endocochlear potential .
figure 2
potential , k + concentration and pigmentation of stria vascularis in slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
a : endocochlear potential and k + concentration in endolymph and perilymph at the apex ( a ) and base ( b ) of the cochlea .
number adjacent to symbol denote number of measurement .
b - d : pigmentation of stria vascularis in slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
b : view of stria vascularis through the bony capsule of the cochlea .
ow , oval window , rw , round window ; arrow , stria vascularis .
c - d : whole - mount of stria vascularis isolate from age - match mouse .
c : laser - scan image , bar = 10 μm , d : quantification of pigmentation base on optical density .
the endocochlear potential be generate by stria vascularis in the lateral wall of the cochlea [ 17 , 23 ] .
the potential be generate across the basal cell barrier of stria vascularis by the k + channel kcnj10 locate in intermediate cell [ 24 ] , which be connect to basal cell by a high density of gap junction [ 25 ] .
marginal cell of stria vascularis , which form the barrier toward endolymph , transport k + from the intrastrial space into endolymph and keep the k + concentration low adjacent to the kcnj10 k + channel [ 26 ] .
to determine the cause of the loss of the endocochlear potential in slc26a4 - / - mouse , we first determine whether intermediate cell be present in stria vascularis , since a loss of intermediate cell be know to lead to a loss of the endocochlear potential [ 27 , 28 ] .
intermediate cell of stria vascularis be visualize by their pigmentation .
pigmentation be present in stria vascularis of slc26a4 - / - mouse ( fig. 2b ) , which suggest that intermediate cell be present .
interestingly , pigmentation of stria vascularis be much strong in slc26a4 - / - than in slc26a4 + / + mouse .
to determine in great detail the cause of the loss of the endocochlear potential in slc26a4 - / - mouse , we isolate total rna from stria vascularis and spiral ganglion of young ( 1 – 4 month ) slc26a4 + / + and both young and old ( ~ 12 month ) slc26a4 - / - mouse , assess amount of isolate tissue by quantification of 18 rrna , and quantify the expression of kcnj10 mrna .
quantity of stria vascularis isolate from these different mouse be similar , since no significant difference be find in the number of 18 rrna molecule ( log ( rrna ) = 9.46 ± 0.08 , n = 17 , pooled data ) .
in contrast , quantity of spiral ganglion isolate from young and old slc26a4 - / - mouse ( log ( rrna ) = 9.04 ± 0.18 , n = 4 and 9.29 ± 0.15 , n = 6 ) be significantly small than in slc26a4 + / + mouse ( log ( rrna ) = 9.48 ± 0.19 , n = 7 ) , consistent with morphometric data ( see below ) .
expression of kcnj10 mrna be normal in stria vascularis and spiral ganglion of young slc26a4 - / - mouse but significantly reduce in old slc26a4 - / - mouse ( fig. 3 ) .
quantification of kcnq1 and kcnq4 mrna be use to assess possible cross-contamination between the stria vascularis and spiral ganglion preparation base on the assumption that ( 1 ) kcnq1 be express in cell of the stria vascularis but not the spiral ganglion preparation and ( 2 ) kcnq4 be express in cell of the spiral ganglion but not the stria vascularis preparation .
the number of kcnq1 mrna molecule in stria vascularis be 24 - fold great than in spiral ganglion , and the number of kcnq4 mrna molecule in spiral ganglion be 5 - fold great than in stria vascularis .
these observation validate our measurement of kcnj10 and kcnq1 by demonstrate that the microdissected preparation of stria vascularis and spiral ganglion be 98 % and 78 % pure , respectively .
figure 3
quantification of kcnj10 and kcnq1 mrna expression in stria vascularis and spiral ganglion of slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
a : electropherogram of total rna isolate from stria vascularis microdissected from one mouse .
the amount of total rna be obtain from the total integral ( shaded ) and the amount of 18 rrna be obtain from the integral of the 18 peak .
sharp peak represent 18 and 28 rrna demonstrate the high quality of rna .
insert : genotype of slc26a4 - / - mouse be verify by the observation of one or few very large rhomboedric otoconia in the utricular macula ( arrow ) .
a , crista ampullaris ; u , utricular macula .
scale bar : 100 μm .
b : example of real - time rt - pcr data use for quantification of 18 , kcnj10 , kcnq1 and kcnq4 .
known quantity of 18 rrna be use to calibrate the threshold .
sv , stria vascularis ; sg , spiral ganglion .
c : quantification of kcnj10 and kcnq1 mrna in young slc26a4 + / + and young and old slc26a4 - / - mouse .
the presence of kcnj10 mrna in stria vascularis of slc26a4 - / - mouse support the finding that intermediate cell be present .
expression of the kcnj10 protein be assess in young slc26a4 - / - mouse by confocal immunocytochemistry .
interestingly , expression of the kcnj10 protein be absent in stria vascularis but normal in spiral ganglion ( fig. 4 ) .
the absence of the kcnj10 k + channel in stria vascularis be sufficient to explain the loss of the endocochlear potential [ 17 ] .
figure 4
protein localization of kcnj10 in the cochlea of slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
a : overview of cochlea ; bar = 100 μm .
compare to fig. 1a to note the enlarged scala medium and the distended reissner 's membrane .
b - c : detail of lateral wall and spiral ganglion ( insert ) ; main bar : 10 μm , insert : 5 μm .
expression of kcnj10 in slc26a4 - / - mouse be absent in stria vascularis but unchanged in spiral ganglion cell .
rm , reissner 's membrane , sv , stria vascularis ; sp , spiral prominence ; sl , spiral ligament ; lim , spiral limbus ; sg , spiral ganglion .
histological evaluation of cryosections reveal an enlargement of scala medium with a large bulging of reissner 's membrane and an apparent degeneration of the organ of corti , a describe earlier [ 14 ] .
tissue height of stria vascularis be normal ( fig. 5 ) , consistent with the similar number of 18 rrna molecule in isolate preparation ( see above ) .
the absence of a change in tissue height be consistent with the presence of intermediate cell [ 28 ] .
far , we observe an apparent loss of tissue mass in area that be normally occupy primarily by type i and ii fibrocytes .
spiral prominence in slc26a4 - / - mouse be less prominent , spiral ligament thin and spiral limbus flat ( fig. 5 ) .
the observation that tissue mass be lose in the spiral limbus region be consistent with the finding of a reduce number of 18 rrna molecule in the spiral ganglion preparation ( see above ) .
in addition , we observe an apparent degeneration of stria vascularis , include an increase in pigmentation and an irregular pattern of the tight junction of marginal cell ( fig. 2c , 6 , 7 ) .
tight junction be visualize by f - actin expression .
marginal cell appear to form a continuous layer .
figure 5
morphometric analysis of cochlear tissue mass in slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
a : location of measurement .
thickness of stria vascularis ( sv ) be obtain a average of three distance measurement perpendicular to the surface of marginal cell .
thickness of spiral prominence ( sp ) be measure perpendicular to a tangential line ( dashed ) that connect the surface of the out sulcus ( o ) with the basal layer of stria vascularis .
thickness of spiral ligament ( sl ) be measure perpendicular to the tangential line a distance between the surface of spiral prominence and the interface between spiral ligament and bone ( b ) .
thickness of spiral limbus ( lim ) be obtain perpendicular to the surface of the bone a a tangential line that touch the inner sulcus ( is ) and reach from the surface of the spiral limbus to the interface between spiral limbus connective tissue and bone .
b : summary .
data from 7 – 8 animal contribute to each column .
figure 6
analysis of marginal and basal cell barrier by in slc26a4 - / - mouse .
tight junction be visualize by f actin .
whole - mount of stria vascularis be view either from the basal cell side ( a - f ) or from the marginal cell side ( g - l ) .
bright field image verify that the same area be view from either side ( b and h ) .
colored bright field image be mix with image of f actin staining to indicate the position of pigment granule ( d , j , f and l ) .
focus be vary to either visualize the marginal cell barrier ( smc , c - d and i - j ) or the basal cell barrier ( bc , e - f and k - l ) .
both the marginal cell ( e - f ) and the basal cell barrier ( i - f ) appear to be intact .
it be critical for this finding that pigmentation do not block the path of the laser .
blockage of the laser by pigmentation produce the untrue impression of a discontinuous marginal cell barrier ( c - d ) or basal cell barrier ( k - l ) .
comparison of image be aid by mark a significant area with a star .
bar = 10 μm .
figure 7
analysis of marginal and basal cell barrier in slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
tight junction be visualize by f actin in whole - mount of stria vascularis .
bright field image be take to evaluate pigmentation ( a , d and g ) .
note the intact marginal cell ( b ) and basal cell ( c ) barrier in slc26a4 + / + mouse .
minimal pigmentation of slc26a4 + / + mouse do not compromise f actin localization .
whole - mount of stria vascularis from slc26a4 - / - mouse be view either from the basal cell side ( e - f ) or from the marginal cell side ( h - i ) .
bright field image verify that the same area be view from either side ( d and g ) .
focus be vary to either visualize the marginal cell barrier ( smc , b , e and h ) or the basal cell barrier ( bc , c , f and i ) .
both the basal cell ( f ) and the marginal cell ( h ) barrier appear to be intact .
blockage of the laser by pigmentation produce the untrue impression of ' hole ' in the marginal cell barrier ( e ) or basal cell barrier ( i ) .
comparison of image be aid by mark three significant area with colored star .
bar = 10 μm .
pendrin - express surface epithelial cell in the spiral prominence region be locate in an area where basal cell , which be interconnect by tight junction , form additional tight junction with surface epithelial cell [ 29 ] .
a discontinuity of this complex junction in slc26a4 - / - mouse would explain the absence of the endocochlear potential .
to evaluate the presence of this connection , we determine by confocal immunocytochemistry the expression of zo - 1 and of f - actin , which associate with tight junction complex .
zo - 1 and f - actin expression reveal a continuous layer of basal cell , include a junction of basal cell with surface epithelial cell in slc26a4 - / - mouse , a observe in normal mouse ( fig. 1c , 1d , 1e , 1f , 6 , 7 ) .
these observation make it unlikely that the primary cause of the loss of the endocochlear potential be a compromise in the basal cell barrier .
the observation that endolymphatic and perilymphatic k + concentration be normal in slc26a4 - / - mouse suggest that stria vascularis be able to secrete k + in spite of the apparent sign of degeneration .
the rate of k + secretion necessary to maintain endolymphatic k + concentration , however , may be less than necessary in slc26a4 + / + mouse give the reduced number of sensory hair cell , which provide a major pathway for k + exit from endolymph [ 30 , 31 ] .
in order to substantiate the view that stria vascularis in slc26a4 - / - secrete k + , we measure the magnitude of the bumetanide - sensitive current exit stria vascularis across the apical membrane of strial marginal cell and determine the expression of the protein kcnq1 , kcne1 and slc12a2 , which be essential for k + secretion [ 20 , 32 , 33 ] , and of gjb2 ( cx26 ) , which be think to contribute to k + cycling [ 23 ] .
k + secretion be know to be sensitive to 10 - 5 m bumetanide , a loop - diuretic that inhibit the na + / 2cl - / k + cotransporter slc12a2 [ 26 ] .
bumetanide - sensitive current be find in both slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse although the magnitude of the current be significantly small in slc26a4 - / - mouse ( 22 ± 6 μa / cm2 , n = 4 versus 14 ± 2 μa / cm2 , n = 4 ) .
kcnq1 and kcne1 , subunit of the secretory k + channel , be co-localized in the apical membrane of strial marginal cell ; the na + / 2cl - / k + cotransporter slc12a2 , which be locate in the basolateral membrane of strial marginal cell , be find in stria vascularis ; and the gap junction protein gjb2 be find in spiral ligament of slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse ( fig. 8 ) .
co-localization of kcnq1 and kcne1 protein be also observe in vestibular dark cell ( fig. 1i ) .
expression of kcnq1 protein in stria vascularis of slc26a4 - / - mouse be consistent with the finding of kcnq1 mrna expression ( fig. 3 ) .
these observation make it unlikely that the primary cause of the loss of the endocochlear potential be a compromise of k + secretion by strial marginal cell or a compromise of gap junction mediate k + cycling .
figure 8
protein localization of kcnq1 , kcne1 , slc12a2 and gjb2 in the cochlear lateral wall of slc26a4 + / + and slc26a4 - / - mouse .
a - f : bar : 10 μm .
smc , strial marginal cell ; sv , stria vascularis ; bc , basal cell ; sl , spiral ligament .
conclusion
we describe location of pendrin expression in the cochlea and vestibular labyrinth and detect normal endolymphatic k + concentration in spite of an enlargement of this fluid compartment .
we find that slc26a4 - / - mouse lack the endocochlear potential because they do not express kcnj10 protein .
intermediate cell protect stria vascularis by convert co2 to hco3 - and by detoxify free radical ( fig. 9 ) .
co2 and free radical be generate by the large number of mitochondrion in the metabolically highly active strial marginal cell .
intermediate cell employ carbonic anhydrase to convert co2 to hco3 - [ 18 , 19 ] and catalase to detoxify free radical .
to protect themselves from free radical damage , intermediate cell generate glutathione and melanin pigment [ 34 - 37 ] .
it be conceivable that loss of pendrin , which may secrete hco3 - into endolymph , result in an accumulation of hco3 - and an alkalinization of the intrastrial space .
this extracellular alkalinization may enhance free radical stress , since it may inhibit the uptake of cysteine and thereby limit production of the protective glutathione [ 38 ] .
support for the hypothesis of enhance free radical stress come from the observe hyperpigmentation in mouse lack pendrin .
strial hyperpigmentation have also be observe in other condition that be associate with free radical stress , such a acoustic trauma [ 37 ] .
alteration in the cytosolic ph in conjunction with free radical stress may lead to the loss of kcnj10 protein expression in strial intermediate cell .
function and expression of other k + channel have be show to be control by the cytosolic ph and free radical , which encode the metabolic state of the cell [ 39 ] .
suppression of the kcnj10 k + channel in strial intermediate cell , which be essential for the generation of the endocochlear potential , be probably the direct cause of deafness in slc26a4 - / - mouse and patient suffer from pendred syndrome .
figure 9
model for the loss of kcnj10 in the absence of pendrin expression in stria vascularis .
cys , cysteine , glu , glutamate , gly , glycine , ca , carbonic anhydrase , gst , glutathione - s - transferase , gsh , glutathione .
compete interest
none declare .
author ' contribution
pw design and coordinate the immunocytochemical , morphometrical and molecular biological experiment .
emi and ba carry out confocal immunocytochemistry on cryosections .
sj and svj carry out confocal microscopy on whole - mount of stria vascularis .
svj and rjm carry out quantitative rt - pcr .
dcm design and coordinate electrophysiological experiment .
tw carry out measurement of the endocochlear potential and the endolymphatic k + concentration .
jhl carry out current measurement on strial marginal cell .
smw , lae , ier and edg provide the mouse and the pendrin - specific antibody .
pw and dcm conceive the study .
pw write the manuscript .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
pre-publication history
the pre-publication history for this paper can be access here :
acknowledgement
this work be support by nih - r01 - dc01098 ( pw ) , nih - r01 - dc00212 ( dcm ) , nih - r01 - dk52935 ( smw ) and core facility fund by nih - p20 - rr017686 ( confocal microfluorometry and microscopy core , molecular biology core ) be gratefully acknowledge .
loss of atrx affect trophoblast development and the pattern of x - inactivation in extraembryonic tissue
abstract
atrx be an x - encode member of the snf2 family of atpase / helicase protein think to regulate gene expression by modify chromatin at target locus .
mutation in atrx provide the first example of a human genetic disease associate with defect in such protein .
to well understand the role of atrx in development and the associate abnormality in the atr - x ( alpha thalassemia mental retardation , x - link ) syndrome , we conditionally inactivate the homolog in mouse , atrx , at the 8 - to 16 - cell stage of development .
the protein , atrx , be ubiquitously express , and male embryo null for atrx implant and gastrulated normally but do not survive beyond 9.5 day postcoitus due to a defect in formation of the extraembryonic trophoblast , one of the first terminally differentiate lineage in the develop embryo .
carrier female mouse that inherit a maternal null allele should be affect , since the paternal x chromosome be normally inactivated in extraembryonic tissue .
surprisingly , however , some carrier female establish a normal placenta and appear to escape the usual pattern of imprint x - inactivation in these tissue .
together these finding demonstrate an unexpected , specific , and essential role for atrx in the development of the murine trophoblast and present an example of escape from imprint x chromosome inactivation .
synopsis
atrx belong to a class of protein that may modify how dna be package into chromatin , alter the accessibility of other protein in the nucleus to dna .
in this way , atrx be think to influence gene expression .
mutation in the atrx gene , which be locate on the female sex chromosome ( x ) , provide the first example of a human disease ( atr - x syndrome ) associate with defect in such protein .
affect male ( xmuty ) have multiple developmental abnormality in a wide variety of system .
currently , it be not understand how protein like atrx influence cell biology .
to address this question , the author delete the version of the gene in mouse , atrx .
although affect male mouse ( xmuty ) start to develop normally , they die early in development because they fail to form a normal placenta .
in the placenta , female mouse normally inactivate the x chromosome that they inherit from their father ( xp ) , so if female inherit from their mother an x chromosome ( xm ) that bear the abnormal copy of atrx ( xmmutxp ) , one would predict that , like affect male , they would fail to form a normal placenta .
the author unexpectedly find this not to be so .
they show , instead , that in such female the normal , paternally derive atrx gene be active .
this study have therefore demonstrate an important facet of x - chromosome imprinting .
introduction
atr - x syndrome be a severe , nonprogressive form of x - link mental retardation that be frequently associate with multiple congenital abnormality [ 1 ] .
it be usually associate with a mild form of α - thalassaemia , cause by reduce expression of structurally intact α - globin gene , and characterise by the presence of β - globin tetramers ( haemoglobin h inclusion body ) in peripheral red blood cell .
carrier female occasionally manifest haemoglobin h inclusion , but be otherwise intellectually and physically normal .
study of x - chromosome inactivation in carrier female have demonstrate preferential inactivation of the chromosome bear the abnormal allele in a variety of tissue [ 2 ] , and this skewing of x - inactivation be think to explain the mild phenotype observe in carrier .
the atr - x syndrome be cause by mutation in a gene ( atrx ) that comprise 36 exon span 300 kb of genomic dna at chromosome xq13.3 [ 3 ] .
this gene encode two dominant protein isoforms ( figure 1 ) .
as well a the full - length atrx protein of ~ 280 kda , which be encode by a transcript of ~ 10 kb , we recently demonstrate that a truncate isoform call atrxt ( ~ 200 kda ) be produce from a transcript of around 7 kb , which arise when intron 11 fail to be splice from the primary transcript and an alternative intronic poly ( a ) signal be use [ 4 ] .
the mouse homolog of the atrx gene , atrx , be also situate on the x chromosome , and also give rise to full - length ( atrx , ~ 280 kda ) and truncate ( atrxt , ~ 200 kda ) isoforms [ 4 , 5 ] .
disease - cause missense mutation be cluster in two region of the gene : a phd - like zinc finger domain and a snf2 - like atpase domain ( figure 1 ) [ 6 ] .
the former motif be think to be involve in protein - protein interaction in chromatin [ 7 ] , and the latter be a feature of chromatin - remodelling protein , and the presence of disease - cause mutation indicate the functional importance of these domain .
atrx have be show to remodel chromatin [ 8 ] .
it also interact with hp1 at heterochromatin [ 9 ] and be recruit to promyelocytic leukemia nuclear body via an interaction with daxx [ 10 ] .
furthermore , disruption of atrx lead to diverse change in dna methylation [ 11 ] .
nevertheless , the role atrx play in gene expression remain unclear .
the consistent core of clinical and haematological feature observe in atr - x patient suggest that , like the swi2 / snf2 chromatin - remodelling protein , atrx probably regulate transcription of a discrete set of target gene .
however , although there be clearly others to be find , at present the α - globin gene remain the only confirm target for transcriptional regulation by atrx .
little be currently know about the precise role of the atrx protein during mammalian development .
to investigate the role of this protein during mouse development , we generate a conditionally delete allele of the atrx gene in mouse embryonic stem ( e ) cell , and use these cell to examine the effect of ablate expression of the full - length atrx protein in e cell and in mouse embryo .
result
generation of e cell lack full - length atrx
like the human gene , the mouse atrx gene be also x - link , such that a direct disruption of the single atrx allele in male e cell would immediately give rise to the null state .
no target clone be recover after attempt homologous recombination in male e14tg2a e cell use two different vector that remove exon 18 of the atrx gene .
exon 18 encode the first of the seven motif compose the conserve snf2 - like domain of atrx ( figure 1 ) ; mutation of the correspond motif of the yeast snf2 protein have be show to severely impair swi / snf - dependent gene expression [ 12 ] .
the failure to recover target clone with these vector suggest that atrx may be important for normal e cell growth and expansion and that direct targeting of the single locus may not be possible .
we therefore adopt a conditional strategy for target exon 18 ( figure 2 ) and recover two clone in which exon 18 have be flank by loxp recognition site for the cre recombinase ( atrxflox allele in figure 2a ) ( figure 2b ) .
this allele also contain a loxp - flank mc1 - neor cassette in intron 17 ( figure 2a ) .
northern and western blot analysis ( figure 2d and 2e ) confirm that the atrxflox clone continue to express both full - length atrx protein and the truncate atrxt isoform .
to generate the full deletion in e cell , the atrxflox clone ( 1 / f12 and 1 / g11 ) be transiently transfected with a cre - recombinase expression plasmid ( pcaggs - cre - irespuro ) , and subclones be recover bear an allele ( atrxδ18δneo in figure 2a ) in which both exon 18 and the neor cassette have be delete by the cre recombinase ( result from the recombination event label “ c ” in the atrxflox allele show in figure 2a ) ( figure 2c ) .
northern and western blot analysis ( figure 2d and 2e ) reveal that the full - length atrx transcript and protein be completely abolish in the atrxδ18δneo recombinant clone , suggest that deletion of this region have a highly destabilising effect on the full - length transcript .
a expect , the truncate atrxt isoform , the transcript of which be terminate within intron 11 [ 4 ] , be unaffected by the deletion of exon 18 ( figure 2e ) .
while the function of atrxt be not yet clear , this isoform , which contain the phd - like domain but not the swi / snf motif ( figure 1 ) , be unlikely to be functionally equivalent to the full - length protein .
thus , a conditional knockout strategy allow the isolation of e cell that be null for full - length atrx .
perturb growth and methylation defect in atrxnull e cell
atrxnull e cell could be maintain in culture but be generally slower grow than atrx + e clone , and appear to undergo high rate of spontaneous differentiation .
we investigate directly the effect of atrx on e cell growth by compare atrx + and atrxnull e cell clone in competition culture .
equal number of atrx + ( bear either an atrxwt or an atrxflox allele ) and atrxnull ( bear an atrxδ18δneo allele ) e cell be inoculate into culture and the mix culture be passaged ( 1 : 3 split ) every 2 d for 8 – 10 d .
the relative abundance of the different allele in the culture at each time point be analyse by southern blotting ( figure 3a ) .
the clone contain the atrxδ18δneo allele be rapidly outgrow by both atrxwt e cell and cell bear the atrxflox allele .
in a control competition experiment between different clone bear functional atrx allele ( atrxwt and atrxflox ) , both clone continue to be equally represented after 8 d of cocultivation .
thus , although atrxnull e cell could be recover and maintain in culture by a conditional targeting approach , these cocultivation experiment suggest that the absence of atrx do negatively impact upon normal e cell growth .
to investigate a possible cell - cycle defect in the absence of atrx , we analyse the cell cycle distribution of bromodeoxyuridine ( brdu ) - pulse e cell by flow cytometry ( figure s1a ) .
surprisingly , both atrxnull e cell clone exhibit a cell cycle profile that be indistinguishable from e cell bear a functional atrx allele ( atrxwt or atrxflox ) .
we also specifically quantitated the mitotic index within each population by flow cytometry after stain e cell for phosphorylated ( ser10 ) histone h3 , a specific marker of mitosis ( figure s1b ) [ 13 ] .
consistent with the normal cell - cycle profile observe above , there be no depletion in the size of the mitotic population in the atrxnull e clone , despite their slow growth .
finally , we investigate whether the growth defect in the atrxnull e cell be due to an up - regulation of apoptosis by stain cell with annexin v ( figure s2 ) and find that the proportion of apoptotic cell be not significantly affect by the absence of full - length atrx .
thus , the growth defect observe in e cell lack atrx be not due to a specific cell cycle block or significant induction of cell death .
while the cause of the proliferative delay be not yet clear , since atrxnull e cell appear to undergo high rate of spontaneous differentiation ( unpublished data ) , it seem likely that the observe growth defect reflect the spontaneous transition from fast - cycle , undifferentiated e cell into more slowly cycle , differentiated cell type in these culture .
it have be show that disease - cause mutation in the human atrx gene give rise to change in the normal pattern of dna methylation at several repetitive sequence within the human genome [ 11 ] .
notably , the transcribe region of the ribosomal dna ( rdna ) repeat be find to be significantly hypomethylated in atr - x patient relative to normal individual .
use methylation - sensitive restriction enzyme , we also observe significant hypomethylation at several site test within the mouse rdna repeat in atrxnull e cell and 12 - d embryoid body relative to e cell and embryoid body bear a functional atrx allele ( atrxwt or atrxflox ) ( figure 3b and 3c ) .
the observation that rdna be hypomethylated in the absence of atrx , even in e cell , be consistent with the finding that hypomethylation of the human rdna repeat be detectable from an early developmental stage in atr - x patient .
other mouse repetitive sequence element survey in e cell dna include the heterochromatic major satellite ( assay with maeii ) and minor satellite ( assay with hpaii ) repeat , as well a intersperse retroviral repeat of the intracisternal a particle ( iap ) type and the line 1 and sine b1 family ( all assay with hpaii ) .
these repeat be find to be moderately ( line 1 and sine b1 ) or highly ( iap , major satellite , minor satellite ) methylated in wild - type e cell , and this methylation be not detectably perturb by the absence of atrx ( figure s3 and unpublished data ) .
take together , these data indicate that the subtle interplay between the atrx protein and dna methylation observe in human patient be also present in mouse cell .
early embryonic lethality in atrxnull male mouse
to investigate the role of the atrx protein during mouse development , we initially establish line of mouse bear the atrxflox allele .
two independently target atrxflox e cell clone with normal male karyotype be inject into c57bl / 6 blastocyst to produce chimaeric mouse , which be then use to obtain germline transmission .
intercrosses between male hemizygous ( atrxflox / y ) and female heterozygous ( atrxwt / flox ) for the floxed allele be also carry out to generate homozygous female ( atrxflox / flox ) .
male hemizygous and female heterozygous or homozygous for the atrxflox allele be viable , appear healthy , and breed normally , suggest that , a expect , the atrxflox allele be functionally normal .
to generate atrxnull mouse by cre - mediate recombination , the atrxflox mouse be cross with mouse harbor a transgene in which the cre recombinase be express under the control of the regulatory element of the mouse gata - 1 gene ( gata1 - cre ) [ 14 ] .
widespread expression of the gata1 - cre transgene have be demonstrate during early embryogenesis [ 14 ] .
we more accurately define the onset of gata1 - cre expression use a rosa26 reporter strain , in which a β - galactosidase / neor fusion reporter gene be express only after cre - mediate excision of loxp - flank transcription and translation termination signal [ 14 ] .
we find that the gata1 - cre transgene be already active at the 16 - cell morula stage of development ( 0.5 day postcoitus [ dpc ] ) ( figure 4a ) .
to generate atrxnull mouse , heterozygous floxed female ( atrxwt / flox ) be mat with homozygous gata1 - cre transgenic male ( atrxwt / y ; gata1 - cre + / + ) .
no atrxnull male ( atrxnull / y ; gata1 - cre + / − ) be recover at birth , indicate that the absence of atrx result in embryonic lethality .
this finding be unexpected , since human atr - x patient clearly survive to adulthood ( see discussion ) .
embryo be dissect at 7.5 , 8.5 , and 9.5 dpc and genotyped by pcr analysis of dna extract from yolk sac or total embryo ( figure 4b and protocol s1 ) .
atrxnull male be present at expect mendelian ratio ( ~ 25 % ) at both 7.5 dpc and 8.5 dpc ( table 1 ) .
however , by 9.5 dpc , depletion be observe both in the number of atrxnull male ( 7 % ) and in the total number of male recover ( 31 % ) .
no atrxnull male be recover after 9.5 dpc .
thus the absence of atrx give rise to embryonic lethality in mouse before 9.5 dpc .
to investigate the morphology of atrxnull embryo prior to death , embryo from the above cross be initially dissect in their decidua at 7.5 dpc , and paraffin section be stain with haematoxylin ( figure 5a ) or with an anti-atrx antibody ( figure 5b – 5e ) .
immunohistochemical staining reveal that atrx be widely express in wild - type 7.5 dpc embryo ( figure 5b ) .
expression be high in the embryonic region ( figure 5c ) and the chorion ( figure 5d ) .
detectable but low level of expression be observe in the ectoplacental cone ( figure 5d ) and surround decidual tissue .
we also observe very high level of atrx expression in trophoblast giant cell ( tgcs ) surround the reichert 's membrane ( figure 5e ) .
within the large nucleus of these tgcs , the typical nuclear association of atrx with block of pericentromeric heterochromatin [ 15 ] be clearly observable .
only background staining be see in the correspond atrxnull embryonic tissue ( figure 5b – 5d ) , while expression in the surround decidual tissue ( of maternal origin ) be normal and serve a an antibody staining control ( unpublished data ) .
morphologically , 7.5 dpc atrxnull embryo be dramatically reduce in size and appear developmentally retarded relative to stage - match wild - type embryo ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
however , despite their reduce size , the general morphology and organisation of embryonic structure in atrxnull conceptus appear grossly normal .
the amnion and chorion be clearly present and the amniotic , exocoelomic , and ectoplacental cavity be distinguishable , a be all three embryonic germ layer ( figure 5a – 5c ) .
at 8.5 dpc , embryo be dissect free of decidua , and observe in whole mount .
individual conceptus be genotyped by pcr use dna isolate from yolk sac a describe in protocol s1 .
consistent with observation at 7.5 dpc , the general morphology of the embryo proper of atrxnull conceptus also appear grossly normal at 8.5 dpc .
the head fold have clearly form , and expression of the early mesoderm marker brachyury ( t ) [ 16 ] be detect in the primitive streak and emerge notochord by whole - mount in situ hybridisation ( wmish ) ( figure 5f ) , indicate that atrxnull embryo have gastrulated .
to investigate whether the reduce size of the atrxnull embryo be due to an increase in apoptosis , we analyse section of paraffin - embed 7.5 dpc embryo by tdt - mediate dutp nick end labeling ( tunel ) assay ( figure 6a ) .
very few apoptotic cell be detect in wild - type 7.5 dpc embryo .
in atrxnull embryo , a slight increase in the apoptotic population be evident .
however , consistent with our observation of a grossly normal apoptotic index in atrxnull e cell ( figure s2 ) , the apoptotic response observe in atrxnull embryo be also not uniform , but be restrict to a low number of scatter tunel - positive cell .
since this small apoptotic response be unlikely to account fully for the dramatic size deficit observe in atrxnull embryo , a possible proliferation defect be also investigate by immunohistochemical staining of 7.5 dpc embryo section for the mitosis marker phosphorylated ( ser10 ) histone h3 [ 13 ] .
relative to the very high mitotic index observe in wild - type embryo , the proportion of mitotic cell observe in atrxnull embryo at 7.5 dpc be dramatically reduce ( figure 6b ) .
take together , these result suggest that the size deficit observe in atrxnull embryo prior to lethality largely reflect a proliferative defect , with a minor but indirect contribution from increase apoptosis .
although a growth defect be also observe in atrxnull e cell ( figure 3a ) , in contrast to the atrxnull embryo , the mitotic index of the e cell population ( a measure with the same antibody ) be not deplete ( figure s1b ) .
these observation suggest that the mitotic defect observe in embryo be unlikely to be a direct , cell - autonomous effect of the absence of atrx , and be more likely to be a secondary effect result from the failure to develop a normal trophoblast ( see below ) .
trophectoderm failure in atrxnull embryo
whole - mount observation of 8.5 dpc embryo reveal that , in contrast to the basically normal although delay morphology of the embryo itself , the extraembryonic tissue of atrxnull conceptus appear highly disorganised .
when embryo be remove from decidua , the surround trophectoderm layer appear dramatically reduced in atrxnull embryo relative to wild - type littermates , and the underlie ectoplacental cone appear reduced and abnormally shape ( figure 7a ) .
vacate decidua surround 8.5 dpc wild - type and atrxnull embryo be bisect and analyse by wmish for expression of placental lactogen - 1 ( pl - 1 ) , a marker of terminally differentiate tgcs .
the number of pl - 1 - express cell attach to the decidual wall after removal of the embryo be an indication of the density of trophoblast cell surround each implantation site [ 17 ] .
we find that the population of pl - 1 - express cell be deplete in the decidual implantation site contain atrxnull embryo relative to those contain wild - type littermates ( figure 7b ) ; this be also apparent at 7.5 dpc , a determine by immunohistochemical staining of paraffin section of embryo in decidua with an anti-pl - 1 antibody ( figure 7c ) .
a tgc deficiency in the absence of atrx be consistent with the observation that atrx be highly expressed in giant cell surround wild - type 7.5 dpc embryo ( figure 5e ) .
to investigate whether the trophoblast defect be restrict to the production of secondary tgcs ( produce by diploid precursor in the ectoplacental cone and derive originally from the polar trophectoderm overlie the inner cell mass of the blastocyst ) or also affect the production of primary tgcs ( result from differentiation of the mural trophectoderm of the blastocyst ) , blastocyst ( 3.5 dpc ) from cross between atrxwt / flox female and gata1 - cre homozygous transgenic male ( atrxwt / y ; gata1 - cre + / + ) be culture in vitro for 5 d to monitor outgrowth of the primary trophoblast .
after 5 d , individual blastocyst culture be score for the extent of primary trophoblast outgrowth , and the atrx genotype and sex of the blastocyst be determine by pcr .
most blastocyst hatch from the zona pellucida within 24 h , and trophoblast cell spread out from the inner cell mass could usually be detect within 48 h of culture .
no difference be observe in the rate or extent of trophoblast outgrowth over 5 d of culture between atrxnull blastocyst ( atrxnull / y , n = 6 ) and blastocyst bear an atrxwt allele ( atrxwt / wt , n = 6 ; atrxwt / null , n = 6 ; atrxwt / y , n = 6 ) ( example show in figure 7d ) , suggest that the defect specifically involve the secondary giant cell compartment .
this be consistent with the observation that atrxnull conceptus implant successfully and survive to gastrulation .
take together , these data suggest that loss of atrx result in a defect in formation of the secondary trophoblast that be apparent from 7.5 dpc .
despite initiate normal organisation in the embryo proper , atrxnull conceptus exhibit a proliferative defect by 7.5 dpc and die by around 9.5 dpc , probably due to a nutritional deficit result from failure to develop a normal trophoblast .
escape from imprint inactivation of the paternally inherit atrxwt allele in extraembryonic tissue of carrier female mouse
female mouse carry an atrxnull allele ( atrxwt / null ; gata1 - cre + / − ) be detect at 9.5 dpc ( table 1 ) and recover at birth ( unpublished data ) , although at both time point the number of carrier female be low than that of wild - type ( atrxwt / wt ; gata1 - cre + / − ) female , suggest that a proportion of carrier female embryo die in utero .
survive adult carrier female mouse be not phenotypically normal and exhibit mild behavioural abnormality , although some could reproduce .
for all atrxwt / null carrier female embryo present in table 1 , the atrxwt allele be paternally derive , while the atrxnull allele be maternally derive .
in the mouse , x chromosome inactivation be subject to parental imprinting in the trophectoderm and primitive endoderm lineage that give rise to the extraembryonic tissue , result in inactivation of the paternal x chromosome ( xp ) [ 18 ] .
in contrast , in tissue of the embryo proper ( derive from the inner cell mass of the blastocyst ) x - inactivation be random [ 19 ] .
thus , in the extraembryonic compartment of atrxwt / null carrier female , normal imprint x - inactivation would be expect to result in silence of the paternally derive atrxwt allele , leave only the atrxnull allele on the active maternal x ( xm ) and thereby render the extraembryonic tissue null for full - length atrx protein .
however , the absence of atrx in the extraembryonic compartment be lethal in atrxnull / y male .
this suggest the possibility of an escape from imprint inactivation of the paternally derive atrxwt allele in the extraembryonic compartment of a proportion of carrier female embryo .
to investigate far , we cross homozygous atrxflox / flox female and homozygous gata1 - cre transgenic male ( atrxwt / y ; gata1 - cre + / + ) , which would be expect to yield only atrxnull male ( atrxnull / y ; gata1 - cre + / − ) and carrier female ( atrxwt / null ; gata1 - cre + / − ) .
in these carrier female , the atrxwt allele be paternally inherit .
embryo be dissect in their decidua at 7.5 dpc , and paraffin section be stain with anti-atrx antibody , along with section from a wild - type 7.5 dpc embryo for comparison ( figure 8 ) .
a describe above , atrx expression be detect in every cell in the epiblast ( embryo proper ) region of wild - type 7.5 dpc embryo ( figure 8b ) .
in contrast , the epiblast region of carrier female embryo be compose of a mosaic of small cluster of atrx - positive cell ( in which the atrxnull allele on xm have be inactivate ) and atrx - negative cell ( in which the atrxwt allele on xp have be inactivate ) , indicate that the atrx gene be subject to normal random x - inactivation in the epiblast .
remarkably , clear atrx expression could also be detect in the extraembryonic tissue of carrier female , a show in the extraembryonic - derive chorionic ectoderm ( figure 8c ) .
atrx expression could be detect in almost all cell of the chorionic ectoderm .
atrx expression be also clearly detect in other extraembryonic structure , include tgcs ( unpublished data ) .
escape from silencing of an xp - inherit atrxwt allele be also observe in the chorionic ectoderm of carrier female at 8.5 dpc ( figure s4 ) .
thus , although random x - inactivation occur normally within the epiblast , the atrxwt allele ( inherit on the xp chromosome ) escape the normal imprint x - inactivation in the extraembryonic compartment of some carrier female .
discussion
we investigate the role of the atrx protein in mouse development .
by use a conditional knockout approach , we ablate the full - length atrx protein first in e cell and embryoid body , and then in develop mouse embryo .
atrx in e cell
atrxnull e cell could not be recover by direct targeting and be eventually generate by adopt a conditional targeting approach .
this be consistent with our observation that atrx be highly expressed in e cell , and that the absence of full - length atrx impart a growth disadvantage relative to cell bear a functional atrx allele .
at present , the cause of the proliferative delay in atrxnull e cell be not known .
interestingly , we demonstrate that apoptosis be not significantly up - regulate in e cell lack atrx and be only mildly elevated in atrxnull 7.5 dpc mouse embryo .
in contrast , it be recently show that the loss of atrx markedly increase the apoptotic population in the differentiate cell of the embryonic cortex and postnatal hippocampus , when atrx expression be ablate in the develop mouse forebrain use the atrxflox allele describe here [ 20 ] .
the human atrx protein have be show to associate in a complex with daxx [ 8 ] , a protein that have be implicate in multiple pathway for the regulation of apoptosis [ 21 ] .
it be possible that disruption of the mouse atrx - daxx complex ( by ablation of the atrx protein ) could have trigger a universal proapoptotic response .
however , our observation in e cell demonstrate that the induction of apoptosis be not an automatic response trigger by the removal of atrx in all cell type , and suggest that the inappropriate apoptosis observe in the atrx - mutant forebrain may reflect a requirement for atrx during terminal differentiation .
an unexpected role for atrx in development of the mouse trophoblast
we show that atrxnull male mouse be not viable and embryo die by around 9.5 dpc .
before death , atrxnull embryo exhibit a markedly reduce mitotic index , suggest a proliferative defect .
although the embryonic compartment of the conceptus appear initially normal , by 7.5 dpc atrxnull embryo display abnormality in development of the trophoblast , include a depletion in the population of tgcs surround the conceptus and a reduction in the size of the ectoplacental cone , which contain the diploid giant cell precursor [ 22 ] .
tgcs be highly differentiate , postmitotic cell that ultimately form an epithelial layer at the periphery of the placenta , which interfaces with the maternal cell of the decidua [ 23 ] .
these highly invasive cell be important for mediate initial invasion of the uterine tissue , but be also involve in remodelling the maternal decidua after implantation and in secrete hormone that regulate fetal and maternal growth [ 24 ] .
since atrxnull embryo appear to implant normally , lethality be likely to arise due to a failure of tgc function later during development .
embryonic lethality in mouse in the absence of atrx be a surprising finding , a there have be no suggestion of foetal loss in the human atr - x syndrome .
it be possible that the role of atrx in the trophoblast be specific to mouse and that atrx have no role or be redundant in the human trophoblast .
indeed , the birth weight of baby with atr - x syndrome be usually normal .
an alternative explanation for the unexpectedly severe phenotype we observe in mouse be that the atrxδ18δneo deletion generate by cre recombination completely ablate full - length atrx protein ( figure 2e ) .
in contrast , all disease - cause mutation characterise in human atr - x pedigree appear to give rise to hypomorphic allele .
some full - length atrx protein be detect in case predict to have truncating mutation ( rjg , unpublished data ) , and residual atpase activity in atrx immunoprecipitates can be detect in epstein - barr virus - transform lymphocyte of all human patient analyse to date ( a. argentaro and m. mitson , unpublished data ) .
the failure to observe a truly null atrx allele among human patient strongly suggest that , a in the mouse , the complete absence of atrx protein be incompatible with human fetal survival .
while this study have reveal an unexpected role for atrx in the murine trophectoderm , a a result of the early lethality observe in atrxnull embryo it be not possible to rule out other role for atrx at late developmental stage in tissue of the embryo proper .
indeed , we show that atrx be highly expressed throughout the entire develop embryo at 7.5 dpc ( figure 5b ) , and it be likely that atrx function will turn out to be important for other differentiate tissue .
tetraploid aggregation experiment ( in which mutant embryo be rescue with wild - type extraembryonic tissue ) might shed more light on the role of atrx during late mouse development , but these issue can be more subtly dissect by combine the conditional atrxflox allele that we have generate with different tissue - specific cre transgene .
a mention above , this approach have already reveal a critical role for atrx during neuronal differentiation in adult mouse [ 20 ] .
further evidence that atrx be also require at late stage of mouse development be provide by the observe dramatic skewing against atrx - negative cell in some somatic tissue of carrier female mouse , whose tissue initially comprise a mosaic of atrx - positive and atrx - negative cell a a result of random x - inactivation ( m. muers , personal communication ) .
atrx join an expand list of mouse gene for which target disruption result in peri-implantation lethality a a result of trophoblast or placental abnormality ( review in [ 25 ] ) .
comparison with other phenotype might provide some insight into the role of atrx in trophoblast development .
atrx - mutant embryo progress far than embryo nullizygous for factor involve in the initial specification of trophoblast stem cell ( such a cdx2 ) or in stem cell maintenance and proliferation ( such a eomes ) .
cdx2 - mutant embryo fail to implant and die between 3.5 and 5.5 dpc [ 26 ] , while eomes - mutant blastocyst implant into the uterus , but arrest soon after implantation without form organise embryonic or extraembryonic structure [ 27 ] .
in contrast , atrx - mutant embryo implant successfully and establish organise embryonic structure by 7.5 dpc .
the atrx - mutant phenotype closely resemble that observe in mouse nullizygous for the basic helix - loop - helix transcription factor hand1 .
hand1 - mutant conceptus arrest at around 7.5 dpc and display a normal embryonic compartment , but , like atrx - mutant embryo , ablation of hand1 cause a reduction in the size of the ectoplacental cone and density of tgcs [ 28 ] .
a with atrx mutant , only arrest or resorb hand1 - mutant conceptus be recover after 8.5 dpc .
also like atrx , disruption of hand1 specifically affect secondary giant cell formation , and primary trophoblast outgrowth from blastocyst appear normal .
hand1 be require for terminal differentiation of secondary tgcs , and in it absence trophoblast cell arrest at a precursor stage in the ectoplacental cone [ 17 , 28 ] .
give the similarity of the atrx - and hand1 - mutant phenotype and the likelihood that atrx act a a transcriptional regulator by modify chromatin structure , it will be of interest to determine whether atrx be itself a regulator of hand1 expression , or alternatively whether it act a a co-regulator of one or more of the downstream transcriptional target of hand1 .
it be noteworthy that , in the brain - specific atrx knockout mouse , the defect be observe in terminally differentiate neuron [ 20 ] .
the secondary tgcs affect in the universal atrx knockout report here represent one of the first terminally differentiate tissue in the develop mouse , and this may point to the requirement for atrx in the high - level expression of some tissue - specific gene during the final stage of differentiation .
interestingly , the α - globin gene , the only confirm transcriptional target of regulation by human atrx , be also highly express specifically during terminal differentiation within the erythroid lineage .
atrx escape imprint x - inactivation in extraembryonic tissue of carrier female mouse
another surprising finding of this study be that , in carrier female embryo , a paternally inherit atrxwt allele appear to escape the process of imprint x - inactivation , which ordinarily silence the xp chromosome in the extraembryonic compartment of female murine tissue [ 18 ] .
silencing of the atrxwt allele on xp should render these female null for atrx in the extraembryonic tissue , since the normally active xm chromosome carry the atrxδ18δneo allele .
although not phenotypically normal , some atrx carrier female develop to term and go on to reproduce .
thus , the failure to correctly silence the paternally derive atrxwt allele in the extraembryonic tissue of carrier female be consistent with our observation that in atrxnull male , the atrx protein play an essential role in the development of the trophoblast and be necessary for survival in utero in the mouse .
the survival of atrx carrier female contrast with the phenotype see in carrier of mutation of other murine x - link gene know to be essential in the extraembryonic compartment .
for example , target disruption of the dyskerin ( dkc1 ) , glucose 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase ( g6pd ) , and choroideremia ( chm ) gene cause embryonic lethality in null male embryo through defect of the extraembryonic - derive tissue [ 29 – 31 ] .
female mouse carry mutation of these gene on the maternally inherit x chromosome also die in utero , whereas female that inherit the mutation on the xp chromosome survive .
thus , unlike atrx , these gene and / or their effect on cell growth be unable to circumvent the process that ultimately cause all cell in the extraembryonic tissue to express only the maternally derive x chromosome .
how might expression of the paternal atrxwt allele be maintain in the extraembryonic tissue of the atrx carrier female ?
one possibility be that , like some other x - linked gene , silencing of the atrx gene on xp be incomplete , such that there be always a low - level , leaky output of atrx from a normally inactivate xp chromosome in extraembryonic tissue .
however , it be recently demonstrate that the paternal atrx ( call xnp ) allele be completely silence in a normal mouse trophoblast stem cell line [ 32 ] , suggest that atrx do not normally escape imprint x - inactivation in the extraembryonic tissue of wild - type female .
thus , the expression of the xp - link atrxwt allele that we observe be unique to female carrier of the atrxnull allele .
perhaps a more likely explanation for this phenomenon stem from experimental observation suggest that imprint x - inactivation be not impose on all precursor of the mouse extraembryonic tissue : a subpopulation of cell may escape this process and make a random “ choice ” of which x chromosome will be inactivate .
on average , 50 % of the cell in this randomly inactivate subpopulation would be expect to maintain an active xp chromosome .
in support of this hypothesis , it have be demonstrate that expression of paternally transmit x - link lacz [ 33 , 34 ] and gfp [ 35 ] transgene fail to be silence in a small subpopulation of extraembryonic cell .
far , it have be show that in a subpopulation of extraembryonic cell , it be the xm rather than the xp that undergo late replication , a molecular correlate of the inactive state [ 18 , 36 ] .
although initially small and quickly dilute in normal embryo , the cellular subpopulation that inactivate the xm chromosome could rapidly expand to replace the normally imprint cell in extraembryonic lineage if the normal silencing of xp compromise cell growth or differentiation .
interestingly , it have be suggest that the size of the population that initially escape imprinting may range widely ( from 0 % to 30 % ) , even between genetically identical embryo [ 37 ] , and this may account for the variable phenotype observe among female bear xm - link mutant allele of gene essential for normal extraembryonic development [ 38 ] .
put simply , carrier female bear a small initial population of escape cell would be more severely affect than those bear a large population .
this could explain why we have observe significant phenotypic variation among atrx carrier female , with some carrier die in utero by 9.5 dpc ( table 1 ) and others develop to term .
another possible mechanism be that inactivation of the paternal x proceed normally in all cell , but subsequently the atrx gene within individual cell be reactivate .
alternatively , in the absence of atrx , the paternal allele may partially escape the normal process of silencing .
in both of these case , other gene on the paternal x chromosome must be inactivate and remain so , since block inactivation of the entire xp chromosome cause embryonic lethality due to biallelic expression of x - link gene in the trophoblast [ 39 ] .
summary
atr - x syndrome be the first human genetic disease know to be cause by mutation in a chromatin remodelling factor .
at present we do not know how atrx influence gene expression or what effect it have on cell behaviour .
nevertheless , we have previously note that none of the natural mutation cause atr - x syndrome be null , which suggest that it play a critical role in normal development .
result of conditional inactivation of atrx in the develop mouse forebrain , base on the atrxflox allele describe here , show that atrx exert a major effect on terminally differentiate neuron .
conditional inactivation of atrx in other tissue be underway .
here we have show that animal - wide disruption of the atrx gene cause a severe embryonic - lethal phenotype , reveal an essential role for atrx in the formation of the murine trophoblast .
in addition , atrx appear to escape imprint x - chromosome inactivation in the extraembryonic tissue of some carrier female mouse .
material and method
generation of e cell bear the atrxflox allele .
briefly , the targeting vector ( show in figure 2a ) place a loxp site within intron 18 and a loxp - flank mc1neopa selection cassette in intron 17 of the atrx gene .
a detail description of the targeting construct be provide in [ 20 ] .
linearise plasmid ( 150 μg ) be electroporated into 1 × 108 e14tg2a e cell , and colony resistant to g418 and ganciclovir be isolate .
homologous targeting event be identify by southern blot of ecori - digest dna and hybridisation with a 5 ′ probe ( generate with primer pps1.20 and pps1.27 ) and a 3 ′ probe ( a 0.9 - kb haeiii fragment ) a show in figure 2a and 2b .
dna from correctly target clone be also digest with saci and analyse by southern blot and hybridisation with a probe from within intron 17 ( a pcr product generate with primer pps1.15 and xnp46 ) to confirm that the loxp site within intron 18 have be include within the cross - over region ( figure 2a and 2c ) .
sequence of primer be show in table s1 .
cre - recombination and characterisation of atrxnull e cell and embryoid body .
e cell clone bear the atrxflox allele ( 1 × 107 cell ) be transiently transfected with 50 μg of uncut cre expression plasmid ( pcaggs - cre - irespuro ) [ 40 ] .
follow transfection , cell be plat at a range of clonal density in complete medium without g418 , and isolate subclones be pick after 7 d .
subclones be expand and analyse for the presence of a recombinant locus initially by pcr , to detect deletion of the mc1neopa cassette , and then by southern blot and hybridisation with the intron 17 probe describe above ( figure 2a and 2c ) .
northern blot be carry out accord to standard technique use 20 μg of total rna isolate use tri reagent ( sigma - aldrich , st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
the blot be hybridise with a probe from within exon 10 of the atrx gene ( generate with primer mxnp4 and mxnp28 [ table s1 ] ) .
after it be strip , the membrane be hybridise with a β - actin cdna probe ( clontech , palo alto , california , united state ) .
protein extraction and detection of atrx by western blotting be perform a describe previously [ 4 ] , use the mouse monoclonal anti-atrx antibody 23c [ 15 ] .
analysis of cell cycle and apoptosis be describe in protocol s1 .
methylation of rdna be analyse in dna from e cell clone or from embryoid body recover after 7 d of in vitro differentiation a describe previously [ 41 ] .
genomic dna be digest with methylation - sensitive restriction enzyme a describe and analyse by southern blotting .
the rib3 and rib4 probe ( which be amplify from human dna , but cross-react with the mouse rdna repeat ) have be describe previously [ 11 ] .
oligonucleotide probe to detect line 1 and sine b1 repeat have be describe previously [ 42 ] .
the minor satellite probe be a 27 - mer oligonucleotide ( mcent2 ) .
the major satellite probe be a 27 - mer oligonucleotide ( dg27 ) .
the iap probe be an ~ 400 bp pcr product ( primer 14a and 13k ) amplify from an iap insert into the mouse agouti gene [ 43 ] and be a gift from peter warnecke and tim bestor .
the pcr product include the entire 5 ′ ltr of the iap .
all oligonucleotide sequence be show in table s1 .
generation of chimera , floxed mouse , and mutant mouse .
target atrxflox e cell clone be inject into c57bl / 6 blastocyst and transfer into 2.5 dpc pseudopregnant recipient by standard technique .
result chimera be mat with c57bl / 6 to establish germline transmission .
offspring with the atrxflox allele be identify by southern blotting of saci - digest tail dna use the intron 17 probe a show in figure 2a and 2c .
for cre - recombination , atrxflox mouse be cross with gata1 - cre transgenic mouse a describe in the text .
recombinant allele be detect by southern blotting a describe above or by pcr a describe in protocol s1 .
immunohistochemistry , in situ hybridisation , and tunel assay .
7.5 dpc decidual swelling be dissect away from maternal tissue and fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde / pb overnight at 4 °c .
after embryo be wash thoroughly in pb , they be dehydrate through an ethanol series and xylene , embed in paraffin , and section at 5 μm .
section be process for immunohistochemistry use the abc staining system ( santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , california , united state ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
section be stain with rabbit polyclonal antibody against atrx ( h - 300 , santa cruz biotechnology ) , placental lactogen - i ( ab1288 , chemicon international , temecula , california , united state ) and phospho ( ser10 ) - histone h3 ( 06 – 570 , upstate biotechnology , waltham , massachusetts , united state ) .
where appropriate , adjacent section be stain with haematoxylin .
in some case , adjacent section be also analyse to detect apoptotic cell by tunel use the in situ cell death detection kit ( roche , basel , switzerland ) .
after labelling , these slide be mount in vectashield contain dapi ( vector laboratory , burlingame , california , united state ) and visualise by fluorescence microscopy .
whole - mount in situ hybridisation be perform on 8.5 dpc embryo ( dissect away from maternal and extraembryonic tissue ) use a brachyury ( t ) riboprobe [ 16 ] and on bisect decidual implantation site from which embryo ( 8.5 dpc ) have be remove use a placental lactogen - 1 ( pl - 1 ) riboprobe ( see protocol s1 for detail ) .
blastocyst outgrowth culture .
superovulated heterozygous female mouse ( atrxwt / flox ) be mat to homozygous gata1 - cre + / + transgenic male , and blastocyst be flush from uterine horn with m2 medium ( sigma ) at 3.5 dpc .
individual blastocyst be culture in multiwell tissue culture plate a describe previously [ 44 ] .
culture be inspect and photograph daily and the extent of outgrowth score .
after 7 d , culture be harvest and dna extract .
the atrx genotype and sex of each culture be determine by pcr a describe in protocol s1 .
support information
figure s1
cell cycle analysis of atrx - positive and atrxnull e cell
( a ) representative facs profile of brdu - pulse e cell bear either functional ( atrxwt or atrxflox ) or null ( atrxδ18δneo ) atrx allele show brdu - fitc ( y - axis , logarithmic scale ) against propidium iodide ( x - axis , linear scale ) .
the gate population show cell in g1 ( pilow , brdu - negative ) ( r1 ) , s ( brdu - positive ) ( r2 ) , and g2 / m ( pihi , brdu - negative ) ( r3 ) phase of the cell cycle .
below be show the quantitation of gate population , indicate the percentage of cell in g1 , s , and g2 / m cell - cycle phase in each culture .
( b ) facs profile of e cell bear either functional ( atrxwt or atrxflox ) or null ( atrxδ18δneo ) atrx allele stain for the mitosis marker phosphorylated ( ser10 ) histone h3 ( fitc , y - axis , logarithmic scale ) against propidium iodide ( x - axis , linear scale ) .
the size of the mitotic population ( phosphoh3s10 - positive , pihi ) ( gate r3 ) be indicate for each profile .
the e cell clone analyse in each trace be indicate .
( 3.2 mb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
analysis of apoptosis in atrx - positive and atrxnull e cell
facs analysis of e cell bear different atrx allele a show , after costaining for annexin v ( fitc , x - axis , logarithmic scale ) and propidium iodide ( y - axis , logarithmic scale ) .
the size of the early apoptotic ( annexin - positive , pilow ) and late apoptotic or necrotic ( annexin - positive , pihi ) population be indicate for each genotype .
( 223 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
normal dna methylation at mouse repetitive element in atrxnull e cell
dna from atrx - positive ( bear either an atrxwt or atrxflox allele ) or atrxnull ( bear the atrxδ18δneo allele ) e cell be digest with either a cpg - methylation - sensitive enzyme hpaii ( h ) or it methylation - insensitive isoschizomer mspi ( m ) a indicate , and digest dna be analyse by southern blotting .
membrane be hybridise with probe specific for the mouse line 1 ( a ) , sine b1 ( b ) , minor satellite ( c ) , and iap ( d ) repeat element .
no significant loss of cpg - methylation be observe at any of these repetitive element in atrxnull e cell .
a a positive control for loss of methylation , dna from e cell lack either the dnmt1 ( dnmt1 − / − ) or both the dnmt3a and dnmt3b ( dnmt3a3b − / − ) dna methyltransferases be include in the analysis of line 1 and sine b1 repeat .
loss of cpg - methylation be clearly observe at these repetitive element in these cell line .
( 1.8 mb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
escape from imprint inactivation in 8.5 dpc carrier female embryo
a cross be carry out between a carrier female ( atrxwt / null ) and wild - type male ( atrxwt / y ) , and embryo be dissect in their decidua at 8.5 dpc .
any carrier female progeny of this cross will carry an atrxwt allele on the xp chromosome and an atrxnull allele on the xm chromosome .
transverse paraffin section be stain with the anti-atrx antibody ( h - 300 ) .
( a ) high - magnification image ( 400 × ) of the neural fold region ( nf ) ( embryo proper ) of a carrier female ( atrxwt / null ) embryo .
this tissue be clearly comprise of a mosaic of atrx - positive and atrx - negative cell due to random x - inactivation .
this section be counterstained with haematoxylin .
( b ) high - magnification image ( 400 × ) of the same embryo depict in ( a ) , show the extraembryonic derive - chorionic ectoderm ( ce ) and visceral endoderm ( ve ) , two tissue that undergo imprint x - inactivation .
although atrx be poorly express in the visceral endoderm ( even in wild - type female [ unpublished data ] ) , strong expression of atrx can be see in the chorionic ectoderm , indicate that the paternally - derive atrxwt allele have escape inactivation in this tissue .
( 1.7 mb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
protocol s1
supplementary method
( 42 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
primer use in this study
( 20 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the online mendelian inheritance in man ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=omim ) accession number for atr - x syndrome be 301040 .
the geneid ( www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?db=gene ) for human atrx be 546 and for mouse atrx be 22589 .
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/ ) accession number for the minor satellite probe mcent2 be x14470 ( nucleotide 75 – 101 ) , for the major satellite probe dg27 be m25032 ( nucleotide 146 – 172 ) , and for the iap probe be l33247 .
acknowledgement
we would like to thank stu orkin for provide access to the gata1 - cre transgenic mouse , gillian morris - kay for advice , peter warnecke and tim bestor for the iap probe , en li for the dnmt knockout e cell , frank talamantes for the prsv - mpl - 1 plasmid , ann atzberger for assistance with flow cytometry , and deb bogani and terry hacker for assistance with whole - mount in situ hybridisation analysis and embryo sectioning .
abbreviation
brdu - bromodeoxyuridine
dpc - day postcoitus
e cell - embryonic stem cell
iap - intracisternal a particle
rdna - ribosomal dna
tgc - trophoblast giant cell
tunel - tdt - mediate dutp nick end labeling
wmish - whole - mount in situ hybridisation
figure and table
figure 1
schematic representation of the atrx isoforms
show at the top be the human atrx cdna .
the box represent the 36 exon .
the intron be not to scale .
the alternative splicing of exon 6 and 7 be indicate .
show underneath be the two atrx protein isoforms .
full - length atrx ( ~ 280 kda ) be encode by the large open reading frame .
the position of the principal feature ( the phd - like domain and the seven swi / snf - like motif ) be indicate .
above full - length atrx be show the truncate atrxt isoform ( apparent molecular weight of ~ 200 kda ) that arise through the failure to splice intron 11 and the use of an intronic poly ( a ) signal .
the intron - encode region of atrxt be indicate a a fill grey box .
location of recombinant protein ( a2 , fxnp5 , and h - 300 ) use to generate antibody be show .
the scale bar represent 200 amino acid .
figure 2
cre - mediate ablation of full - length atrx protein in e cell
( a ) strategy for target deletion of exon 18 of the atrx gene .
the top line show the wild - type allele ( atrxwt ) at the region surround exon 18 .
below be show the targeting vector and the target allele ( atrxflox ) result from homologous recombination .
the loxp target site of the cre recombinase be show a black triangle , and the three possible recombination event that can be mediate by the cre recombinase be indicate ( label a , b , and c in the atrxflox allele ) .
at bottom be show the cre - recombine allele ( atrxδ18δneo ) ( result from recombination event c ) in which both exon 18 and the mc1neopa selection cassette have be delete .
ecori ( label e ) and saci ( label s ) site present on the target 129 strain x chromosome be indicate .
black bar indicate the position of the probe use in southern blot .
( b ) southern blot analysis of ecori - digest dna from either wild - type e cell ( e14 ) or target e cell clone bear the atrxflox allele ( 1 / f12 and 1 / g11 ) hybridise with either the 20 / 27 ( left blot ) or hae0.9 ( right blot ) probe .
the ecori fragment of the atrxwt allele ( 18.5 kb ) have be replace with the expect fragment of 11.2 kb ( 20 / 27 probe ) or 8.5 kb ( hae0.9 probe )
( c ) southern blot analysis of saci - digest dna from either wild - type e cell ( e14 ) or target e cell clone bear the atrxflox allele ( 1 / f12 and 1 / g11 ) or cre - recombinant clone derive from these ( 1 / f12b1f12 and 1 / g11d5 ) .
the membrane be hybridise with the intron 17 probe indicate in ( a ) .
the expect band of 6.2 ( atrxwt ) , 5.0 ( atrxflox ) , and 2.8 ( atrxδ18δneo ) kb be observe .
( d ) northern blot analysis of rna from e cell show in ( c ) .
the membrane be hybridise first to a probe from exon 10 of the atrx gene ( top blot ) and subsequently to a β - actin cdna probe a loading control ( bottom blot ) .
the transcript responsible for full - length atrx ( ~ 10 kb ) and the truncate atrxt isoforms ( ~ 7 kb ) be indicate .
( e ) western blot analysis of whole - cell extract from the clone show in ( c ) use an anti-atrx monoclonal antibody ( 23c , raise against peptide a2 of the human atrx protein show in figure 1 ) .
the full - length and truncate atrx isoforms be indicate .
figure 3
growth and methylation defect in atrxnull e cell
( a ) culture be inoculate with equivalent number of e cell bear different atrx allele a indicate , and be serially passaged .
after the indicate day of coculture , dna extract from a sample of cell be analyse by southern blot to detect the atrx allele .
dna be digest with spei , and the membrane be hybridise with the 20 / 27 probe show in figure 2a .
the expect size of the different allele be indicate .
( b ) schematic diagram of the transcribe portion of the mouse rdna repeat with the 18 , 5.8s , and 28 gene indicate .
the position of the limit - digest enzyme bamh ( label b ) and ecori ( label e ) and the probe ( rib3 and rib4 ) use in the southern blot show in ( c ) be indicate .
below be show the location of the methylation - sensitive enzyme ( smai , pvui , and mlui ) whose methylation status have be analyse in the southern blot show in ( c ) .
( c ) dna from atrx - positive ( atrx + , bear either an atrxwt or atrxflox allele ) or atrxnull ( bear the atrxδ18δneo allele ) e cell and 7 - d embryoid body be digest with the enzyme show and analyse by southern blotting use the probe indicate .
arrow indicate the fully methylated copy ( cut by only the limit - digest enzyme ) .
phosphorimager quantitation of the blot be show below .
the y - axis show the percentage of copy that be undigested by the methylation - sensitive enzyme a a percentage of the total signal from cut and uncut rdna .
mean value be indicate by horizontal line , and the significance of the difference between the atrx - positive and atrxnull population be show for each enzyme .
figure 4
timing of onset of gata1 - cre expression and pcr genotyping of atrx allele
( a ) gata1 - cre + / + transgenic male be cross to female of the rosa26 reporter strain ( rosa26 + / − ) , and embryo be recover at 0.5 dpc ( ~ 16 - cell morula stage ) and stain with x - gal .
cre - mediate activation of the rosa26 β - galactosidase reporter allele be detect in all cell in embryo in which both allele be coinherited .
( b ) top gel : pcr genotyping of atrx allele in embryo use primer pps1.15 ( exon 17 ) and mxnp30 ( exon 20 ) a describe in protocol s1 .
the size of pcr product from the different allele be indicate .
both the atrxδ18 ( result from recombination event b in figure 2a ) and the atrxδ18δneo allele ( result from recombination event c in figure 2a ) be null for full - length atrx protein .
the bottom gel show product from a pcr reaction ( primer dg52 / dg53 ) use to sex embryo a describe in protocol s1 .
a 450 - bp pcr product be amplify from a mouse y chromosome - specific satellite repeat .
figure 5
morphology of atrxnull embryo at 7.5 dpc and 8.5 dpc
paraffin section of wild - type or atrxnull 7.5 dpc embryo ( dissect in their decidua ) be stain with haematoxylin ( a ) or with an anti-atrx antibody ( h - 300 , figure 1 ) ( b – e ) .
photomicrograph c – e show high magnification image ( 200 × ) of the stain section show in ( b ) ( 40 × ) .
scale bar represent 200 μm ( 40 × magnification ) or 40 μm ( 200 × magnification ) .
a , amnion ; ac , amniotic cavity ; c , chorion ; e , epiblast ; ec , ectoplacental cavity ; ecc , exocoelomic cavity ; ep , ectoplacental cone ; ne , neural ectoderm ; rm , reichert 's membrane ; tgc , trophoblast giant cell .
( f ) detection of brachyury ( t ) expression in atrxnull 8.5 dpc embryo ( head fold stage ) by wmish .
the genotype be determine by pcr ( a show in protocol s1 ) use dna extract from yolk sac .
hf , head fold ; n , emerge notochord ; p , primitive streak .
figure 6
analysis of apoptosis and mitosis in atrxnull embryo
( a ) paraffin section of wild - type or atrxnull 7.5 dpc embryo ( dissect in their decidua ) be analyse by tunel assay and apoptotic cell label with fluorescein - dutp .
section be counterstained with dapi .
( b ) paraffin section of wild - type or atrxnull 7.5 dpc embryo be stain with an antibody against the mitosis marker phosphorylated ( ser10 ) histone h3 .
section be counterstained with haematoxylin .
for both ( a ) and ( b ) , the presence or absence of atrx in each embryo be determine by stain adjacent section with the anti-atrx antibody ( h - 300 ) a in figure 5 ( unpublished data ) .
figure 7
trophectoderm defect in atrxnull embryo
( a ) 8.5 dpc embryo be dissect from surround decidual tissue and observe in whole mount .
the genotype of each ( indicate above ) be determine by pcr use dna extract from whole embryo after photography .
in the left image , the wild - type female ( three - somite stage , left ) be surround by trophoblast ( t ) while the trophoblast component surround the atrxnull male ( at headfold / presomite [ middle ] and two - somite stage [ right ] , respectively ) be severely deplete .
in the right image , the trophoblast have be dissect away from the embryonic region of the wild - type embryo , to reveal the small , abnormally shape ectoplacental cone ( epc ) of the mutant littermates .
( b ) wmish to detect expression of pl - 1 ( a marker of tgcs ) at the implantation site in vacate decidua that have contain 8.5 dpc wild - type ( atrxwt / wt ) or atrxnull ( atrxδ18δneo / y ) embryo .
the genotype be determine by pcr use dna extract from whole embryo .
tgcs be stain with pl - 1 .
( c ) paraffin section of wild - type or atrxnull 7.5 dpc embryo ( dissect in their decidua ) be stain with an anti-pl - 1 antibody .
the presence or absence of atrx in each embryo be determine by stain adjacent section with the anti-atrx antibody ( h - 300 ) a in figure 5 ( unpublished data ) .
( d ) example of 5 - d blastocyst outgrowth culture .
extensive trophoblast outgrow from the inner cell mass ( icm ) be observe in all genotype .
the atrx genotype and sex of the blastocyst indicate be determine by pcr .
figure 8
escape from imprint inactivation of the paternally inherit atrxwt allele in carrier female
paraffin section of wild - type ( atrxwt / y ) and carrier female ( atrxwt / null ) 7.5 dpc embryo ( dissect in their decidua ) be stain with the anti-atrx antibody ( h - 300 ) .
scale bar represent 200 μm ( 40 × magnification ) or 20 μm ( 400 × magnification ) .
( a ) stain section show whole embryo at 40 × magnification .
a , amnion ; c , chorion ; e , epiblast ; ep , ectoplacental cone .
( b ) high - magnification image ( 400 × ) of the epiblast region of the stain section show in ( a ) .
( c ) high - magnification image ( 400 × ) show the extraembryonic derive - chorionic ectoderm of the stain section show in ( a ) .
ce , chorionic ectoderm ; cm , chorionic mesoderm .
table 1
distribution of atrx genotype in time mating
footnote
author contribution .
dg , ajhs , wgw , drh , and rjg conceive and design the experiment .
dg , jas , ra , and rjg perform the experiment .
dg , ra , wgw , drh , and rjg analyse the data .
ld contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
ld provide technical assistance .
dg write the paper .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
funding .
this work be support by the medical research council of the united kingdom .
citation : garrick d , sharpe ja , arkell r , dobbie l , smith ajh , et al. ( 2006 ) loss of atrx affect trophoblast development and the pattern of x - inactivation in extraembryonic tissue .
plo genet 2 ( 4 ) : e58 .
doi : 10.1371/journal.pgen.0020058
additive effect of pdgf receptor β signaling pathway in vascular smooth muscle cell development
abstract
the platelet - derive growth factor β receptor ( pdgfrβ ) be know to activate many molecule involve in signal transduction and have be a paradigm for receptor tyrosine kinase signaling for many year .
we have seek to determine the role of individual signaling component downstream of this receptor in vivo by analyze an allelic series of tyrosine – phenylalanine mutation that prevent binding of specific signal transduction component .
here we show that the incidence of vascular smooth muscle cell / pericytes ( v / p ) , a pdgfrβ - dependent cell type , can be correlate to the amount of receptor express and the number of activated signal transduction pathway .
a decrease in either receptor expression level or disruption of multiple downstream signaling pathway lead to a significant reduction in v / p .
conversely , loss of rasgap binding lead to an increase in this same cell population , implicate a potential role for this effector in attenuate the pdgfrβ signal .
the combined in vivo and biochemical data suggest that the summation of pathway associate with the pdgfrβ signal transduction determine the expansion of develop v / p cell .
introduction
although signal transduction by receptor tyrosine kinase ( rtks ) have be study extensively , the role of individual signaling protein downstream of these receptor be a matter of debate .
some study have show that disruption of particular pathway lead to loss of specific cellular function ( valius and kazlauskas 1993 ) .
others have suggest that it be the sum of the signal that result in the unique cellular outcome direct by each receptor ( fambrough et al. 1999 ) .
yet others have demonstrate that the interpretation of receptor signal be determine by the distinct cellular history ( flores et al. 2000 ; halfon et al. 2000 ; xu et al. 2000 ) .
because many of these conclusion have be reach in diverse cell type and through the analysis of different rtks , it be difficult to determine whether result from one receptor system can be use to generalize the function of rtk signaling .
recently , several lab have dissect the role of rtk modular signaling component by generate point mutation in cytoplasmic domain of the receptor in mouse ( partanen et al. 1998 ; heuchel et al. 1999 ; blume - jensen et al. 2000 ; kissel et al. 2000 ; tallquist et al. 2000 ; klinghoffer et al. 2001 , 2002 ; maina et al. 2001 ) .
these study have reveal a unique requirement for individual signaling component in specific cell type ( partanen et al. 1998 ; blume - jensen et al. 2000 ; kissel et al. 2000 ; maina et al. 2001 ) .
in contrast , similar experiment on platelet - derive growth factor receptor α ( pdgfrα ) signaling mutant have demonstrate that phosphatidylinositol 3 ′ - kinase ( pi3k ) and src family kinase ( sfk ) signal transduction pathway play role in oligodendrocyte development ( klinghoffer et al. 2002 ) .
these experiment suggest that requirement for signal transduction vary not only by the receptor under consideration , but also by the cell lineage that be receive the signal .
the platelet - derive growth factor receptor β ( pdgfrβ ) have not only be study physiologically , but also have be the focus of intensive biochemical analysis .
upon ligand binding , the pdgfrβ dimerizes and be autophosphorylated on as many a 13 cytoplasmic tyrosine residue .
these phosphorylated tyrosine become bind site for sh2 domain - contain protein that initiate a number of signal transduction pathway ( review by claesson - welsh 1994 ; heldin et al. 1998 ) .
the pathway downstream of the pdgfrβ control multiple cellular function , include proliferation , migration , matrix deposition , and immediate early gene induction ( review by heldin and westermark 1999 ; betsholtz et al. 2001 ) .
at least ten distinct sh2 domain - contain protein can bind the phosphorylated pdgfrβ and activate downstream signal transduction cascade .
these molecule include sfk ( kypta et al. 1990 ) , pi3k ( kazlauskas and cooper 1990 ; kundra et al. 1994 ; wennstrom et al. 1994a , 1994b ) , shc ( yokote et al. 1994 ) , rasgap ( kaplan et al. 1990 ; kazlauskas et al. 1990 ) , signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stats ) ( vignais et al. 1996 ) , grb2 ( arvidsson et al. 1994 ) , grb7 ( yokote et al. 1996 ) , sh2 - contain phosphotyrosine phosphatase ( shp - 2 , also know a sh - ptp2 ) ( kazlauskas et al. 1993 ; lechleider et al. 1993 ) , phospholipase cγ ( plcγ ) ( meisenhelder et al. 1989 ; morrison et al. 1990 ) , and nck ( nishimura et al. 1993 ) .
while multiple downstream effect have be attribute to activation of these pathway , their relative importance downstream of the pdgfrβ have not be determine in vivo .
we have concentrate our present analysis on signal transduction by the pdgfrβ .
previous study use a null allele of the receptor have demonstrate that pdgfrβ signal transduction be require for a subset of vascular smooth muscle cell and pericytes ( v / p ) ( levéen et al. 1994 ; soriano 1994 ) .
these cell be the mesenchymal support cell that surround blood vessel ( review by hungerford and little 1999 ) .
brain pericytes , kidney mesangial cell , retinal mural cell , and limb and skin pericytes have all be recognize a pdgfrβ - dependent cell ( lindahl et al. 1997a , 1998 ; hellström et al. 1999 ; enge et al. 2002 ) .
study have indicate that the pdgfrβ be likely to play a key role in the proliferation , migration , or both of a progenitor population ( hellström et al. 1999 ) .
these result explain why defective pdgf signal transduction result in a reduction of the v / p cell lineage and ultimately in perinatal lethality due to vessel instability ( hellström et al. 2001 ) .
to examine the role of pi3k and plcγ downstream of the pdgfrβ , we have previously disrupt their bind site in the receptor 's cytoplasmic domain ( heuchel et al. 1999 ; tallquist et al. 2000 ) .
surprisingly , no overt phenotype be detect in homozygous mutant lack these two pathway , and deficiency be observe only when the animal be challenge physiologically .
to assess the role of the remain signal transduction pathway , we have create a pdgfrβ allelic series in mouse ( figure 1 ) .
we refer to this series a the f series because it contain y – f mutation at the known phosphorylated tyrosine residue .
use v / p cell number a a readout for pdgfrβ signal transduction , we have determine that the level of receptor express as well a the sum of signaling pathway induce by the pdgfrβ determine the number of v / p cell that form .
these result provide an example of rtk signal transduction quantitatively control cellular development .
result
generation of the allelic series
previous study of the pdgfrβ have reveal an essential role for this receptor in v / p development , but attempt to identify essential biochemical signal thus far have demonstrate that loss of certain signaling pathway only diminish pdgfrβ - drive response ( heuchel et al. 1999 ; tallquist et al. 2000 ) .
to study key signaling pathway , we have generate an allelic series of pdgfrβ mutant .
figure 1 illustrate the mutation that we have generate in the pdgfrβ locus and the signaling pathway that be disrupt by these mutation .
each mutant will be refer to by the number of tyrosine ( y ) that have be mutate .
for example , the mutation in the rasgap - bind site be the pdgfrβf1 / f1 or f1 / f1 mutant .
the truncation mutation of the pdgfrβ ( βt ) be create by the introduction of a frameshift and subsequent premature stop codon downstream of the rasgap - bind site .
figure 2 illustrate the target event that be use to generate the series of mutant .
the f1 - , f2 - , f3 - , f5 - , and βt - target mutation be generate by engineer y – f , y – i , or frameshift mutation in the same target vector ( figure 2a ) .
the f7 mutation be generate by target the f5 heterozygous embryonic stem ( e ) cell ( figure 2b ; see material and method ) .
cell that contain all mutation on the same allele , a determine by southern blotting , be use to generate the f7 line .
all mutant mouse be viable and fertile a homozygote except the truncation allele , βt , which lack the second half of the kinase domain and the shp - 2 - and plcγ - bind site .
base on a similar mutation in the pdgfrβ , we assume that this receptor be kinase deficient and incapable of induce dna synthesis , but it still should bind ligand and undergo receptor downregulation ( escobedo et al. 1988 ) .
embryo homozygous for the βt allele die perinatally with a phenotype identical to that of the pdgfrβ null embryo .
e18 embryo exhibit edema and hemorrhaging in multiple tissue , include the kidney , brain , and skin ( data not show ) .
these result suggest that pdgfrβ kinase activity be require for v / p development and that the receptor can not function in the absence of kinase activity , unlike another rtk , vascular endothelial cell growth factor receptor 1 ( hiratsuka et al. 1998 ) .
identification of v / p cell
we examine the blood vessel of f series homozygous mouse by histology and detect no gross abnormality ( data not show ) .
to obtain a more global perspective of v / p cell population , we introduce the xlacz4 transgenic marker into our f series mutant mouse .
the xlacz4 transgenic mouse express nuclear β - galactosidase in certain population of differentiated , nonproliferating v / p cell in the embryo and the adult ( tidhar et al. 2001 ) .
a describe below , use this marker in adult animal , we identify vascular defect in the f5 and f7 mouse in the tissue of the eye , heart , and brain ( see figure 7 , 8 , and 9 ; data not show ) .
this observation suggest that both the f5 and f7 allele function suboptimally in tissue know to require pdgfrβ signal transduction ( lindahl et al. 1997a ; hellström et al. 1999 ; enge et al. 2002 ) .
although both of these mutation cause notable phenotype in some v / p population , we have not observe pathology in all population of pdgfrβ - dependent v / p cell .
v / p cell population with no overt phenotype in the f5 and f7 mouse include the kidney mesangial cell and pericytes in the skin and skeletal muscle ( data not show ) .
we have observe a modest decrease in the number of nucleus present in f5 / f5 and f5 / − kidney glomerulus , but have not detect glomerulosclerosis with masson trichrome stain ( data not show ) .
the lack of any pathological phenotype in these tissue suggest either that the reduction in v / p cell be less severe than in the case of the pdgfrβ null mouse , that the pdgfrα may be coexpressed in these same tissue , or that these tissue can function adequately even with reduce v / p cell number .
because some population of v / p cell appear to be more dependent on pdgfrβ signal transduction than others , we reason that the pdgfrα might be coexpressed in the less - affect v / p population .
although pdgfrα have be report in a variety of mesenchymal cell lineage ( schatteman et al. 1992 ; lindahl et al. 1997b ; takakura et al. 1997 ; zhang et al. 1998 ; karlsson et al. 2000 ) , we want to determine whether any v / p population express the pdgfrα or whether it may be upregulated in any of the f series mouse .
we cross the pdgfrαgfp line of mouse , which express a nuclear - localize green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) under the control of the pdgfrα promoter ( hamilton et al. 2003 ) , with the f5 mutant mouse and compare the gfp expression pattern to the pattern of v / p cell in the kidney , eye , and brain ( figure 3 ; data not show ) .
we have use three independent marker to designate v / p cell : smooth muscle actin α ( αsma ) , desmin , and the xlacz4 transgene .
although pdgfrα - express cell be find in the same tissue a v / p cell marker , there be no overlap expression of gfp with any of the v / p cell marker in the artery or vein in the vessel of the eye and brain .
pdgfrα - express cell be also absent from the large vessel of the kidney , but a population of gfp+ cell be detect within the kidney glomerulus ( figure 3a ) .
these may be either kidney mesangial cell or vascular adventitial fibroblast .
both be population of cell that be know to express the pdgfrα ( seifert et al. 1998 ) .
these data indicate that pdgfrα be not express or upregulated in two of the most affected tissue of the mutant mouse , the eye and the brain , but could be function a a surrogate coreceptor with the pdgfrβ .
v / p development
to determine whether the reduction in v / p be cause by a gradual loss or a developmental defect , we examine pericyte population in wild - type and mutant embryo .
the xlacz4 mouse marker can be use to identify specific v / p cell population as early a e12.5 .
we choose to observe pericytes at e14.5 because at this timepoint v / p be abundant in wild - type animal in several tissue , include the develop spinal cord and intercostal vasculature .
figure 4 demonstrate whole - mount visualization of the v / p cell population in e14.5 wild - type embryo and the most severe f series mutant embryo ( f7 / − ) .
after examine several litter of f series mutant embryo bear the xlacz4 marker , it be clear that the entire panel of f series homozygous mutant embryo could be distinguish from wild - type embryo simply by the degree that blood vessel have acquire v / p ( data not show ) .
to obtain a quantitative view of these result , we choose to focus on the spinal cord pericyte population .
these cell begin to form at e10.5 in a rostral - to - caudal fashion in the embryo and require pdgfrβ signal for development ( levéen et al. 1994 ) .
cross-sections through the develop spinal cord ( neural tube ) provide a relatively uniform area for quantitation .
we can consistently identify a particular maturation stage of the develop vasculature base on it axial level within the embryo , and the pericytes can often be find a isolate cell ( figure 5 ) .
use the entire panel of pdgfrβ mutant mouse , we compare pericyte number between the different f series mutant ( figure 5 and 6 ) .
in all mutant examine , with the exception of the f1 mutation , we observe a decrease incidence of pericytes when compare to the wild - type embryo .
the reduction in pericyte number range from 42 % to 77 % .
this reduction be present at the more mature axial level of the heart as well a at the axial level of the kidney .
the f7 / f7 mutant embryo be the only embryo that exhibit a difference between the number of pericytes at the heart level versus the number at the level of the kidney .
all other mutant demonstrate similar number at both level , indicate that pericyte development be disrupt and do not reach homeostasis a the tissue mature .
because the f7 be the most severely affected allele , it be possible that the difference between the heart and kidney level be due to a developmental delay in v / p formation .
pericyte development may still be proceed at the level of the kidney in these embryo .
at the more mature level of the heart , the f7 / f7 pericyte population have reach a steady - state level and resemble v / p number more similar to those observe in the f5 / f5 embryo .
previously , chimeric analysis have demonstrate that pdgfrβ heterozygous cell do not contribute extensively to the smooth muscle cell compartment , suggest that heterozygous cell may have reduced v / p developmental potential ( crosby et al. 1998 ) .
to find out whether receptor level have any impact on v / p cell in our system , we cross animal bear the pdgfrβ null allele to our mutant series ( figure 5b and 6b ) .
we observe an even further reduction in pericyte level , result in a 70 % – 92 % decrease in pericytes when compare to wild - type embryo .
interestingly , even the pdgfrβ+ / − embryo , which exhibit a approximately 50 % reduction in pdgfrβ messenger rna ( soriano 1994 ) , demonstrate a nearly 40 % decrease in pericytes .
this result suggest that the quantity of receptor impact the number of pericytes .
another observation from this data be that even the f7 / − embryo can induce cell development at level great than the null .
in fact , the f7 / − animal survive , whereas the pdgfrβ null do not .
this be a rather surprising result give that most of the downstream signal transduction molecule that directly interact with the receptor have be dissociate .
while most of the f series allele demonstrate a decrease in v / p cell , the f1 allele result in an apparent increase in spinal cord pericytes .
although the increase be most pronounced when we compare the f1 hemizygote to the pdgfrβ heterozygote ( figure 6 ) , an increase be also observe when compare f1 / f1 embryo and wild - type embryo .
in fact , the level of pericytes in the f1 / − embryo be very similar to those in the wild - type .
these data demonstrate two interesting finding .
one be that rasgap may play a role in pdgfrβ signal attenuation and that loss of this pathway result in increased pdgfrβ signal .
the second be that v / p number may not be tightly control and that pdgfrβ signaling can result in more cell .
to determine whether the signaling pathway affect other v / p population in the same manner , we have examine the v / p population in the retina .
it have be show previously that pdgfb and pdgfrβ signaling control pericyte development in the eye ( benjamin et al. 1998 ; klinghoffer et al. 2001 ; enge et al. 2002 ) .
adult mouse transheterozygous for one null allele and one f5 or f7 allele exhibit severe eye defect .
these defect be first observe a an opacity and sometimes a visible hemorrhage in the eye ( figure 7a ) , a previously describe for pdgfrβ and pdgfb signaling mutant ( klinghoffer et al. 2001 ; enge et al. 2002 ) .
the f5 and f7 hemizygous mutant mouse possess few discontinuous blood vessel and overgrowth of retinal cell .
this phenotype occur with 100 % penetrance , but with variable severity ( figure 7c ) , and be detectable sometimes as early a 4 d after birth .
the presence of a pathological condition suggest that the f5 and f7 allele have compromised receptor function when compare to the wild - type , f1 , f2 , and f3 allele and demonstrate that retinal pericytes be also dependent on the pdgfrβ signaling pathway that we have disrupt .
to examine the retinal pericytes in the entire f series , we again use mouse bear the xlacz4 transgene .
at 4 wk of age the retinal vasculature be mature and can be isolate from the lens and pigmented epithelium for visualization .
figure 8 illustrate that homozygote for the f1 , f2 , and f3 mutant allele be indistinguishable from wild - type eye ; however , f5 / f5 and f7 / f7 eye exhibit reduced number of pericytes .
even without the ability to quantitate these difference , it be clear that the pdgfrβ+ / − , f5 / f5 , f7 / f7 , f5 / − , and f7 / − mutant retina have a reduction in v / p when compare to wild - type eye , reinforce the requirement for multiple pdgfrβ signal transduction pathway in v / p development .
a final tissue where we have examine v / p formation be the heart .
f2 and f3 homozygote and transheterozygotes be indistinguishable from wild - type and heterozygous heart , respectively .
consistent with our observation in the eye and the nervous system , the f5 and f7 mutant allele display abnormality in the vascular coating of their coronary artery and vein ( figure 9 ; data not show ) .
f5 / − and f7 / − mouse often exhibit a variety of heart abnormality , include enlarged ventricle , increased heart : body mass ratio , dilated atrium , and fibrosis ( data not show ) .
in contrast , the f1 / + mouse appear to have more extensive v / p coating on their coronary artery ( figure 9 ) .
in agreement with the data from the nervous system and the eye , the f5 and f7 mutant allele have a significant reduction in v / p cell .
take together , these result demonstrate several important finding for pdgfrβ signal transduction .
first , the number of pericytes form directly correlate with the number of signaling pathway transduce pdgfrβ activity .
second , a reduction in pericytes be observe even when only the amount of receptor be affect .
finally , although sh2 domain - contain protein impact v / p number , the intrinsic kinase activity of the receptor may play a role in transmit the pdgfrβ signal because the truncation mutation do not exhibit any rescue of v / p development , while the f7 mutant allele that transmit primarily through kinase activity ( owe to loss of the sh2 domain - contain protein - bind site ) still support v / p development sufficient for viability .
downstream signal transduction
because f2 , f3 , and f5 mutant receptor have be previously study biochemically ( valius and kazlauskas 1993 ; heuchel et al. 1999 ; tallquist et al. 2000 ) , we have focus our biochemical analysis on the f1 and f7 mutant receptor ' signal transduction to verify the effect of these particular mutation on downstream signal transduction cascade .
we have use mouse embryo fibroblast ( mefs ) for these analysis .
all line of mefs that we generate express the pdgfrβ at similar level ( figure 10d ) as well a the pdgfrα ( data not show ) .
to avoid stimulation of the pdgfrα by pdgfbb , we downregulated pdgfrα surface expression by pretreatment with pdgfaa 2 h before pdgfbb stimulation .
in all cell line examine , we observe an increase in tyrosine phosphorylation in response to ligand ( figure 10a ) .
the most evident phosphorylated band be around 200 kd , which be likely to be the pdgfrα and pdgfrβ .
although we have mutate seven of the 13 tyrosine , a significant amount of phosphorylation be observe in all cell line , albeit at low level in the f7 / − cell line ( figure 10a and 10b ) .
in the whole - cell lysate phosphotyrosine blot , the phosphorylated protein detect at 200 kd be likely cytoplasmic pdgfrα , a it be reduce in f7 cell after downregulation of the pdgfrα .
because we have disrupt only one of the potential src - bind site , we examine the level of src activation downstream of our f7 cell line ( figure 10b ) .
upon pdgfbb addition , there be an increase in the amount of src phosphorylated on tyrosine 418 ( a site whose phosphorylation be require for full catalytic activity ; johnson et al. 1996 ) .
in contrast , in the f7 / f7 mefs , we do not observe any increase in src activation .
these result be in agreement with other report that demonstrate that a mutation at amino acid 578 of the pdgfrβ be sufficient for reduce the level of src binding and activation ( mori et al. 1993 ; twamley et al. 1993 ; vaillancourt et al. 1995 ; fanger et al. 1997 ) .
two potential downstream target of pdgfrβ activation be activation of extracellular signal - relate kinase 1 and 2 ( erk1 / 2 ) and akt ( franke et al. 1995 ) .
a expect , phosphorylation of erk1 / 2 and akt be reduced or absent in the f7 homozygous and hemizygous mutant cell line , but cell express at least one copy of the wild - type receptor be capable of induce the activation of these downstream molecule ( figure 10c ) .
these data demonstrate that loss of seven tyrosine residue on the pdgfrβ result in a severe loss of downstream signal transduction .
in contrast , cell bear even just one copy of the f1 receptor show increase phosphorylation of erk1 / 2 .
these data be in concordance with the in vivo data , which show that lack of the rasgap - bind site on the receptor result in an increase in the downstream signaling event and a subsequent increase in v / p .
therefore , the f1 mutant receptor have increase activity while the f7 receptor have decrease activation of these same pathway , despite have apparently normal level of kinase activity .
discussion
rtk signal transduction play an important role in direct many cellular activity .
we have use an in vivo system to analyze how cellular development relate to the signaling pathway downstream of the pdgfrβ .
examination of the v / p population demonstrate a quantitative relationship between the extent that signal be be transduce and the number of v / p that form .
several other study have demonstrate that combination of signal transduction pathway may dictate cellular outcome .
example of these be t cell development in the immune system and gradient of morphogens in developmental system ( heemskerk and dinardo 1994 ; nellen et al. 1996 ; zecca et al. 1996 ; ferrell and machleder 1998 ; gong et al. 2001 ) .
in our system , the signal can be affect in two way .
the first be by the amount of receptor express at the cell surface .
v / p number be significantly low in pdgfrβ+ / − embryo when compare to wild - type control .
in this situation there be a decrease in overall signal , but no specific , directly associate pathway be disrupt .
this demonstrate a quantitative role for receptor activity .
the second influence on pdgfrβ signal transmission be by the number of associated sh2 domain - contain protein .
loss of even a single pathway result in reduction of v / p , and a the number of disrupt pathway increase , there be a concomitant decrease in v / p .
there be no significant difference between the f2 and the f3 mutant allele , but there be a noticeable difference when the number of mutation be far increase .
these signal difference a illustrate by v / p number and the presence of vascular pathology can be categorize in the mutant allele by the following hierarchy : f1 > wild - type > f2 = f3 > f5 > f7 > null .
in addition , hemizygotes show an even further reduction in v / p when compare to the f series homozygote .
this suggest that specific effector pathway may play more of a role in fine - tune pdgfrβ signal .
in total , our result demonstrate that pdgfrβ signal transduction be regulate not only by direct binding of signal transduction molecule , but also by receptor expression level , possibly reflect inherent kinase activity .
in addition , no particular signal pathway that we have analyze be absolutely require for transmission of pdgfrβ signal , because even the f7 allele have a phenotype less severe than the null .
in support of the observation that receptor level and kinase activity may have a direct role in signal transduction , we have observe that a chimeric pdgfr that have the extracellular domain of the pdgfrβ but the intracellular domain of the pdgfrα exhibit a more severe phenotype than the f5 allele ( klinghoffer et al. 2001 ) .
this chimeric receptor can signal through all of the same downstream component a the pdgfrβ except for rasgap , suggest that the more severe vascular defect in these chimeric receptor mouse may be due to reduced kinase activity and / or expression level of the chimeric receptor .
the pdgfrβ 's signaling pathway appear to dictate the absolute number of v / p that form , but how the individual pathway contribute to this phenotype remain to be test .
in fact , very little difference in number of v / p be observe between the f2 and the f3 mutant , suggest that plcγ signal may be somehow redundant with or dependent on the pi3k pathway .
in contrast , loss of additional pathway lead to an incremental loss of v / p .
the difference between the f3 and the f5 mutation be the ability to bind shp - 2 and rasgap , and it have be propose that both of these molecule play role in downregulating the pdgfrβ signal ( klinghoffer and kazlauskas 1995 ; ekman et al. 1999 ) .
our result demonstrate that loss of these signaling pathway be detrimental to pdgfrβ signal transduction and that both may have positive and negative influence on receptor activity .
there be several potential way that loss of these signaling pathway lead to v / p reduction .
one mechanism would be that each pathway contribute to a specific cellular outcome .
for example , sfk 's predominant role could be to promote proliferation ( roche et al. 1995 ; hansen et al. 1996 ) , whereas pi3k activity could be more important for migration ( kundra et al. 1994 ; wennstrom et al. 1994b ) .
therefore , the combined loss of these pathway result in a net reduction in v / p , albeit for entirely different cellular reason .
a second scenario would be that all pathway lead to a single or few specific cellular conclusion .
thus , loss of any one pathway only reduce the outcome but do not ablate it .
evidence from immediate - early gene expression analysis suggest that this mechanism may occur ( fambrough et al. 1999 ) , although this possibility do not require that all pathway contribute equally .
last , some pathway may play a primary role downstream of the receptor , while others may be more secondary .
our data suggest that pi3k may be a principal pathway , while the other pathway may be less significant .
the f2 / f2 mutant mouse have a significant reduction in v / p number when compare to the wild - type and the heterozygous mouse , and additional mutation have less of an effect than pi3k on v / p number .
a similar situation have be observe with the pdgfrα ( klinghoffer et al. 2002 ) : the phenotype of mouse embryo with loss of the pdgfrα – pi3k pathway be just as severe a that of embryo express a pdgfrα f7 allele ( which be similar to the f7 allele of the pdgfrβ ) .
the pathological difference observe between the f5 and f7 allele versus all of the other mutation suggest that shp - 2 , sfk , grb2 , and rasgap also impact pericyte development .
assess the importance of these pathway would require generate additional allele with different combination of mutant site .
the only signaling difference between the f3 mutation and the f5 mutation be the shp - 2 and rasgap pathway .
this suggest that one or both of these pathway promote pdgfrβ signaling , in contrast to the f1 mutation , which demonstrate that absence of rasgap lead to a potential increase of pdgfrβ signaling .
this apparent contradiction may indicate that rasgap play both a positive and a negative role in signal transduction or that shp - 2 may have mainly a positive role in modulate this response .
although we find that overall loss of downstream pathway attenuate receptor action a demonstrate by v / p formation , it be surprising that the f7 / f7 mouse do not phenocopy the null animal .
the f7 allele possess disruption at seven of the 13 known phosphorylated tyrosine residue .
these mutation should disrupt a majority of the signal relay molecule downstream of the receptor .
the remain tyrosine be capable of bind sfks , stats , and grbs .
base on several previous report , disruption of y578 affect the majority of sfk binding ( mori et al. 1993 ; twamley et al. 1993 ; vaillancourt et al. 1995 ; fanger et al. 1997 ) , and we have show that sfks do not become activated after stimulation of the f7 receptor .
a for the signaling role of stat and grb2 downstream of the receptor , little direct function have be demonstrate for these remain effector molecule in pdgf - induce cellular response ( heldin et al. 1998 ) .
therefore , f7 signal transmission must use some other mean than direct binding by sh2 domain - contain protein .
the receptor should still have full kinase activity , unlike the lethal βt mutation , which be lack half of the kinase domain and the shp - 2 - and plcγ - bind site .
possibly , the receptor be phosphorylating molecule that be only transiently associate .
another possibility be that other receptor may function a surrogate .
the most likely surrogate be the pdgfrα , but we have demonstrate that in several of the v / p cell population the pdgfrα be not express .
other candidate molecule for such a mechanism be integrins , ephrins , and the low - density lipoprotein receptor - relate protein lrp ( miyamoto et al. 1996 ; schneller et al. 1997 ; woodard et al. 1998 ; boucher et al. 2002 ; loukinova et al. 2002 ) .
although these protein be know to cross-talk with the pdgfrβ , it be unclear whether they have the capability to substitute for the pdgfrβ 's own signaling component .
the f1 mutant allele be an interesting corollary to the f mutant series .
while all of the other mutation appear to have a detrimental effect on pdgfrβ signal transduction , the f1 mutation result in an apparent increase in pdgfrβ activity a determine by v / p incidence .
these data be in agreement with previous observation that rasgap function decrease the ra / map kinase pathway activity and migration ( kundra et al. 1994 ; ekman et al. 1999 ) .
in addition , an add - back mutation of the rasgap - bind site induce a different gene profile from the pdgfrβ immediate - early gene profile ( fambrough et al. 1999 ) .
this suggest that rasgap may have different signaling capability from the other pdgfrβ signal transduction component .
the mutant mouse not only uncover the role of rtk signal transduction in vivo , but they also reveal some interesting information regard v / p cell development .
for example , although v / p cell development be impair when pdgfrβ signal transduction be disrupt , a basal level of cell form , in agreement with previous observation that propagation , not initiation , of v / p cell development be direct by the pdgfrβ ( lindahl et al. 1997a ; hellström et al. 1999 ) .
even in the null embryo , v / p cell can be find .
it have be propose that pdgfrβ signal be require for the expansion of v / p cell ( lindahl et al. 1998 ) .
while this may be the case , it be curious that in the f5 and f7 animal , the pericyte number never reach wild - type level , result in vascular pathology .
there be two explanation for the observation that v / p cell never reach wild - type level .
the first be that there be constant turnover in the v / p population and that the rate of replacement in the mutant mouse be below the rate of loss , result in a net reduction in the v / p population .
evidence against this mechanism be the failure to observe any significant proliferation in the adult wild - type animal under normal condition or significant apoptosis in the mutant panel of mouse ( data not show ) .
the second possibility be that there be a specific window during development when v / p cell can expand .
after a specified time , v / p cell number expansion could be limit , perhaps related to the ability of endothelial cell to secrete the pdgf ligand ( benjamin et al. 1998 ) .
support for this model be the inability of nascent endothelial tube to recruit v / p cell in tumor ( abramsson et al. 2002 ) .
the inability to develop sufficient number of v / p cell also appear to be recapitulate in the eye vasculature , suggest that the maturation of the vessel be more dependent on the local environment than on the chronological age of the embryo .
our finding demonstrate that the combination of signaling pathway downstream of pdgfrβ determine the total number of v / p cell .
these can be modulate not only by the amount of receptor express at the cell surface , but also by the number of specific downstream signaling pathway activate by the receptor .
whether these result be unique to pdgfrβ signal transduction in v / p cell or whether they can be extrapolate to other rtk remain to be demonstrate .
material and method
mouse
point mutation that disrupt the designated signal transduction pathway be generate by change the tyrosine residue to phenylalanine .
the exception be y1020 , which be mutate to encode an isoleucine , thus generate a unique restriction site that facilitate identification of homologous recombinant .
mouse mutant f2 and f3 have be previously describe ( heuchel et al. 1999 ; tallquist et al. 2000 ) .
the targeting vector for the f1 , f5 , and βt mutation utilize the same arm of homology a the f3 vector .
the exon contain the point mutation be introduce in the arm of homology of the targeting vector by site - direct mutagenesis and verify by sequence data of pcr - amplify genomic dna from homozygous mutant mouse .
the f7 mutation be generate by create a targeting vector that incorporate the 5 ′ arm of the f5 targeting vector with 5 ′ genomic sequence that include the exon contain the src - and grb2 - bind site .
tyrosine 578 and 715 be mutate to phenylalanine to disrupt src and grb2 binding , respectively .
this targeting vector be transfected into f5 heterozygous e cell and screen for homologous recombination .
the truncation mutation possess a frameshift at amino acid 780 , result in a premature stop codon after amino acid 801 , 11 amino acid downstream of the rasgap - bind site .
e cell colony be screen initially by pcr , and positive clone be far verify by southern blot analysis for the correct recombination at the 5 ′ and 3 ′ arm .
the pgk – neo cassette be remove by cross mouse to meox2cre ( tallquist and soriano 2000 ) and rosa26flper ( farley et al. 2000 ) deleters .
the majority of analysis have be carry out on a mix 129s4 × c57bl / 6 background , except where indicate .
the xlacz4 transgenic mouse ( tidhar et al. 2001 ) be kindly provide by moshe shani and cross into the f series .
we also cross the f5 and wild - type mouse to the pdgfrαgfp line ( hamilton et al. 2003 ) .
histology , immunohistochemistry , and pericyte quantitation
embryo and tissue be process and embed for section accord to standard protocol .
we have not examine the vasculature of all pdgfrβ - dependent tissue in the f series mutant animal .
those tissue not examine be lung , brown adipose tissue , and the adrenal gland .
immunohistochemistry
kidney be remove and fix for 20 min in 4 % paraformaldehyde , 200 μm section be then obtain by vibratome sectioning , and immunofluorescence be perform .
for eye immunohistochemistry , the pigment epithelium be remove from the mouse retina and fix for 10 min in 4 % paraformaldehyde .
retina and kidney slice be then block and subject to immunohistochemistry for the indicated v / p marker .
antibody be β - galactosidase ( 55976 ; cappel , costa mesa , california , united state ) , αsma ( 1a4 ; sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) , and desmin ( d33 ; dako cytomation , glostrup , denmark ) .
photograph be obtain on a zeiss axiophot microscope ( carl zeiss microimaging , thornwood , new york , united state ) .
pericyte quantitation
e14.5 embryo be divide into quarter at the follow level : head – neck , neck – liver , liver – kidney , and kidney – tail .
quarter be rinse with pb and fix for 20 min in 2 % formaldehyde , 0.2 % glutaraldehyde .
they be then wash three time in pb , stain overnight with x - gal , transfer to pb , photograph , post-fixed in 10 % formalin , and then process and embed .
section ( 7 μm ) be generate and x - gal - positive nucleus quantitated in the neural tube at the level of the heart and the kidney .
seven to ten sample be count for each level ; the mean of these data be represent in figure 6 .
pericytes surround the exterior of the neural tube be exclude from the sample .
positive nucleus be count at 20 × magnification and photograph at 10 × magnification on zeiss axiophot microscope .
retina be prepare in a similar manner .
the pigment epithelium be remove prior to the initial fixation step , and the lens be not remove until after the final fixation to maintain retina shape .
image be obtain on a nikon smz1000 with a coolpix 900 camera ( nikon corporation , tokyo , japan ) .
immunoprecipitation and western blot
mefs be generate from e9 - d - old or e14.5 - d - old embryo .
embryo be isolate , decapitate , and eviscerate .
the remain tissue be then treat with trypsin and plat .
cell be freeze down at passage 2 and 3 .
most experiment be complete on cell at passage 3 – 6 , except for the wild - type line , which be spontaneously immortalize .
cell be plat at 1 × 105 to 3 × 105 cell per well and starve for 48 h .
receptor downregulation be achieve by treat starved cell for 2 h with 100 ng / ml pdgfaa ( r & d ) .
cell be then stimulate with pdgfbb ( r & d ) for 5 min and lysed .
immunoprecipitation and western blot be execute a previously describe ( tallquist et al. 2000 ) .
antibody be obtain from the following source : pdgfrβ ( 06 - 498 ; upstate biotechnology , lake placid , new york , united state ) ; pdgfrα ( sc - 338 ; santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , california , united state ) ; akt ( 9272 ; cell signaling technology , beverly , massachusetts , united state ) ; phospho - akt ( 9271 ; cell signaling technology ) ; rasgap ( 05 - 178 ; upstate biotechnology ) ; grb2 ( 610111 ; bd transduction laboratory , san jose , california , united state ) ; erk1 / 2 ( 06 - 182 ; upstate biotechnology ) ; c - src ( src2 and sc - 18 ; santa cruz biotechnology ) ; phospho - src y418 ( 44 - 660 ; biosource international , camarillo , california , united state ) ; phospho - erk1 / 2 ( 9101 ; cell signaling technology ) ; plcγ ( 05 - 163 ; upstate biotechnology ) ; shp - 2 ( sc - 280 ; santa cruz biotechnology ) ; and phosphotyrosine ( 4g10 ) ( 05 - 321 ; upstate biotechnology ) .
pdgfrβ 97a ( kinase insert domain ) be a kind gift from andrius kazlauskas .
support information
accession number
the locuslink id number discuss in this paper be pdgfrα ( locus id 18595 ) and pdgfrβ ( locus id 18596 ) .
acknowledgement
we thank moshe shani for the xlacz4 transgenic line ; andrius kazlauskas for antibody ; elizabeth behler , philip corrin , triston dougall , jason frazier , and tara swamy for excellent technical support ; and our laboratory colleague for discussion and critical comment on the manuscript .
mdt be support in part by a fellowship from the american cancer society ( pf - 98 – 149 - 01 ) .
this work be support in part by research grant 0330351n from the american heart association and grant 5 - fy03 – 14 from the march of dime birth defect foundation to mdt and by grant hd24875 and hd25326 from the national institute of child health and human development to p .
abbreviation
erk - extracellular signal - relate kinase
e - embryonic stem
gfp - green fluorescent protein
map kinase - mitogen - activate protein kinase
mef - mouse embryonic fibroblast
pdgf - platelet - derive growth factor
pdgfr - platelet - derive growth factor receptor
pi3k - phosphatidylinositol 3 ′ - kinase
plcγ - phospholipase cγ
rtk - receptor tyrosine kinase
sfk - src family kinase
sh2 domain - src homology domain 2
shp - 2 - sh2 - contain phosphotyrosine phosphatase
αsma - smooth muscle actin α
stat - signal transducer and activator of transcription
v / p - vascular smooth muscle cell / pericyte
vsmc - vascular smooth muscle cell
figure and table
figure 1
pdgfrβ allelic series
this figure depict the mutant allele generate in the mouse pdgfrβ genomic locus .
x represent a mutation in the tyrosine - bind site ( s ) for a particular signal transduction molecule .
the f7 allele contain a disruption in one sfk - bind site because loss of both site result in diminish kinase activity ( mori et al. 1993 ) .
the truncation allele ( βt ) be create by deletion and subsequent frameshift that result in a stop codon 32 amino acid past the rasgap - bind site .
figure 2
targeting strategy and southern blot
( a ) target vector use to create f5 mutant allele .
two exon contain all five mutated tyrosine .
( b ) target vector contain mutation in 5 ′ exon use to generate the f7 mutant allele .
( c ) wild - type allele .
( d ) target allele with pgk – neo removal .
restriction enzyme abbreviation : sp , spei ; a , asp718 ; s , saci ; rv , ecorv ; h , hindiii ; x , xhoi ; and ri , ecori .
green box indicate probe use in southern blot for f7 - target e cell .
the blue arrow indicate the exon where point mutation cause frameshift in truncation mutation .
black box indicate wild - type exon .
red box indicate exon contain target mutation .
restriction enzyme in red indicate site introduce by mutagenesis to verify proper homologous recombination by southern blot .
circle denote frt site .
triangle denote loxp site .
( e ) southern blot result from various e cell line .
spei digest use p1 probe .
blot with p2 probe give expect result ( data not show ) .
lane 1 and 3 , f5 allele target .
lane 2 and 4 , wild - type allele target .
lane 5 and 7 , f5 mutant e cell after and before cre activity , respectively .
lane 6 , wild - type e cell clone .
figure 7
eye defect in f5 / − mouse
( a ) eye from a p4 f5 / − mouse demonstrate severe hemorrhaging .
( b and c ) h / e - stain sagittal section through eye of wild - type and f5 / − 3 - mo - old mouse , respectively .
the absence of the lens of the f5 / − eye be a histological defect and not a phenotype of the f5 / − eye .
l , lens ; r , retina .
figure 8
v / p population in p28 retina
whole - mount retinal preparation from wild - type and mutant eye .
pigmented epithelium be remove for visualization of β - galactosidase .
note f7 / f7 and f7 / − have extensive thickening of the retinal layer that result in a contraction of the entire retina and apparent reduction in size .
the far right panel show a close - up of the artery and vein of three homozygous eye .
figure 9
vascular smooth muscle cell of the coronary artery
( top ) whole - mount view of p21 heart from littermates of the f5 allele of mutant mouse .
heart be slice coronally , and the ventral surface be photograph .
the f5 / − heart be slice disproportionately and therefore appear to be small .
( bottom ) p28 heart from wild - type and f1 littermates .
heart be slice sagittally .
both the left and right view be show .
figure 3
tissue localization of v / p cell marker and pdgfrα expression
tissue preparation from p21 pdgfrαgfp / + ; pdgfrβf5 / f5 mutant mouse .
immunofluorescence be use to detect αsma ( a and b ) , desmin ( c ) , β - galactosidase ( d ) , and gfp expression for pdgfrα ( a – d ) .
( a ) kidney ( 200 μm vibratome section ) .
the arrow indicate glomerulus .
the asterisk indicate an arteriole .
( b – d ) retina ( whole - mount preparation ) .
arrowhead point to β - galactosidase - positive nucleus .
figure 4
reduction in v / p cell in the thoracic region of e14.5 embryo
ventral view of e14.5 wild - type and f7 / − littermates with the xlacz4 mouse marker background .
β - galactosidase - positive nucleus represent v / p cell .
th , thymus .
figure 5
pericytes within the e14.5 nervous system of f series mutant embryo
( a ) representative section through neural tube of embryo from the homozygous f allelic series .
( b ) representative section of embryo from the hemizygous allelic series ( f series mutant with one copy of the null allele ) .
section be from the rostral level between the heart and kidney .
pericytes be visualize by nuclear - localize β - galactosidase stain in cell commit to the v / p lineage .
section be 7 μm .
figure 6
quantitation of pericytes in nervous system
β - galactosidase - positive nucleus be count within the neural tube .
each datapoint represent a mean of seven to ten section from a single embryo .
data be gather at two rostral level in each embryo .
the genotype be order by the predict strength of the signal , depend on the number of copy of the receptor be express and the signal transduction pathway remain downstream of the receptor .
a two - tail student 's t - test be perform compare the number of spinal cord perictyes in mutant to those in wild - type , and all homozygous mutant and hemizygous mutant value be statistically different ( p < 0.005 ) from wild - type value .
the f1 / − be also statistically different from the pdgfrβ+ / − ( p < 0.001 ) .
figure 10
biochemistry of mefs from f7 and f1 mouse
( a ) whole - cell lysates be generate from mefs that be unstimulated or stimulate with pdgfaa and / or pdgfbb alone , 100 ng / ml and 30 ng / ml , respectively .
lysates be then subject to sd – page and western blot accomplish with the anti-phosphotyrosine antibody ( 4g10 ) .
( b ) immunoprecipitation of tyrosine - phosphorylated protein from wild - type and the f7 series of mutant mefs .
the precipitate be then run on sd – page , and a western blot be perform use anti-src [ py418 ] antibody and anti-pdgfrβ 97a .
( c ) whole - cell lysates from unstimulated or stimulated mefs .
lysates be then subject to sd – page and western blot accomplish with the indicated phosphorylated - specific antibody .
blot be strip and blot with antibody to the correspond unphosphorylated protein to demonstrate protein loading .
data be representative of multiple experiment from at least two independently derive cell line .
( d ) western blot of whole - cell lysates from 5 × 104 cell per lane blot with antibody to pdgfrβ ( 06 - 498 ) and erk a a loading control .
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
mdt and p conceive and design the experiment .
mdt and wjf perform the experiment .
mdt analyze the data .
mdt write the paper .
academic editor : roel nusse , stanford university school of medicine
ppar gamma 2 prevent lipotoxicity by control adipose tissue expandability and peripheral lipid metabolism
abstract
peroxisome proliferator activate receptor gamma 2 ( pparg2 ) be the nutritionally regulate isoform of pparg .
ablation of pparg2 in the ob / ob background , pparg2 − / − lepob / lepob ( poko mouse ) , result in decrease fat mass , severe insulin resistance , β - cell failure , and dyslipidaemia .
our result indicate that the pparg2 isoform play an important role , mediate adipose tissue expansion in response to positive energy balance .
lipidomic analysis suggest that pparg2 play an important antilipotoxic role when induce ectopically in liver and muscle by facilitate deposition of fat a relatively harmless triacylglycerol specie and thus prevent accumulation of reactive lipid specie .
our data also indicate that pparg2 may be require for the β - cell hypertrophic adaptive response to insulin resistance .
in summary , the pparg2 isoform prevent lipotoxicity by ( a ) promote adipose tissue expansion , ( b ) increase the lipid - buffer capacity of peripheral organ , and ( c ) facilitate the adaptive proliferative response of β - cell to insulin resistance .
author summary
it be know that obesity be link to type 2 diabetes , however how obesity cause insulin resistance and diabetes be not well understand .
some extremely obese people be not diabetic , while other less obese people develop severe insulin resistance and diabetes .
we believe diabetes occur when adipose tissue become “ full , ” and fat overflow into other organ such a liver , pancreas , and muscle , cause insulin resistance and diabetes .
peroxisome proliferator activate receptor gamma ( pparg ) be essential for the development of adipose tissue and control of insulin sensitivity .
pparg2 be the isoform of pparg regulate by nutrition .
here we investigate the role of pparg2 under condition of excess nutrient by remove the pparg2 isoform in genetically obese mouse , the poko mouse .
we report that remove pparg2 decrease adipose tissue 's capacity to expand and prevent the mouse from make as much fat a a normal obese mouse , despite eat similarly .
our study suggest that pparg play an important antitoxic role when it be induce in liver , muscle , and beta cell by facilitate deposition of fat a relatively harmless lipid and thus prevent accumulation of toxic lipid specie .
we also show that pparg2 may be involve in the adaptive response of beta cell to insulin resistance .
introduction
an adipocentric view of the metabolic syndrome ( m ) consider obesity a the major factor lead to insulin resistance in peripheral metabolic tissue .
however , the link between obesity and insulin resistance be complex , a indicate by the fact that some extremely obese people be glucose tolerant , while others with a mild degree of obesity develop severe insulin resistance and diabetes .
this suggest that the absolute amount of fat store may not be the most important factor determine the relationship between obesity and insulin resistance .
recent work show the complexity of the molecular mechanism control adipogenesis [ 1 , 2 ] suggest that adipose tissue expandability may be an important factor link obesity , insulin resistance , and associate comorbidities .
there be two mechanism that have be propose to explain how expansion of the adipose tissue store affect insulin sensitivity .
one mechanism suggest that increase adiposity induce a chronic inflammatory state characterize by increase cytokine production by adipocytes and / or from macrophage infiltrate adipose tissue .
cytokine produce by these adipocytes or macrophage may directly antagonise insulin signalling [ 3 , 4 ] .
a second nonexclusive hypothesis be lipotoxicity .
the lipotoxic hypothesis state that if the amount of fuel enter a tissue exceed it oxidative or storage capacity , toxic metabolite that inhibit insulin action be form [ 5 – 8 ] .
of particular relevance to this article , lipid metabolite , such a ceramides and diacylglycerol ( dag ) or reactive oxygen specie generate from hyperactive oxidative pathway , have be show to inhibit insulin signalling and to induce apoptosis [ 9 – 11 ] .
the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator activate receptor gamma ( pparg ) be critically require for adipogenesis and insulin sensitivity [ 12 – 15 ] .
there be two pparg isoforms , pparg1 and pparg2 .
pparg1 be express in many tissue and cell type , include white and brown adipose tissue , skeletal muscle , liver , pancreatic β - cell , macrophage , colon , bone , and placenta [ 16 ] .
under physiological condition , expression of pparg2 , the other splice variant , be restrict to white and brown adipose tissue [ 16 , 17 ] .
in adipose tissue pparg be the key regulator of adipogenesis .
pparg2 be the more adipogenic pparg isoform in vitro , it be also the isoform regulate transcriptionally by nutrition [ 17 – 20 ] .
although under physiological condition expression of pparg2 be limit to adipose tissue , we have show that pparg2 be ectopically induce in liver and skeletal muscle in response to overnutrition or genetic obesity [ 2 , 18 ] .
de novo expression of pparg2 in liver and muscle in obesity suggest that pparg2 may have a role in insulin resistance and lipotoxicity in these tissue .
little in vivo research into the metabolic role for the specific isoforms of pparg have be carry out , with the study so far focus almost exclusively on adipose tissue [ 2 , 13 , 21 , 22 ] .
pparg ( both isoforms ) deletion have be generate in most major metabolic tissue .
liver - specific deletion of both pparg isoforms cause an impairment in insulin sensitivity , particularly when challenge by different genetic background ( lipoatrophic or leptin - deficiency ) [ 23 , 24 ] .
the effect of ablate both pparg isoforms in muscle produce controversial result , with two group report different effect on insulin sensitivity [ 25 , 26 ] .
the role of pparg in pancreatic β - cell be unclear , primarily due to it low expression under physiological condition [ 27 – 29 ] and secondly because ablation of both pparg isoforms in β - cell do not result in a metabolic phenotype .
however pparg may play a role in β - cell hyperplasia in response to insulin resistance , an idea support by the fact that mouse that lack pparg in β - cell do not expand their β - cell mass in response to a high - fat diet [ 30 ] .
more recently , it have be show that heterozygous pparg - deficient mouse develop impair insulin secretion , which be associate with increase islet triacylglycerol ( tag ) content [ 31 ] .
here we investigate the physiological relevance of pparg2 under condition of positive energy balance by ablate pparg2 in ob / ob mouse .
we use a new approach that integrate traditional physiological phenotyping with advance lipidomic technology and transcriptomics .
our result indicate that in the context of positive energy balance , the absence of pparg2 result in a major metabolic failure .
furthermore , we provide evidence that control of adipose tissue expansion by pparg2 may be an important variable link positive energy balance to it metabolic complication include insulin resistance , β - cell failure , and dyslipidaemia .
similarly , our lipidomic result indicate that induction of pparg2 in nonadipose tissue should be consider a a physiological adaptation that prevent the toxic effect produce by excess nutrient .
this antilipotoxic effect of pparg2 be achieve by increase the lipid - buffer capacity of peripheral organ and facilitate β - cell hyperplasia in response to insulin resistance .
result
ablation of pparg2 in ob / ob mouse ( poko mouse ) prevent adipose tissue expansion in response to positive energy balance
pparg2 − / − lepob / lepob mouse with genetic ablation of the pparg2 isoform on the obese hyperphagic ob / ob background ( poko ) be generate .
mating of pparg2 + / − lepob / lep + mouse follow the expect mendelian distribution ( fisher 's test = 0.074 and 0.135 for male and female , respectively ) .
pparg1 gene expression in white adipose tissue ( wat ) from five - week - old poko mouse be similar to pparg2 ko mouse and be not significantly different from wild - type ( wt ) mouse ( figure s1 ) .
figure 1a show growth curve for male and female mouse of four genotype ( wt , pparg2 ko , ob / ob , and poko mouse ) over a 12 - week period .
at birth , the body weight of male and female poko mouse be indistinguishable from other genotype ( unpublished data ) .
the ob / ob mouse quickly become heavy than their wt littermates , with significantly elevate body weight by four and six week of age in female and male mouse , respectively .
however , the poko mouse do not become obese , and their body weight remain close to wt and pparg2 ko body weight mouse during the 12 - week study .
poko mouse be as hyperphagic ( figure 1b ) a the ob / ob mouse but drink far more water compare with ob / ob littermates ( 81.85 ± 15.14 versus 9.05 ± 2.32 ml / 70 h , p < 0.01 , female poko versus ob / ob , n = 4 at 20 wk ) ( figure s2a ) .
dual - energy x-ray absorptiometry analysis at 20 wk ( figure 1c ) confirm that female poko mouse have slightly increase fat content ( 4 % ) compare to wt and pparg2 ko mouse , but significantly reduce fat mass compare to the 40 % increase observe in ob / ob mouse .
at the age of 20 wk , poko and ob / ob mouse have a trend to a decrease total locomotor activity during dark and light cycle compare with the wt and pparg2 ko mouse over the 72 - h period .
however poko have similar total locomotor activity compare with ob / ob mouse ( figure s2b ) .
at six week of age , female poko mouse consume a similar amount of oxygen a ob / ob mouse ( vo2 = 25.06 ± 0.89 versus 23.10 ± 0.99 ml / kg bodyweight 0.75 / min , p = 0.07 poko versus ob / ob , n = 6 – 8 ) show a low respiratory exchange ratio ( 0.916 ± 0.011 versus 0.952 ± 0.007 , p = 0.01 , female poko versus ob / ob ) in the feed state , but similar respiratory exchange ratio in the fast state ( 0.73 ± 0.014 versus 0.75 ± 0.018 , p - value = 0.59 poko versus ob / ob mouse ) .
water intake be already significantly increase in poko compare to ob / ob mouse ( 13.59 ± 1.88 versus 8.15 ± 0.89 ml / d , p - value < 0.05 , poko versus ob / ob ) .
furthermore , level of glucose in urine be high in poko mouse compare with ob / ob mouse ( 403.4 ± 49.2 versus 34.13 ± 13.5 mmol / l , poko versus ob / ob mouse , p - value = 0.001 ) , show an energy loss of 15.43 ± 3.06 kj / d through urine compare with 0.70 ± 0.19 kj / d in ob / ob mouse .
at this age , poko mouse show similar locomotor activity compare with the ob / ob mouse during the day , but increase locomotor activity during the night ( figure s2c ) .
histomorphometric analysis of adipose tissue from 16 - wk - old male mouse reveal that poko mouse have few small adipocytes than the ob / ob mouse ( figure 1d and 1e ) .
this analysis of adipocyte size suggest that ablation of pparg2 in the ob / ob background impair the potential for adipocyte recruitment .
early insulin resistance in poko mouse independent of body weight
a expect the reduce adipose tissue expandability of the poko mouse be associate with severe insulin resistance .
surprisingly insulin resistance develop very early in life with elevate insulin level and blood glucose compare to ob / ob mouse ( table 1 ) .
we investigate whether peripheral insulin resistance and / or a severe defect in insulin secretion may cause hyperglycaemia in the poko mouse .
no difference in plasma glucose level be detect three to five day after birth amongst the four genotype for both gender ( unpublished data ) .
at weaning ( three week of age ) total body weight be indistinguishable amongst the four genotype , and blood glucose level be similar in male and female ( figure 2a ) .
however , by the age of four week , coincident with the change to a chow diet , male and female poko mouse develop severe hyperglycaemia compare to the other genotype .
insulin plasma level in the poko mouse at four week of age be increased compare to ob / ob mouse ( table 1 ) .
insulin resistance in poko mouse be confirm by an insulin tolerance test ( itt ) in four - week - old male and female mouse ( figure 2b ) .
furthermore insulin resistance in adipose tissue be demonstrate by the extremely low level of glucose transporter4 ( glut4 ) protein in poko adipose tissue when compare with glut4 level in adipose tissue from ob / ob mouse ( figure s3 ) .
of note , insulin resistance in the poko mouse be associate with hypertriglyceridaemia as early a four - week of age ( table 1 ) .
adult poko mouse be hyperglycaemic and have low plasma insulin level
give the early insulin resistance and hyperinsulinaemia in the young poko mouse , we expect to see increase insulin level in mature poko mouse .
at 16 week , male poko mouse exhibit severe hyperglycaemia in the fast and feed state compare to littermate control .
male poko mouse have inappropriately low level of insulin ( table 2 ) .
a similar , but mild phenotype be also observe in poko female mouse ( unpublished data ) .
of note , adult ob / ob mouse compensate for their insulin resistance with increase insulin level ( table 2 ) .
poko mouse also have hypertriglyceridaemia when compare to wt , ob / ob , or pparg2 ko mouse .
impair beta - cell function in the poko mouse
the inappropriately low insulin level in the adult poko mouse suggest a defect in β - cell .
insulin resistance in ob / ob mouse be compensate for by increase pancreatic insulin secretion , islet number , and size ( figure 3a ) .
however , despite be more insulin resistant than ob / ob mouse , poko mouse do not increase their β - cell mass , result in low plasma insulin level than the ob / ob control .
morphometric analysis of pancreatic section from 16 - week - old male mouse confirm that the islet - to - pancreas volume ratio be similar in the poko , wt , and pparg2 ko mouse ( 0.023 ± 0.005 , 0.013 ± 0.006 , and 0.016 ± 0.005 , respectively ) and markedly increase in ob / ob mouse ( 0.077 ± 0.017 , p < 0.01 ob / ob versus poko ) .
additionally , poko mouse have significantly decrease islet number and size ( average area of islet poko = 18.40 ± 2 mm2 ) compare to ob / ob mouse ( ob / ob = 61.59 ± 8 mm2 ) .
insulin staining demonstrate that islet from poko mouse contain few insulin - positive cell than islet from ob / ob mouse ( figure 3a ) .
the normal cellular organization of the islet , abundant β - cell ( insulin staining ) in the centre of the islet and a rim of α - cell at the periphery ( glucagon staining ) , be retain in the insulin resistant ob / ob mouse but be disrupt in the islet of poko mouse ( figure 3a ) .
islet from poko mouse have decrease number of insulin positive β - cell when compare to islet from ob / ob mouse and a scatter pattern of α - cell , which be morphological change associate with islet remodelling in the context of β - cell failure .
gene expression analysis of islet from 16 - week - old mouse reveal decrease expression of pancreatic duodenal homeobox - 1 , insulin receptor substrate 2 , glut2 , and insulin in islet from poko mouse when compare with those from wt or ob / ob ( figure s4 ) .
the change see in the β - cell of poko mouse be not the result of an inherent failure of the β - cell to develop properly a indicate by histological study of neonatal pancreas ( day 3 to day 5 ) ( unpublished data ) and four - week - old pancreas ( figure 2c ) , show no morphological difference in the size , number , or insulin staining of islet from poko mouse when compare to ob / ob control .
impair glucose - stimulate insulin secretion in poko mouse islet
we measure glucose - stimulate insulin secretion in 16 - week - old female poko mouse and their ob / ob littermates .
islet isolate from poko mouse be 30 % small than those from ob / ob mouse .
moreover , whereas normal islet be pure white with a smooth surface , islet from poko mouse be gray ; their surface be irregular and require less time for collagenase digestion ( only ten minute instead of 30 minute ) , suggest that they be also more fragile .
insulin content in islet from ob / ob mouse be more than 30-fold great than in those from poko mouse ( figure 3b ) .
insulin secretion from the islet of poko mouse be strikingly impair compare to those of ob / ob mouse , even when express relative to insulin content ( figure 3c ) .
this be observe under basal ( 1 mm glucose ) and stimulate ( 16 mm glucose , 16 mm glucose + tolbutamide ) release .
decrease steatosis in poko mouse compare to ob / ob mouse
a expect , the poko mouse have increase hepatic fat deposition compare to wt and pparg2 ko mouse ( table s1 ) , but surprisingly the poko mouse have much mild hepatosteatosis than the ob / ob mouse ( figure 3d ) , suggest that ectopic expression of the pparg2 isoform in the liver of ob / ob mouse ( see below ) , might contribute to the deposition of tag in the liver .
ablation of pparg2 induce a lipotoxic lipid profile in adipose tissue , pancreatic islet , liver , and skeletal muscle
to investigate lipotoxicity a a potential pathogenic mechanism we use liquid chromatography / mass spectrometry ( lc / m ) [ 32 ] to compare a broad spectrum of cellular lipid in the adipose tissue , pancreatic islet , liver , and skeletal muscle between the poko mouse and control ( protocol s1 ) .
adipose tissue from poko mouse have decrease tag but increase dag , ceramides , and other reactive lipid specie associate with insulin resistance .
lipidomic analysis use lc / m identify 74 molecular specie differentially present in poko , ob / ob , and wt mouse ( protocol s1 ) .
poko adipose tissue have decrease short chain tag compare to ob / ob adipose tissue ( protocol s1 ) .
conversely , the concentration of dag be increase in the wat of the poko mouse compare to ob / ob littermates .
there be also an increase concentration of reactive lipid specie in the wat of poko mouse compare to that of ob / ob .
the wat of both poko and ob / ob mouse ( protocol s1 ) have increase level of two ceramide specie ( with 16 : 0 and 24 : 1 fatty acid chain , respectively ) and three proinflammatory lysophosphatidylcholine specie [ 33 ] compare to wt mouse .
partial least square discriminant analysis indicate these change in ceramides be great in the poko than ob / ob mouse ( protocol s1 ) .
sphingomyelin ( d18 : 1 / 16 : 0 ) , the precursor of ceramide ( d18 : 1 / 16 : 0 ) and antioxidant ethanolamine plasmalogen ( 36 : 1 ) [ 34 ] be markedly decrease in poko and ob / ob mouse ( figure 4a ) .
decrease tag and accumulation of reactive lipid specie in islet from poko mouse .
partial least - square discriminant analysis of lipidomic profile of isolate pancreatic islet of 16 - week - old mouse identify 44 lipid specie accumulate at different concentration in wt , pparg2 ko , and poko mouse ( protocol s1 ) .
short chain tag be decrease in islet from poko and pparg2 ko mouse when compare to those from wt .
this be associate with up - regulation of phosphatidylethanolamine ( 36 : 2 ) , down - regulation of ethanolamine plasmalogen ( 36 : 2 ) , and preferential accumulation of reactive lipid specie , particularly of two ceramides ( 20 : 0 and 22 : 0 fatty acid ) in islet from poko mouse ( figure 5a and protocol s1 ) .
decrease tag and increase reactive lipid specie in liver of poko mouse .
multivariate analysis of lipidomic profile ( 192 lipid specie ) reveal large change between the poko , pparg2 ko , ob / ob , and wt genotype ( protocol s1 ) .
these include decrease level of short and medium chain tag and dag ( figure 5b ) in liver from poko mouse compare to those of ob / ob mouse .
liver from poko mouse also have decrease level of phosphatidylcholine lipid specie ( protocol s1 ) utilise during the formation and secretion of very low density lipoprotein [ 35 ] .
conversely , poko liver be enrich in ceramides compare to ob / ob liver , which correlate with the extent of increase level of lysophosphatidylcholines in poko and ob / ob mouse ( protocol s1 ) .
decrease tag and accumulation of reactive lipid specie in poko skeletal muscle .
the same lipidomic pattern of decrease tag and increase reactive lipid specie previously observe in adipose tissue , β - cell , and liver be find to a mild degree in the skeletal muscle of poko mouse ( protocol s1 ) .
briefly , when compare to ob / ob skeletal muscle , poko skeletal muscle show a decrease in very short - chain fatty acid tag and a slight decrease in level of medium and long chain tag ( protocol s1 ) .
the skeletal muscle of poko mouse also have increase reactive lipid include ceramide ( d18 : 1 / 18 : 0 ) , dag , lysophosphatidylcholines , and sphingomyelins ( precursor of ceramides ) when compare to that of ob / ob mouse .
transcriptomic analysis in poko mouse correlate with lipidomic change
give the lipotoxic profile identify in the poko mouse , we hypothesise change in the expression of metabolic gene directly relate to pparg2 ablation and also compensatory change in gene associate with cellular stress ( table s4 ) .
gene expression analysis in wat .
target gene of pparg such a glut4 , adipsin , ap2 , and adiponectin be decrease to a large extent in the wat of five - and 16 - week - old poko mouse than in pparg2 ko mouse ( figure s1 and figure 4b ) .
at five week of age , when difference in body fat between female wt , ob / ob , and poko mouse be only start to become evident , level of glut4 , ap2 , and adiponectin mrna level be similar in wt and ob / ob mouse , yet be markedly decrease in poko mouse .
a the ob / ob mouse age ( 16 wk ) and become obese and insulin resistant , the expression pattern of these pparg target in the wat of ob / ob mouse become similar to that of the poko mouse .
result from the lipidomic analysis suggest major change in the expression of gene involve in lipid metabolism ( figure 4b ) .
expression of stearoyl - coenzyme a desaturase 1 ( scd1 ) and sterol regulatory element - bind protein - 1c ( srebp1c ) be significantly low in wat from poko mouse compare to ob / ob mouse .
furthermore , the decrease in tag and increase dag correlate with decrease expression of dag acyltransferase 2 , a key enzyme catalyse the final step in tag synthesis , in the wat of poko mouse compare with wat from ob / ob mouse .
again support the lipidomic profile , the expression of hormone - sensitive lipase , a rate - limit enzyme for hydrolysis of diacylglycerides , be decrease in the wat of poko , pparg2 ko , and ob / ob mouse compare with wt mouse , with the low level observe in the poko mouse .
adipose triglyceride lipase level be decrease in ob / ob and poko compare with wt and pparg2 ko mouse , but without significant difference between ob / ob and poko mouse .
oxidative stress have recently be suggest a a common mechanism of insulin resistance .
adipose tissue from poko mouse have increase oxidative stress compare to that of ob / ob mouse a indicate by decrease gene expression level of extracellular cuzn - superoxide dismutase , disruption of the glutathione pathway a indicate by decrease level of gluthatione synthase , and increase level of peroxidase and several gluthatione transferase ( table s2 ) .
we examine macrophage infiltration of adipose tissue a a potential marker of inflammation associate insulin resistance .
expression of cd68 and f4 / 80 , both macrophage marker , be increase in the wat of both poko and ob / ob mouse compare with wt and pparg2 ko mouse ( figure 4b ) .
however their expression level be low in the poko mouse than the ob / ob mouse suggest that macrophage infiltration be not directly related to the exacerbated insulin resistance of the poko mouse compare to the ob / ob mouse .
gene expression in the poko liver .
reduce hepatic steatosis accompany by alter lipid profile suggest that lack of hepatic ectopic expression of pparg2 might be affect lipid storage and metabolism in the liver of the poko mouse .
expression of gene involve in lipid metabolism in liver ( figure 5c ) reveal that , proportional to the accumulation of tag in the liver , fatty acid synthase , scd1 , and the fatty acid translocase ( fat / cd36 ) be increase in ob / ob and poko liver compare to wt mouse and be significantly decrease in liver from poko mouse compare with liver from ob / ob mouse .
other lipogenic pparg target gene such a lpl be also decrease in the poko liver compare to the ob / ob mouse .
the ob / ob mouse also have a compensatory increase in the expression of gene involve in β - oxidation ( e.g. , pparg , lcad , aox , cpt1 , and ucp2 ) .
interestingly expression of these pro-oxidative gene be decrease in the liver of poko mouse when compare to that of ob / ob mouse suggest pparg2 may contribute to their regulation [ 36 ] .
although β - cell failure could account for the severe hyperglycaemia observe in the poko genotype , hepatic gluconeogenesis function might be affect .
we observe a robust up - regulation of pparg coactivator 1 alpha ( ppargc1a , also know a pgc1a ) expression in the poko liver compare with the wt and ob / ob mouse .
ppargc1a be up - regulate in fasting and be think to induce gluconeogenesis [ 37 ] .
in parallel with the increase in ppargc1a , microarray analysis reveal increase mrna level of the progluconeogenic gene phosphoenolpyruvate carboxykinase 1 ( pepck1 ) and glucose - 6 - phosphatase ( g6pc ) in the liver of poko mouse when compare to those of ob / ob mouse ( table s2 ) , suggest hepatic gluconeogenesis may contribute to the hyperglycaemia observe in poko mouse .
gene expression analysis in skeletal muscle of poko mouse .
in 16 - week - old poko - mouse skeletal muscle we observe down - regulation of srebp1c and ppargc1a and up - regulation of ucp2 expression in skeletal muscle from poko mouse compare to that of wt mouse .
similarly , expression of lpl and scd1 be down - regulate in the skeletal muscle of poko mouse when compare with that from ob / ob mouse ( figure s5 ; table s2 ) .
gene set enrichment analysis of microarray data show decrease expression of oxidative phosphorylation and mitochondrial component include electron transport chain complex component , in skeletal muscle from poko mouse when compare with that from ob / ob mouse ( table s3 ) .
discussion
the link between obesity , insulin resistance , and diabetes while epidemiologically very clear be still not properly understand at a mechanistic level .
an emerge concept be that the absolute amount of fat store may be less important than the remain storage capacity of the adipose tissue .
here we show that the pparg2 isoform may be an important factor control obesity - induce comorbidities through two mechanism : ( a ) by regulate nutritionally induce adipose tissue expandability and ( b ) when de novo express in nonadipose tissue , by allow the storage of energy in the form of relatively harmless tag specie .
previously we describe the metabolic phenotype of the adult pparg2 ko mouse [ 2 ] , characterise by mild insulin resistance observe only in male .
give the great adipogenic potency of pparg2 compare with pparg1 in vitro , we expect pparg2 ko mouse to have many more severe defect in adipose tissue than we observe , and therefore insulin sensitivity .
a pparg2 be the pparg isoform regulate in response to nutrition and obesity [ 17 – 20 ] , we hypothesise that pparg2 would only become essential for adipose tissue function in the face of positive energy balance .
the metabolic challenge we opt for be pparg2 ablation in the obese ( ob / ob ) background ( pparg2 − / − lepob / lepob , poko mouse ) .
the poko mouse have severely decrease body - fat mass due to impair adipose tissue expandability .
despite eat as much a an ob / ob mouse and expend a similar amount of energy , the poko mouse be unable to store fat efficiently in it adipose tissue .
this mismatch between increase energy availability and lack of adipose tissue expandability lead to a global metabolic failure characterise by severe insulin resistance , β - cell failure , and dyslipidaemia .
the observation of reduce fat mass and increase insulin resistance in the poko mouse compare to the ob / ob mouse strongly support two of our hypothesis .
first , we hypothesise that pparg2 be require to recruit new adipocytes in overnutrition , but it be not require to make adipocytes during development .
this be reflect by similar expression of ap2 , a late marker of adipocyte differentiation , in poko and ob / ob mouse .
the absence of small adipocytes be markedly different to other form of lipodystrophy [ 38 , 39 ] .
additionally , and again in contrast with other lipodystrophic model that have markedly less adipose tissue than wt control [ 38 – 40 ] , the poko mouse have a percentage body fat that be similar ( only 4 % more ) to wt and pparg2 ko mouse , a oppose to ob / ob mouse , which have 40 % fat a a proportion of body mass .
this suggest that the remain pparg1 isoform be sufficient to support development of adipose tissue and fat deposition requirement of a lean mouse model .
however , under condition of positive energy balance , adipose tissue expandability mainly rely on the pparg2 isoform .
this idea be also suggest by the study in heterozygous mouse harbour the murine equivalent of the human mutation ( p465l ) in pparg on an ob / ob background [ 41 ] .
these mouse be able to accumulate fat and become obese even though show a body mass 14 % low than ob / ob control .
in human there be also evidence for a role for pparg2 .
we have observe that metabolically healthy , nondiabetic , morbidly obese individual have elevate level of pparg2 in their adipose tissue when compare to lean individual [ 19 ] .
our second hypothesis , that the mismatch between energy availability and adipose tissue expandability be more important than fat mass itself a a predictor of insulin resistance , be also support by our data .
in fact the ob / ob mouse be much more obese than the poko mouse but be much less insulin resistant .
furthermore , the poko mouse be already more insulin resistant than the ob / ob mouse by the age of four week , with very low level of glut4 in adipose tissue , before large difference in body weight develop , suggest that the bioenergetic mismatch rather than the total amount of fat store be important for the development of insulin resistance .
although we hypothesise that the poko mouse would become insulin resistant , the degree of hyperglycaemia in these animal be in excess of what we expect .
we find that the normal adaptive response of β - cell to insulin resistance do not occur in the poko mouse a indicate by the pathological change observe by histology and the lack of β - cell hypertrophy .
although it have be show that genetic background can affect the ability of ob / ob mouse to undergo β - cell hypertrophy [ 42 , 43 ] , we find that the ob / ob control on our mixed 129sv × c57bl / 6j background undergo adaptive β - cell hyperplasia and hypertrophy , suggest that the lack of pparg2 be responsible for the failure of the poko β - cell to adapt to insulin resistance .
interestingly the mass of pancreatic islet in poko mouse remain similar to the noninsulin resistant wt and pparg2 ko mouse .
furthermore , these defect in poko β - cell do not appear to be the result of a developmental defect , a new born and four - week - old mouse have morphologically normal islet .
the severe β - cell phenotype of the poko mouse contrast with the absence of hyperglycaemia observe in the pancreatic β - cell specific pparg ko mouse [ 30 ] .
however it should be keep in mind that in the β - cell specific pparg ko mouse , the expression of pparg and the lipid storage capacity of other tissue , most importantly adipose tissue , be not affect , and that insulin sensitivity be only mildly affect by high fat feeding in these mouse when compare to the severe insulin resistance observe in poko mouse .
therefore the challenge to the pancreatic β - cell in this model be mild than in poko mouse .
this be a clear example of how tissue - specific genetic manipulation be not always the best approach to understand the physiology of an organ in the context of the global energy homeostasis .
the potential importance of the de novo expression of pparg2 isoform in β - cell be also support by the observation that human harbour the pro12ala mutation in pparg2 , a mutation that be locate in the g2 isoform and make pparg2 less active , have only be associate with insulin deficiency and disease severity in obese individual with type 2 diabetes [ 44 ] .
the liver of the poko mouse also display an unusual phenotype .
we expect the poko mouse to have bad hepatosteatosis with increase triglyceride deposition in liver compare to ob / ob mouse , because the poko mouse could not store fat in adipose tissue .
however poko mouse have less hepatosteatosis than ob / ob mouse suggest that the pparg2 isoform may directly contribute to facilitate triglyceride deposition in the liver .
a common mechanistic link for the phenotype observe in the poko liver and β - cell be not immediately obvious .
to try to determine the role of pparg2 in these location we perform lipidomic and gene expression analysis of the adipose tissue , pancreatic islet , liver , and skeletal muscle of the poko mouse .
the lipid pattern of adipose tissue from poko mouse be characterise by decrease tag and increase dag in parallel with decrease gene expression of dgat2 , hormone - sensitive lipase , and adipose triglyceride lipase .
this decrease in tag in the poko adipose tissue be associate with increase level of reactive lipid specie and a gene expression profile suggestive of increase oxidative stress [ 45 – 49 ] .
although it have be describe that oxidative stress and insulin resistance may be relate to infiltration of adipose tissue by macrophage , result in a chronic state of inflammation [ 50 – 52 ] , we do not observe increase macrophage infiltration in the adipose tissue of poko mouse compare to that of ob / ob mouse .
lipidomic analysis of poko derive islet also show decrease level of triacyl and dag and increase level of ceramides , suggest that pparg2 may contribute to increase the lipid - buffer capacity of β - cell by promote formation of tag and thus prevent lipotoxic insult .
liver and skeletal muscle lipidomics also show reduce tag and increase formation of reactive lipid specie such a ceramides and lysophosphatidylcholines in poko mouse compare to ob / ob mouse .
this lipid profile be associate with impair expression of pathway control de novo lipogenesis , transport of fatty acid , and beta oxidation in the poko mouse compare with the ob / ob mouse .
of interest , ppargc1a and other gluconeogenic gene be induce in the liver of poko mouse compare to that of ob / ob mouse , suggest a potential mechanism contribute to marked hyperglycaemia in poko mouse [ 53 , 54 ] .
overall , our lipidomic study identify a remarkably similar pattern of change in lipid specie in the four tissue study .
the reduce adipose tissue mass and hepatosteatosis in the poko mouse compare to the ob / ob mouse be explain by reduce level of mature tag in the poko mouse .
similarly , ablation of pparg2 result in accumulation of reactive lipid specie implicate in cause insulin resistance , not only in adipose tissue , but also in other organ involve in whole - organism glucose metabolism .
these result indicate that expression of pparg2 in the pancreas , liver , and muscle of the ob / ob mouse may be perform a protective role , by increase the capacity of these organ to buffer toxic lipid specie by allow accumulation of relatively harmless tag .
the importance of this peripheral antilipotoxic role of pparg2 become more evident if we consider that poko and ob / ob mouse be under the same degree of positive energy balance a determine by similar food intake , locomotor activity , and energy expenditure , that both model lack leptin , and that the only difference between ob / ob and poko mouse be the presence or absence of pparg2 .
give the decrease adipose tissue expandability of the poko mouse compare to ob / ob , it be anticipate that , a in the liver , muscle , or β - cell of lipodistrophic mouse , the poko mouse would accumulate more fat than the ob / ob .
however , our result clearly indicate that mouse lack pparg2 , despite massive nutrient availability , be unable to deposit tag in peripheral tissue and instead accumulate reactive lipid specie in these organ .
therefore the pathology of the liver and β - cell observe in the poko mouse may be a result of a common lipotoxic insult facilitate by the absence of pparg2 ( figure 6 ) .
in summary , in this study we provide new insight into the physiological relevance of the pparg2 isoform and identify adipose tissue expandability a an important determinant of metabolic complication .
ablation of pparg2 decrease adipose tissue expandability , but it pathophysiological effect only become relevant in the context of a mismatch between energy availability and adipose tissue expansion .
we show that pparg2 also play protective role when express de novo in peripheral organ by increase their capacity to buffer toxic lipid .
ablation of pparg2 under condition of positive energy balance determine by absence of leptin produce early development of severe insulin resistance , β - cell failure , diabetes , and hyperlipidaemia .
extrapolation of this model to human may suggest that normal to overweight individual with positive energy balance and inappropriately severe manifestation of the m may have a defect in pparg2 and / or alternative mechanism that control adipose tissue expandability .
material and method
generation of mouse homozygous for pparg2 ko and leptin deficiency ( ob / ob ) .
mouse heterozygous for a disruption in exon b1 of pparg2 on a 129sv background ( pparg2 + / − ) [ 2 ] be cross with heterozygous ob / ob ( lepob / lep + ) mouse on a c57bl / 6 background to obtain mouse heterozygous for both the pparg2 ablation and the leptin point mutation ( pparg2 + / − lepob / lep + ) .
these mouse be cross to obtain the four experimental genotype : wt ( pparg2 + / + lep + / lep + ) , pparg2 ko ( pparg2 − / − lep + / lep + ) , ob / ob ( pparg2 + / + lepob / lepob ) , and poko ( pparg2 − / − lepob / lepob ) .
genotyping for deletion of pparg2 and the point mutation in the ob gene be perform by pcr use standard protocol [ 2 , 55 ] .
animal care .
animal be house at a density of four animal per cage in a temperature - control room ( 20 – 22 °c ) with 12 - h light / dark cycle .
food and water be available ad libitum unless note .
all animal protocol use in this study be approve by the uk home office and the university of cambridge .
blood and urine biochemistry , food intake , and body composition analysis .
mouse of the four experimental genotype be place at weaning ( three week of age ) on a normal chow diet ( 10 % of calorie derive from fat ; d12450b , research diet , http://www.researchdiets.com ) .
enzymatic assay kit be use for determination of plasma ffas ( roche , http://www.roche.com ) and tag ( sigma - aldrich , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com ) .
elisa kit be use for measurement of leptin ( r & d system , http://www.rndsystems.com ) , insulin ( drg diagnostics international limited , http://www.drg-international.com ) , and adiponectin ( b - bridge international , http://www.b-bridge.com ) accord to manufacturer ' instruction .
dual - energy x-ray absorptiometry ( dexa , lunar corporation , http://www.lunarcorp.com ) be use to measure body composition ; glucose in blood and in urine and food intake be monitor in the four experimental genotype a previously show [ 2 ] .
oxygen consumption , water intake , and locomotor activity .
oxygen be measure use an eight - chamber open - circuit oxygen - monitor system attach to and sample from the chamber of a comprehensive laboratory animal monitoring system ( clam ; columbus instrument , http://www.colinst.com ) .
water consume be also measure use clam .
mouse be house individually in specially build plexiglas cage maintain at 22 °c under an alternate 12 : 12 - h light - dark cycle ( light period 08:00 – 20:00 ) .
sample air be sequentially pass through oxygen ( o2 ) and carbon dioxide ( co2 ) sensor ( columbus instrument ) for determination of o2 and co2 content .
mouse be acclimatize to monitor cage for 72 h before data collection .
mouse be weigh before each trial .
ambulatory activity of individually house mouse be evaluate use an eight - cage rack opto - m3 sensor system ( columbus instrument ) .
cumulative ambulatory activity count be record every 5 min throughout the light and dark cycle .
calculation of energy lose in urine .
energy lose in urine be calculate accordingly a previously show before [ 56 ] use the follow calculation :
energy lose in urine kj / day = ( glucose in urine [ mmol / l ] / 1,000 ) × molecular weight glucose × ( water intake [ ml / day ] / 1,000 ) × e densitycarb ; e densitycarb = energy density relate to oxidation within the body for carbohydrate a glucose = 15.76 kj / g .
rna preparation and real - time quantitative rt - pcr .
total rna be isolate from islet and tissue sample accord to the manufacturer 's instruction ( rnaeasy kit , qiagen , http://www.qiagen.com ) and stat60 ( tel - test , http://www.isotexdiagnostics.com/tel-test.html ) .
real - time quantitative pcr be perform use a taqman 7900 ( applied biosystems , http://www.appliedbiosystems.com ) accord to standard protocol .
western blot analysis .
the tissue sample ( 40 μg ) be subject to sd - page on 8 % polyacrylamide gel .
protein be then electrophoretically transfer to polyvinylidene difluoride filter .
after transfer , the filter be block with 5 % nonfat dry milk in tb - tween 20 follow by incubation with primary glut4 and extracellular signal - regulate kinase 1 / 2 ( erk1 / 2 ) antibody ( promega , http://www.promega.com ) overnight .
the band be quantify by scan densitometry .
light microscopy and immunohistochemcal analysis .
tissue sample for morphological and immunohistochemcal analysis be prepare accord to publish protocol [ 2 ] .
morphometric analysis of adipose tissue and pancreas section be acquire use a digital camera and microscope ( olympus bx41 , http://www.olympus.com ) , and cell area be measure use analysis software ( soft imaging system , http://www.soft-imaging.net ) .
for adipose tissue , two field from each section be analyse to obtain the mean cell - area per animal ( n = 5 per genotype ) .
the computer assist stereology toolbox ( cast ) 2.0 system from olympus be use to perform all measurement in the pancreas accord to publish protocol [ 57 ] .
isolation and culture of pancreatic islet .
the pancreas be inject via the bile duct with cold hank 's solution contain 0.4 % ( w / v ) liberase ( roche ) .
the pancreas be remove , digest for 15 – 30 min , and islet collect by handpicking .
isolate islet be culture overnight in h - cell medium ( sbmi 06 , hcell technology , http://www.hcell.com ) at 37 °c in 5 % co2 in air .
islet be use the day after isolation for insulin secretion study or rna extraction .
insulin secretion study .
insulin secretion from isolate islet ( five islet / well ) be measure during 1 - hr static incubation in krebs — ringer buffer contain either 1 mm glucose , 16.7 mm glucose , or 16.7 mm glucose plus 200 μm tolbutamide in dmso .
the supernatant be assay for insulin .
insulin content be extract use 95 : 5 ethanol / acetic acid .
insulin be measure use a mouse insulin elisa kit ( mercodia , http://www.mercodia.com ) .
islet be isolate from three mouse of each genotype for these experiment .
thus , the data be the mean of three separate experiment , in which data be collect for each test solution from six sample each of five islet .
for each sample , insulin release be normalise to insulin content .
itt .
itts on four - week - old mouse be perform a previously publish [ 58 ] .
lipid profiling .
for wat and muscle , the tissue sample ( 50 mg ) be homogenize with 0.15 m sodium chloride ( 300 μl ) , and the lipid be extract with 2 ml of chloroform : methanol ( 2 : 1 ) and use for lc / m a previously describe [ 2 ] .
for liver and islet , an aliquot ( 20 μl for liver or 10 μl for islet ) of an internal standard mixture ( 11 reference compound at concentration level 8 – 10 μg / ml ) , 50 μl of 0.15 m sodium chloride ( for liver ) , and chloroform : methanol ( 2 : 1 ) ( 200 μl for liver or 90 μl for islet ) be add to the tissue sample ( 20 – 30 mg ) .
the sample be homogenize , vortexed ( 2 min for liver or 15 s for islet ) , let to stand ( 1 h for liver , 20 min for islet ) , and centrifuge at 10,000 rpm for 3 min .
from the separate low phase , an aliquot be mix with 10 μl of a label standard mixture ( three stable isotope - label reference compound at concentration level 9 – 11 μg / ml ) , and 0.5 – 1.0 μl injection be use for lc / m analysis .
total lipid extract be analyse on a water q - tof premier mass spectrometer ( http://www.waters.com ) combine with an acquity ultra performance lc ( uplc ) .
the column , which be keep at 50 °c , be an acquity uplc beh c18 10 × 50 mm with 1.7 μm particle .
the binary solvent system ( flow rate 0.200 ml / min ) include a , water ( 1 % 1 m nh4ac , 0.1 % hcooh ) , and b , lc / m grade ( rathburn , http://www.rathburn.co.uk ) acetonitrile / isopropanol ( 5 : 2 , 1 % 1 m nh4ac , 0.1 % hcooh ) .
the gradient start from 65 % a / 35 % b , reach 100 % b in 6 min , and remain there for the next 7 min .
the total run time per sample , include a 5 min re-equilibration step , be 18 min .
the temperature of the sample organizer be set at 10 °c .
mass spectrometry be carry out on q - tof premier ( water ) run in esi + mode .
the data be collect over the mass range of m / z 300 – 1,200 with scan duration of 0.2 s .
the source temperature be set at 120 °c , and nitrogen be use a desolvation gas ( 800 l / h ) at 250 °c .
the voltage of the sampling cone and capillary be 39 v and 3.2 kv , respectively .
reserpine ( 50 μg / l ) be use a the lock spray reference compound ( 5 μl / min ; 10 s - scan frequency ) .
data processing be perform use the mzmine software [ 59 ] .
identification be perform base on an internal reference database of lipid specie , or alternatively utilize the tandem mass spectrometry .
the statistical analysis be perform use matlab ( mathworks , http://www.mathworks.com ) and the matlab library pls toolbox ( eigenvector research , http://www.eigenvector.com ) .
tandem mass spectrometry be use for the identification of select lipid specie .
m / m run be perform by use esi + mode , collision energy ramp from 15 – 30 v , and mass range start from m / z 150 .
the other condition be a show in the protocol s1 .
statistic .
result be express a mean ± standard error of mean .
statistical analysis be perform use a two - tailed unpaired t - test between appropriate pair of group , and significance declare if p - value be less than 0.05 .
supporting information
figure s1
adipose tissue and liver gene expression
( 39 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
water consume and locomotor activity
( 38 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
glut4 protein expression in wat
( 65 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
gene expression in islet
( 25 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s5
gene expression in muscle
( 32 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
protocol s1
poko mouse model lipidomics dataset
( 208 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
tissue weight of 16 - wk - old male poko , ob / ob , pparg2 ko , and wt mouse
( 29 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
table s2
microarray data
( 105 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
table s3
pathway analysis from microarray data
( 112 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s4
accession number
genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank ) accession number for the gene and gene product discuss in this paper .
( 58 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
animal care and husbandry provide by j. carter , s. shelton , h. wetsby , h. williams , a. kant , j.p. whiting , and g. bevan .
we thank d. lam , m. dale , and k. burling for their technical assistance .
we also thank j. skepper and p.m. coan for their help with morphometry analysis in pancreas and peter murgatroyd for his help with oxygen consumption experiment .
we acknowledge paradigm therapeutic ( http://www.paradigm-therapeutics.co.uk ) for generate the pparg2 ko mouse .
abbreviation
dag - diacylglycerol
glut - glucose transporter
h and e - haematoxylin and eosin
itt - insulin tolerance test
lc / m - liquid chromatography / mass spectrometry
m - metabolic syndrome
pparg - peroxisome proliferator activate receptor gamma
pparg2 - peroxisome proliferator activate receptor gamma 2
ppargc1a - pparg coactivator 1 alpha
scd1 - stearoyl - coenzyme a desaturase 1
tag - triacylglycerol
wat - white adipose tissue
wt - wild type
figure and table
figure 1
physiological characterisation of poko mouse
( a ) body weight ( black circle , wt ; black square , ob / ob ; white circle , pparg2 ko ; white square , poko ) be show for male ( left ) or female ( right ) ( n = 5 – 12 ) .
* , p < 0.05 poko versus ob / ob and § , p < 0.01 poko versus wt .
( b ) food intake from 20 - wk - old female mouse ( n = 4 ) be show .
( c ) body composition analysis from 20 - wk - old female be show : wt , ob / ob , pparg2 ko , and poko mouse feed chow diet mouse ( n = 4 – 7 ) .
* , p < 0.05 poko versus wt and # # # , p < 0.001 poko versus ob / ob .
( d ) haematoxylin and eosin ( h and e ) - stain section ( 10 × ) from epididymal wat from 16 - wk - old male wt , ob / ob , and poko mouse .
( e ) percent relative cumulative frequency analysis ( prcf ) from epididymal wat adipocytes from 16 - wk - old male wt , ob / ob , pparg2 ko , and poko mouse .
( n = 4 – 5 ) .
figure 2
early insulin resistance in poko mouse independent of body weight
( a ) body weight and plasma glucose level from three , four , and five - week - old female wt , ob / ob , pparg2 ko , and poko .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 poko versus ob / ob .
( b ) plasma glucose level during itt on 4 - wk - old male ( left ) and female ( right ) mouse on chow diet ( black triangle , wt ; white triangle , pparg2 ko ; black square , ob / ob ; black diamond , poko ) ( n = 7 ) .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 poko versus ob / ob .
( c ) morphological analysis of h and e - stain section ( 10 × ) in pancreas from 4 - wk - old male ob / ob and poko mouse ( n = 5 ) .
figure 3
impair β - cell function and hepatic morphological analyis in the poko mouse
( a ) h and e - stain section ( 10 × ) and immunohistochemical ( 20 × ) analysis of insulin and glucagon in pancreas from 16 - wk - old male wt , ob / ob , and poko mouse ( n = 5 ) .
( b ) insulin content of islet isolate from poko ( black bar ) , and ob / ob ( grey bar ) mouse .
each data point be the mean of six sample each of five islet .
( c ) insulin secretion from islet isolate from poko ( black bar ) and ob / ob ( grey bar ) mouse in response to glucose ( 1 , 16 mm ) or glucose 16 mm + tolbutamide ( 200 μm ) .
data be collect from six sample each of five islet from three mouse of each genotype .
for each sample , insulin release be normalise to insulin content .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 poko versus ob / ob .
( d ) h and e - stain section ( 4 × ) in liver from 16 - wk - old male wt , ob / ob , and poko mouse ( n = 5 ) .
figure 4
lipidomic and gene expression analysis of poko wat
( a ) lipidomic profiling of wat from 16 - wk - old male wt , ob / ob , and poko mouse .
( b ) adipose tissue mrna level from different gene from 16 - wk - old male wt , pparg2 ko , ob / ob , and poko mouse ( n = 6 – 8 ) .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 poko versus ob / ob .
figure 5
lipidomic and gene expression analysis in islet and liver from poko mouse
lipidomic profiling of islet ( a ) and liver ( b ) from 16 - wk - old male wt , pparg2 ko , ob / ob , and poko mouse .
tg , tag ; dag , diacylglycerols ; sm , sphingomyelins .
( c ) liver gene expression from 16 - wk - old male wt , ob / ob , pparg2 ko , and poko mouse feed chow ( n = 6 – 8 ) .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p , < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 poko versus ob / ob ; # # # , p < 0.001 poko versus wt ; ‡‡‡ , p < 0.001 ob / ob versus wt .
figure 6
storage of lipid — antilipotoxic role of pparg2
antilipotoxic role of pparg2 mediate by ( a ) expansion of adipose tissue and facilitation of triglyceride deposition and ( b ) facilitate deposition of fat in liver , skeletal muscle , and pancreas in the form of tag .
ob / ob mouse can induce pparg2 expression in liver , muscle , and β - cell , facilitate deposition of excess of energy in these organ in the form of tag .
absence of inducibility of pparg2 in poko mouse liver , muscle , and β - cell result in increase deposition of reactive lipid specie and decrease tag , lead to marked insulin resistance and β - cell failure .
table 1
metabolic parameter in fed 4 - wk - old male and female poko , ob / ob , pparg2 ko , and wt mouse
table 2
metabolic parameter in 16 - wk - old male poko , ob / ob , and wt mouse
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
gmg , slg , fma , and avp conceive and design the experiment .
gmg , slg , ly , k , sv , mb , ml , and mo perform the experiment .
gmg , slg , ly , k , sv , mc , rkc , mjl , tsl , and mo analyse the data .
gmg , ly , k , sv , mc , rkc , mb , and gshy contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
gmg and avp write the paper .
funding .
this work be support by the european union fp6 hepatic and adipose tissue and function in the metabolic syndrome ( hepadip ) integrated program ( http://www.hepadip.org ) ( lshm - ct - 2005 – 018734 ) ; diabetes uk ; medical research council ; wellcome trust integrative physiology program ; academy of finland ( grant number 111338 ) ; and marie curie international reintegration grant from the european community .
inhibition of gap junction communication at ectopic eph / ephrin boundary underlie craniofrontonasal syndrome
abstract
mutation in x - link ephrin - b1 in human cause craniofrontonasal syndrome ( cfns ) , a disease that affect female patient more severely than male .
sort of ephrin - b1 – positive and – negative cell follow x - inactivation have be observe in ephrin - b1 + / − mouse ; however , the mechanism by which mosaic ephrin - b1 expression lead to cell sort and phenotypic defect remain unknown .
here we show that ephrin - b1 + / − mouse exhibit calvarial defect , a phenotype autonomous to neural crest cell that correlate with cell sort .
we have trace the cause of calvarial defect to impaired differentiation of osteogenic precursor .
we show that gap junction communication ( gjc ) be inhibit at ectopic ephrin boundary and that ephrin - b1 interact with connexin43 and regulate it distribution .
moreover , we provide genetic evidence that gjc be implicate in the calvarial defect observe in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo .
our result uncover a novel role for eph / ephrins in regulate gjc in vivo and suggest that the pleiotropic defect see in cfns patient be due to improper regulation of gjc in affect tissue .
introduction
physical segregation , or sorting , of different cell population during development be essential for the proper spatial organization of the animal body .
eph receptor tyrosine kinase and ephrins regulate many developmental process [ 1 – 3 ] , and play an important role in tissue patterning by restrict cell intermingling and establish developmental boundary [ 4 – 6 ] .
a dramatic example of the role of eph and ephrins in cell sorting , as well a the importance of proper cell sorting during development , be recently provide by the analysis of the phenotype exhibit by ephrin - b1 heterozygous female mouse [ 7 , 8 ] and by the identification of mutation in the ephrin - b1 gene in human craniofrontonasal syndrome ( cfns ) patient [ 9 , 10 ] .
a a result of random x - inactivation , x - link ephrin - b1 expression be mosaic in ephrin - b1 + / − mouse and ephrin - b1 – positive and ephrin - b1 – negative cell segregate from one another .
this correlate with a polydactyly phenotype that be never observe in ephrin - b1 null animal [ 7 , 8 ] .
similarly , cfns be an x - linked developmental disorder characterize by a number of craniofacial defect including abnormal development of the cranial and nasal bone , and craniosynostosis ( premature fusion of the coronal suture ) , as well a extracranial anomaly ( include polydactyly and syndactyly ) , affect mainly female patient [ 11 ] .
despite year of intensive study , the molecular mechanism by which eph receptor and ephrins influence cell sorting be still poorly understand .
eph receptor and ephrins function a an unusual receptor / ligand pair in which both receptor and ligand be capable of activate a signaling cascade .
one prominent outcome of eph / ephrin interaction be the regulation of cell – substrate adhesion and reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton .
it have also be report that eph receptor and ephrins regulate gap junction communication ( gjc ) [ 6 ] .
indeed , study in zebrafish have show that expression of eph receptor and ephrins in animal cap cell be sufficient to block gjc at the boundary between both cell population .
gap junction be intercellular membrane channel that mediate cell coupling by allow the passage of small molecule directly from cell to cell .
during vertebrate development , region of gjc coincide with developmental compartment [ 12 , 13 ] .
for instance , gjc be reduce at inter-rhombomeric boundary , a compare to gjc in the rhombomeres themselves .
gjc be involve in various developmental process and mutation in connexins , the structural protein form gap junctional pore , have be link to a number of human disease [ 14 ] .
notably , gjc play an important role in skeletal development [ 15 ] and mutation in connexin43 ( cx43 ) lead to cranial and skeletal defect both in human and mouse [ 16 , 17 ] .
in this report , we have investigate the underlying cause of the phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygous mouse .
we show that cell sorting in ephrin - b1 + / − female induce calvarial defect due to the impaired differentiation of neural crest cell ( nccs ) .
we provide evidence that gjc be inhibit at ectopic ephrin boundary and that ephrin - b1 physically interact with cx43 and influence it distribution .
in addition , we report that overexpression of cx43 partially rescue the calvarial defect observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygote .
finally , we show that regulation of gjc correlate with cell sorting in response to eph / ephrin interaction .
from these result we conclude that mosaic loss of ephrin - b1 exert a dominant effect during development involve perturbation of gjc at ectopic eph / ephrin boundary and lead to defective tissue differentiation .
these observation extend our understanding of the mechanism underlie cfns in human and of the role of eph receptor and ephrins in vivo .
result
craniofacial phenotype in ephrin - b1 heterozygous female
we and others have show previously that ephrin - b1 + / − female exhibit a polydactyly phenotype that be never see in ephrin - b1y / − male or ephrin - b1 − / − female [ 7 , 8 ] .
because cfns human female patient exhibit numerous craniofacial defect , we undertake a close analysis of ephrin - b1 heterozygous female mouse that reveal several defect in ncc - derived tissue that be not see in hemizygous male or homozygous female .
at p1 , ephrin - b1 + / − heterozygous female ( n = 17 ) present an opening ( foramen ) between the frontal bone and jagged bone front ( figure 1ab ) , indicative of abnormal development of the frontal bone .
( the parietal bone be affected at low penetrance ) .
ephrin - b1 − / − homozygous null female ( n = 3 ) and ephrin - b1y / − hemizygous male ( n = 13 ) exhibit a normal development of these bone ( figure 1aa and unpublished data ) .
the frontal bone phenotype be recapitulate in heterozygous female carry a deletion of ephrin - b1 specifically in nccs ( n = 3 ) ( figure 1ac ) , consistent with the ncc origin of frontal bone [ 18 ] .
ephrin - b1 + / − female also exhibit abnormal alignment of the vibrissa bud which be recapitulate by conditional deletion of ephrin - b1 in nccs ( ephrin - b1 + / lox ; wnt1cre + ) , indicate that the defect be autonomous to this lineage ( figure s1 ) .
it have be propose by others that the mild manifestation of cfns in male carrier might be due to compensatory mechanism by other ephrins [ 10 ] .
to test this hypothesis , we ask whether further alteration in the dosage of ephrin signaling would lead to calvarial phenotype in ephrin - b1 null mutant .
we choose to focus on ephrin - b2 since loss of this gene have be show previously to affect migration of a sub-population of cranial nccs [ 19 ] and ephrin - b2 be express in the craniofacial area ( figure 2 )
we generate a mouse line harbor a null mutation in the ephrin - b2 gene by place a cdna coding for a fusion protein between histone 2b ( h2b ) and the green fluorescent protein ( gfp ) under the control of the ephrin - b2 promoter ( a. davy , p. soriano , unpublished data ) .
ephrin - b2 and ephrin - b1 heterozygous animal be mat to generate ephrin - b1 / ephrin - b2 double heterozygous animal .
skeleton preparation show that removal of one copy of ephrin - b2 in an ephrin - b1 + / − background worsen the calvarial phenotype ( figure 1b ) .
indeed , in addition to a large gap between the frontal bone ( figure s2a ) , ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo ( n = 5 ) exhibit a coronal suture defect that be not observe in ephrin - b1 single mutant , male or female .
bone front at coronal suture in ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo do not overlap , and ectopic bone be frequently observe in the suture mesenchyme ( figure 1bc ) .
examination of skeleton preparation from e15.5 embryo indicate that although bone formation in ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo proceed comparably to ephrin - b1 + / − embryo , bone front seem unable to extend toward each other at the coronal suture ( figure 1bf ) .
importantly , ephrin - b1y / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp double hemi / heterozygous male ( n = 3 ) exhibit normal calvarial development ( figure 1bd and unpublished data ) .
altogether , these result show that mosaic loss of ephrin - b1 exert a dominant effect on the development of calvarial bone .
removal of one copy of ephrin - b2 in an ephrin - b1 + / − background be sufficient to uncover additional defect at the coronal suture ; however , it do not lead to calvarial phenotype in ephrin - b1 null embryo , suggest that the lack of calvarial phenotype in these embryo be not due to compensation by ephrin - b2 .
defect in ncc - derived structure correlate with cell - sorting in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo
to well understand the basis for the calvarial phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygote , we analyze the expression pattern of ephrin - b1 and ephrin - b2 , and their cognate receptor ephb2 and ephb3 at various stage of development .
these receptor have be implicate both in the polydactyly phenotype and in the formation of the palate [ 20 ] , a ncc - derived structure that also require ephrin - b1 .
at e14.5 , expression of ephrin - b1 , ephb2 , and ephb3 can be detect in the develop frontal bone ( figure 2a ) .
ephrin - b1 and ephb3 be express throughout the bone whereas ephb2 expression appear to be restrict ventrally .
interestingly , ephrin - b1 be also strongly express in the meningeal layer which derive from neural crest cell [ 18 ] .
at e12.5 , a stage that correspond to the early stage of calvarial bone differentiation , ephrin - b1 be express throughout the head mesenchyme as well a in the vibrissa bud in wild - type embryo ( figure 2ba and figure s1 ) .
in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo , expression of ephrin - b1 be patchy throughout the craniofacial mesenchyme and in the telencephalon , and highlight the defective formation of vibrissae bud ( figure 2bb ) .
both ephrin - b2 and ephb2 exhibit expression pattern that be similar to ephrin - b1 ( figure 2bc and 2be ) .
expression of ephrin - b2 , however , be unchanged in ephrin - b1 + / − ( figure 2bd ) whereas ephb2 expression appear patchy ( figure 2bf ) .
it have be report previously that patchy expression of ephrin - b1 in ephrin - b1 + / − limb bud reflect sort between ephrin - b1 – positive and – negative cell population that be generate in the ephrin - b1 heterozygous female via random x - inactivation and that this abnormal expression of ephrin - b1 in the limb bud correlate with a polydactyly phenotype that be observe in ephrin - b1 + / − female [ 7 , 8 ] .
our data demonstrate that the calvarial phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygous female correlate with an abnormal expression of ephrin - b1 and ephb2 in the presumptive frontal bone , likely due to cell sorting between ephrin - b1 – positive and ephrin - b1 – negative cell in the craniofacial mesenchyme .
the frontal bone defect be cause by abnormal osteogenic differentiation
to uncover the nature of the dominant effect of mosaic loss of ephrin - b1 , we reason that understand why sort - out between ephrin - b1 – positive and ephrin - b1 – negative cell have such consequence for the development of this tissue would shed light on the dominant function of ephrin - b1 .
nccs be the source of the frontal bone osteoprogenitor population , and both ephrin - b1 and ephrin - b2 control migration of these cell , raise the possibility that improper migration of ncc progenitor could be responsible for the frontal bone phenotype .
use a combination of wnt1cre / r26r allele to specifically label nccs , we find no difference in the size of the progenitor pool between ephrin - b1 heterozygous female and wild - type animal ( figure 3a ) , indicate that defective migration be not the likely cause for the frontal bone phenotype .
in addition , no proliferation or cell survival defect be detect on section of mutant frontal bone ( unpublished data ) .
to test whether the defect in calvarial bone development in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo correlate with perturbation of osteoblastic differentiation , we use alkaline phosphatase ( ap ) activity a a marker of early osteoblastic differentiation .
at e16.5 , ap staining of frontal bone show delay differentiation in ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp and ephrin - b1 + / − ( figure s2b and unpublished data ) .
at e12.5 , similar level of ap activity could be detect in wild - type , ephrin - b1y / − , and ephrin - b1 + / − embryo ( figure 3b ) , indicate that defective bone growth be not due to delay onset of differentiation in heterozygous mutant .
however , unlike wild - type and ephrin - b1y / − embryo which show continuous ap activity , ap staining of the presumptive frontal bone appear irregular in ephrin - b1 heterozygous embryo ( figure 3bc ) .
these observation indicate that the calvarial defect observe in ephrin - b1 + / − mutant be not due to abnormal migration or survival of nccs , but instead might be due to a defective differentiation of the presumptive osteogenic mesenchyme .
to confirm the differentiation defect observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygote , we isolate presumptive osteogenic mesenchymal cell from e14.5 wild - type and ephrin - b1 + / − embryo , and evaluate their ability to differentiate in vitro .
use ap activity a a marker for osteogenic differentiation , we observe that cell isolate from ephrin - b1 + / − embryo be consistently less prone to differentiate in vitro ( figure 3c ) , indicate that these defect be autonomous to the osteoprogenitor cell .
in these primary culture , expression of ephrin - b1 be detect in a punctate pattern in both ap - positive as well a ap - negative cell ( figure s3a ) , indicate that expression of ephrin - b1 and ap do not strictly correlate , and suggest that ephrin - b1 do not regulate ap activity directly .
defective osteogenic differentiation in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo correlate with abnormal cx43 distribution
use this in vitro system , we test a number of marker that have be show to regulate osteogenic differentiation , include n - cadherin and cx43 expression , as well a activation of mapk .
among these , only cx43 distribution show prevalent change between culture from wild - type and ephrin - b1 heterozygous embryo ( figure 4a and unpublished data ) .
cx43 be a structural protein that form gap junctional pore ( connexons ) .
whereas cytoplasmic cx43 show a diffuse staining by immunofluorescence , cell surface connexons appear a bright dot because they aggregate to form functional gap junctional plaque at cell – cell interface .
in culture of mesenchymal cell isolate from wild - type embryo , the differentiate cell express a high level of cx43 , and gap junctional plaque be readily visible between these cell ( figure 4aa and 4ab ) .
on the contrary , in culture of mesenchymal cell isolate from ephrin - b1 heterozygous embryo , the distribution of cx43 be alter and gap junctional plaque be not detect ( figure 4ac and 4ad ) .
western blot analysis indicate that the overall level of cx43 be unchanged in primary culture isolate from ephrin - b1 heterozygous embryo , indicate that the distribution but not the expression of cx43 be alter in primary culture from ephrin - b1 + / − embryo ( figure s3b ) .
we next test whether distribution of cx43 be also alter in ephrin - b1 mosaic embryo .
for this purpose , we co-stained paraffin section from control and heterozygous mutant e12.5 embryo with ap and cx43 .
however , even though ap staining of the frontal bone be very irregular in the ephrin - b1 + / − embryo , compare to the control frontal bone ( figure s3ca and s3cc ) , we be unable to detect significant difference in cx43 staining on these section ( figure s3cb and s3cd ) .
since ephrin - b1 null embryo do not show calvarial phenotype or abnormal osteogenic differentiation , we reason that ephrin - b1 itself might not be require for proper localization of cx43 , but rather that abnormal distribution of cx43 might be see only at the boundary between ephrin - b1 – positive and – negative cell in the mosaic embryo .
to be able to detect boundary between ephrin - b1 – positive and ephrin - b1 – negative cell , we generate chimeric embryo by inject ephrin - b1 null embryonic stem ( e ) cell in wild - type rosa26 blastocyst which express β - galactosidase constitutively .
paraffin section of x - gal – stain e11.5 chimeric embryo be process for immunofluorescence use the cx43 antibody .
gap junctional cx43 be readily detect between wild - type cell and between ephrin - b1 null cell ( figure 4b ) .
however , gap junctional cx43 be almost never observe between ephrin - b1 – positive and – negative cell .
we conclude that the number of junctional pore be diminish at ephrin - b1 – positive / ephrin - b1 – negative boundary in vivo .
ephrin - b1 associate with cx43 and regulate gjc
compagni et al. have show that the level of ephb2 receptor be up - regulate in ephrin - b1 – negative domain in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo , thus create ectopic eph / ephrin boundary [ 7 ] .
we therefore reason that decrease junctional cx43 at ephrin - b1 – positive / ephrin - b1 – negative boundary in vivo could in fact indicate an inhibition of gjc by eph / ephrin signaling .
to test whether eph / ephrin signaling could regulate gjc , we use calcein - am a a marker of gjc in vitro .
we find that interaction between ephrin - b1 and eph - b2 result in inhibition of gjc in vitro ( figure 5 ) .
nih 3t3 cell express ephrin - b1 show reduce transfer of calcein - am when plat on cell express low level of eph - b2 ( figure 5ab ) , a compare to control cell ( figure 5aa ) .
more dramatically , plat of ephrin - b1 – express cell over cell express high level of eph - b2 result in a complete inhibition of gjc ( figure 5ac ) .
similar result be obtain use primary nccs that express both ephrin - b1 and eph - b2 at low level .
although primary nccs be able to establish strong gjc with control fibroblast ( figure 5ba and 5bd ) , plat onto fibroblast express ephrin - b1 markedly decrease dye transfer , even though the majority of the cell be able to spread normally ( figure 5bb and 5be ) .
the fact that some cell spread normally , but be unable to transfer the dye ( figure 5bf ) , indicate that inhibition of gjc be not due to cell repulsion .
plat of primary nccs onto fibroblast express eph - b2 result in a moderate reduction in gjc ( figure 5bc ) .
we quantify gjc by two mean : first , we evaluate the number of donor cell that have spread and be able to transfer the dye ( figure 5ca ) .
second , we count the number of receive cell for each donor cell that have spread and transfer the dye ( figure 5cb ) .
both measurement indicate that gjc be diminish when primary nccs be plat on ephrin - b1 – ( and to a low extent ephb2 – ) express cell .
these result demonstrate that interaction between ephb2 and ephrin - b1 impair establishment of gjc .
to well understand the molecular mechanism by which eph / ephrins might impinge on cx43 distribution and regulate gjc , we analyze the distribution of both ephrin - b1 and cx43 in cell culture .
co-immunofluorescence study show that cx43 and ephrin - b1 partially co-localize in primary mesenchymal cell ( figure 6a ) .
we then analyze the effect of eph / ephrin engagement on cx43 distribution in cell line in which ephrin - b1 be transiently transfected .
expression of ephrin - b1 and cx43 be partially overlap in untreated nih 3t3 cell , especially at interface between cell express ephrin - b1 , which exhibit strong cx43 staining ( figure 6ba – c ) .
follow engagement by ephb2 - fc ( a soluble form of ephb2 receptor ) , ephrin - b1 be find in cluster that partially overlap with the cx43 punctate staining ( figure 6b d – f ) .
similar result be obtain use mdck cell .
these result demonstrate that ephrin - b1 and cx43 partially co-localize at the subcellular level both in absence and presence of eph / ephrin interaction .
to test whether ephrin - b1 and cx43 physically interact , we perform a pull - down assay in nih 3t3 cell express ephrin - b1 .
we use a recombinant protein consist of the extracellular domain of eph - b2 receptor fuse to the fc fragment of human igg ( ephb2 - fc ) to pull down ephrin - b1 .
cx43 be detect in the pull down , indicate that it interact with ephrin - b1 ( figure 6ca ) .
in a converse experiment , ephrin - b1 be co-immunoprecipitated with an anti-cx43 antibody ( figure 6cb ) .
these result indicate that ephrin - b1 and cx43 interact with each other .
regulation of gjc underlie ephrin - induce cell sorting
to identify the domain of ephrin - b1 require for the interaction with cx43 , we perform a pull down use a recombinant protein consist of the extracellular domain of ephrin - b1 fuse to the fc fragment of human igg ( ephrinb1 - fc ) .
cx43 be not detect in the pull down indicate that the intracellular domain of ephrin - b1 be require for the interaction with cx43 ( figure 6cb ) .
we next ask whether the pdz - bind domain of ephrin - b1 be necessary for the interaction with cx43 , since cx43 have be show to interact with pdz - contain molecule , and the data present above suggest that cx43 interact with the intracellular domain of ephrin - b1 .
we generate a mutant form of ephrin - b1 that show reduce binding to pdz - contain protein ( ephrin - b1 δ pdz [ 8 ] ) .
the ability of this mutant form of ephrin - b1 to interact with cx43 be test use nih 3t3 cell that be transiently transfected with either wild - type ephrin - b1 or ephrin - b1 δ pdz .
western - blot analysis of whole cell lysates indicate that both protein be express , albeit at different level , and that expression of ephrin - b1 do not influence the phosphorylation status of cx43 ( detect by difference in mobility on a sd - page ) , which be know to regulate gjc ( figure 7a ) .
cx43 could be detect in the pull down from cell express either ephrin - b1 wild type or ephrin - b1 δ pdz , however , the relative abundance of phosphorylated versus unphosphorylated band be change .
more phosphorylated cx43 ( slow mobility ) be observe in the ephrin - b1 wild - type pull down , whereas more unphosphorylated cx43 be detect in the ephrin - b1 δ pdz pull down ( figure 7a ) .
these result indicate that the pdz bind domain of ephrin - b1 be not require for it interaction with cx43 ; however , ephrin - b1 δ pdz and wild - type ephrin - b1 interact preferentially with different form of cx43 .
because phosphorylated cx43 be think to represent junctional cx43 whereas unphosphorylated cx43 represent the inactive , cytoplasmic pool , we test whether ephrin - b1 δ pdz co-localized with cx43 follow engagement by ephb2 - fc .
although ephrin - b1 δ pdz be present at the cell surface and localize in cluster , we do not observe co-localization of ephrin - b1 δ pdz and cx43 follow engagement by ephb2 - fc ( figure 7b ) .
to test the effect of this mutation on calvarial development , we generate ephrin - b1 δ pdz chimeric embryo .
examination of skeletal preparation of e18.5 ephrin - b1 δ pdz chimera reveal that these embryo do not exhibit defect in the calvarial bone , even in chimera exhibit a high degree of contribution of mutant e cell ( figure s4 ) , nor do they present polydactyly ( unpublished data ) .
however , subtle but consistent defect in sternum development , a phenotype that be associate with complete loss of ephrin - b1 [ 7 , 8 ] , be observe in almost all of the chimera ( figure s4 ) , indicate that the lack of calvarial and polydactyly phenotype in the chimeric embryo be not due to an ineffective contribution of ephrin - b1 δ pdz e cell to bone .
to test the effect of the ephrin - b1 δ pdz mutation on the distribution of cx43 in vivo , we generate chimeric embryo by inject mutant e cell carry the ephrin - b1 δ pdz allele ( or ephrin - b1 null e cell a a control ) in wild - type rosa 26 blastocyst .
unexpectedly , paraffin section of x - gal – stain e11.5 chimeric embryo reveal that unlike ephrin - b1 null cell , cell express ephrin - b1 δ pdz do not sort - out from wild - type cell ( figure 7c ) .
these result indicate that mosaic loss of reverse signaling through the pdz binding domain be not sufficient to drive cell sorting and do not lead to defective calvarial bone development .
the inability of ephrin - b1 δ pdz to co-localize with cx43 upon engagement and to drive cell sorting suggest that regulation of gjc itself may play a role in the sort - out process between ephrin - b1 – positive and ephrin - b1 – negative cell .
to test this hypothesis , we transiently transfected hek293t cell ( that have very low level of endogenous cx43 ) with cx43 and allow them to sort out follow trypsinization .
unlike control transfected cell , cx43 - overexpressing cell segregate from untransfected cell and be consistently find in cluster ( figure 7da ) , indicate that the establishment of gjc do indeed promote cell sorting .
overexpression of cx43 partially rescue the calvarial phenotype
because the lack of cell sorting in the experiment describe above preclude the establishment of a functional link between the calvarial phenotype and the regulation of gjc in ephrin - b1 heterozygote embryo , we perform a genetic rescue experiment .
mouse carry a cmv - cx43 transgene that allow for the generalize overexpression of cx43 [ 21 ] be breed to ephrin - b1 − / − mouse .
western - blot analysis show a modest increase in the level of cx43 in presumptive frontal bone of embryo carry the transgene ( unpublished data ) .
skeleton preparation of p1 offspring indicate that all of the skeletal defect previously observe in the ephrin - b1 mutant , include the phenotype specific to ephrin - b1 heterozygote , be also find in this mixed genetic background ( unpublished data ) .
to assess whether overexpression of cx43 have an effect on the calvarial phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 + / − mutant , we quantify the foramen area between the frontal bone in newborn pup from all genotype ( see the material and method section ) .
although overexpression of cx43 have no significant impact on the development of the frontal bone in male pup , the foramen area be decrease in the ephrin - b1 + / − pup carry the cmv - cx43 transgene compare to ephrin - b1 + / − pup without the transgene ( figure 8 ) .
whereas the difference in foramen area between the ephrin - b1 + / − pup with and without the cmv - cx43 transgene be significant , the degree of rescue of frontal bone development in presence of the transgene be variable from sample to sample ( unpublished data ) .
importantly , overexpression of cx43 do not change the skeletal defect that be independent of cell sorting ( i.e. , sternum defect ) ( unpublished data ) .
these result establish a functional link between ephrin - b1 and gjc , and suggest that improper regulation of gjc be implicate in the calvarial defect observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygous female .
discussion
ephrin - b1 + / − mouse a a model for cfns
in this study we have show that , analogous to human , heterozygous loss of ephrin - b1 in mouse result in defective development of the skull vault .
human cfns patient carry mutation in the ephrin - b1 gene exhibit a range of craniofacial defect include ocular hypertelorism , malformation of the face ( in particular the forehead and the nose ) , cranium bifidum occultum , and craniosynostosis [ 22 ] .
our study show that at birth , ephrin - b1 + / − mouse exhibit a delay in the ossification of calvarial bone lead to a frontal foramen similar to cranium bifidum occultum , and in many instance , to a bifid nose , mimic the human disease .
remove one copy of ephrin - b2 result in increase severity of the frontal foramen , and an additional coronal suture defect in an ephrin - b1 + / − background , but have no effect in ephrin - b1 null embryo , suggest that the lack of phenotype in ephrin - b1 hemizygous male be not due to functional compensation by ephrin - b2 .
the effect of remove both copy of ephrin - b2 on calvarial development could not be analyze due to the early embryonic lethality of ephrin - b2 null embryo .
interestingly , our mutant mouse do not exhibit craniosynostosis of the coronal suture see in human .
the process lead to calvarial foramen and craniosynostosis be genetically link , a evidence by loss of function and gain of function mutation in the transcription factor msx2 , respectively .
moreover , heterozygosity for the transcription factor twist can lead to craniosynostosis , as well a to foramen , and both transcription factor regulate differentiation of frontal bone osteoprogenitors ( ishii et al. , 2003 ) .
ectopic bone growth observe within the coronal suture of ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo might be prescient of a premature fusion of the suture , but this could not be analyze at late stage , since 100 % of these animal die at birth ( a. davy , p. soriano , unpublished data ) .
the genetic interaction suggest , however , that the discrepancy in coronal suture phenotype between ephrin - b1 heterozygous mouse and human could be due to genetic modifier .
our expression analysis do not support a model in which wild - type expression of ephrin - b1 control suture formation by establish boundary in craniofacial mesenchyme .
in fact , the observation that ephrin - b1 null animal have no defect in calvarial bone argue that the function of ephrin - b1 be not normally require for either calvarial bone development or proper suture formation .
on the other hand , the fact that ephrin - b1 be express in the meningeal layer could account for both the suture as well a the low - penetrance parietal bone phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo because this layer be involve in suture and parietal bone formation [ 18 , 23 ] .
most of the mutation in ephrin - b1 that have be identify in cfns patient be locate in the 5 ′ end of the gene and be consistent with loss - of - function mutation , either by introduce a premature stop codon , or by presumably interfere with the binding of ephrin - b1 to eph receptor [ 9 , 10 ] .
however , it be report more recently that some patient harbor mutation in the 3 ′ end of the gene , which might affect specifically the reverse signaling activity of ephrin - b1 [ 24 ] .
our data use chimeric embryo demonstrate that a mutation in the pdz bind domain of ephrin - b1 , which be know to phenocopy some of the phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 null embryo include cleft palate [ 8 ] , do not induce calvarial defect or polydactyly .
these result indicate that the mutation find in cfns patient might impinge on protein stability , protein localization , or binding of effector molecule independent of the pdz domain .
defective osteogenic differentiation and inhibition of gjc
our result be consistent with a model in which inhibition of gjc at ectopic eph / ephrin boundary in ephrin - b1 + / − female result in an abnormal differentiation of osteoprogenitors , thereby lead to the defective development of frontal bone and also , presumably , to polydactyly .
consistent with a previous report [ 6 ] , we find that eph / ephrin interaction inhibit gjc .
in addition , junctional cx43 be decrease at ectopic eph / ephrin boundary in vivo , and reduce junctional cx43 correlate with decrease osteogenic differentiation of primary cell isolate from ephrin - b1 heterozygous embryo .
finally , we find that overexpression of cx43 partially rescue the calvarial phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygote female .
these result be consistent with other report document the role of gjc and cx43 in osteogenic differentiation [ 25 – 27 ] .
in addition , several genetic study have show that defective regulation of gjc affect craniofacial and digit development , indicate that the structure affect in ephrin - b1 heterozygous female be highly sensitive to alteration in gjc .
mouse deficient for cx43 exhibit delay ossification of the calvarial bone and craniofacial abnormality [ 28 ] , but more importantly , mutation in gja1 ( the gene cod for cx43 ) in human be responsible for oculodentodigital dysplasia ( oddd ) , a syndrome that be characterize by defective craniofacial development and digit formation [ 16 ] .
an enu screen in mouse recently uncover a dominant mouse mutation that exhibit many of the classic feature of oddd , and positional cloning reveal that these mouse carry a mutation in gja1 that act in a dominant - negative fashion to disrupt gap junction assembly and function [ 17 ] .
on the basis of our result , we can not rule out the possibility that eph / ephrin signaling might also impinge on osteogenic differentiation directly by activate signal transduction cascade ( that would not involve the pdz domain of ephrin - b1 ) .
however , the cytoplasmic kinase that be know target of eph / ephrin signaling ( src family kinase and mapks ) have be show to be positive regulator of osteogenic differentiation , which be not consistent with the inhibition of differentiation that we observe in vivo and in vitro .
moreover , we have not be able to detect a change in the level of mapk activation in ephrin - b1 + / − culture ( unpublished data ) .
we find that ephrin - b1 and cx43 form a complex and that follow engagement by eph receptor , ephrin - b1 and cx43 co-localize in cluster that could be indicative of endocytosis .
recent report have show that eph / ephrins complex be internalize follow interaction [ 29 – 31 ] , and endocytosis be also a well - known mode of regulation of connexons at the cell surface [ 32 ] .
in both case , piece of the plasma membrane from neighboring cell be internalize .
it be therefore conceivable that cx43 might be co-internalized with eph / ephrin complex .
however , it be also possible that endocytosis of connexons be regulate via a signal transduction cascade , since it have be show recently that eph / ephrin signaling regulate clathrin - mediate endocytosis by tyrosine phosphorylation of synaptojanin 1 [ 33 ] .
tyrosine phosphorylation of cx43 be also a mechanism by which gjc be regulate .
in our pull - down assay , wild - type ephrin - b1 interact preferentially with phosphorylated cx43 whereas ephrin - b1 δ pdz interact preferentially with unphosphorylated cx43 , suggest that the interaction between ephrin - b1 and cx43 might not be direct , and that these protein might interact differently when at the cell surface or in the cytoplasm .
regulation of gjc and cell sorting
we observe that junctional cx43 be enrich at interface between ephrin - b1 – positive cell , suggest that while gjc be inhibit at eph / ephrin interface , it might be promote at ephrin / ephrin interface .
this observation , as well a the fact that overexpression of cx43 lead to cell sorting , support the idea that regulation of gjc contribute to eph / ephrin - induce cell sorting .
although gjc have not be formally link to cell sorting previously , there be ample evidence in the literature that regulation of gjc influence cell – cell contact .
indeed , it have be show in various experimental setting that inhibit gjc , either through the use of block antibody or dominant negative construct , induce loss of adhesion [ 34 – 37 ] .
in xenopus , both overexpression of ephrin - b1 and dominant - negative connexin result in de-adhesion of the blastomere [ 36 , 38 ] .
sort of cell overexpressing cx43 have also be report previously in pc12 cell [ 39 ] .
we therefore propose that regulation of gjc contribute to cell sorting downstream of eph / ephrin interaction ( figure 9a ) .
a question that remain unanswered be whether or not the cell sorting observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygote be fully dependent on eph receptor .
interestingly , an eph - independent role for ephrin - b1 in regulate tight junction have recently be report [ 40 ] , and it be recently show that epha4 can induce cell sorting independently of ephrins [ 41 , 42 ] .
however , the fact that some cfns patient harbor point mutation in the extracellular domain of ephrin - b1 that presumably have an effect on eph / ephrin interaction argue for the involvement of eph receptor in the sort process .
on the basis of our data , we propose a model that explain the dominant effect of mosaic loss of ephrin - b1 in ephrin - b1 heterozygous female , and that revisit the function of eph / ephrin in embryo patterning ( figure 9b ) .
in wild - type mouse and within a developmental compartment , ephrin - express cell establish gjc which stabilize cell – cell interaction and create a communication compartment .
in ephrin - b1 heterozygote as well a at a developmental boundary , gjc be inhibit between ephrin - positive and eph - positive cell , possibly via endocytosis of cx43 , which prevent stable cell – cell interaction and lead to the formation of distinct compartment .
inhibition of gjc at developmental boundary have be show in a variety of model , include inter-rhombomeric boundary [ 12 , 43 ] , which also happen to be eph / ephrin boundary .
in addition , overexpression of cx43 have recently be show to rescue a central nervous system boundary defect in mouse [ 44 ] .
in conclusion , our work demonstrate that in addition to their prominent role in regulate the actin cytoskeleton , eph receptor and ephrins also play an important role in regulate gap junctional communication and suggest that improper regulation of gjc lead to the phenotype observe in ephrin - b1 heterozygous individual .
together , these function make eph receptor and ephrins potent regulator of boundary formation and tissue patterning during embryonic development .
material and method
mouse .
ephrin - b1 mutant mouse and cmv - cx43 transgenic mouse have be describe elsewhere [ 8 , 22 ] .
the ephrin - b2gfp allele be generate by insert the h2bgfp cdna cassette at the mlui site in the first exon of ephrin - b2 .
the mlui - xbai fragment encompass the start codon of the ephrin - b2 gene be replace with h2bgfp .
the mutation be introduce in e cell by homologous recombination .
mouse be maintain in a 129s4 / c57bl6j mixed background .
genotyping be do by pcr use the follow set of primer : gfp - f : 5 ′ - gcaagaaggcggtgactaaggcgc - 3 ′ ; gfp - r : 5 ′ - ggccgccgccagtgcttgaggtcg - 3 ′ .
mouse be house in microisolator rack in a facility accredit by the association for the assessment and accreditation of laboratory animal care , and experimentation be review by the hutchinson center institutional review committee .
the e cell carry the ephrin - b1 δ pdz mutation have be describe previously [ 8 ] .
the sequence of the primer specific to the mutant allele be : 5 ′ - gccatgctgggccttcact - 3 ′ .
to obtain ephrin - b1 null e cell , one clone of target e cell carry the conditional allele of ephrin - b1 ( ephrin - b1lox ) be electroporated with a pgk - cre expression vector .
e cell clone be isolate and screen by southern - blot for the recombined ephrin - b1 locus .
target e cell be inject into blastocyst obtain from cross between f1 ( 129s4 / c57bl6j ) rosa26 - β gal homozygous male and either wild - type c57bl6j / cbaj or mf1 female .
x - gal staining and skeletal preparation .
procedure use for x - gal staining and skeletal preparation have be describe in detail elsewhere [ 8 ] .
for the experiment with mouse carry the cmv - cx43 transgene , quantification of the foramen area between frontal bone be perform use photoshop ( adobe , san jose , california , united state ) to record the number of pixel correspond to the foramen .
the mean value for female with ( 97,901 pixel ) and without ( 117,391 pixel ) the transgene be then normalize to the mean value obtain for male ( 91,824 pixel ) ( no significant difference be find between male with or without the transgene , n = 10 ) .
statistical significance be calculate use an unpaired t - test with welch correction .
in situ hybridization .
section in situ hybridization experiment be perform on frontal section of e14.5 embryo a describe previously [ 45 ] .
whole - mount in situ hybridization be perform accord to a protocol describe elsewhere [ 46 ] .
probe sequence use for ephrin - b1 , ephb2 , and ephb3 be available upon request .
primary culture .
presumptive frontal bone mesenchyme be dissect from e14.5 embryo and incubate with 1 % trypsin / 0.5 % dnase in pb for 10 min at 37 °c .
trypsin be inactivate by addition of complete medium ( dmem contain 15 % fcs ) and cell be dissociate by trituration with a glass pasteur pipette .
cell be pelleted by centrifugation and wash twice in complete medium .
cell be plat at high density in a 24 - well plate and keep in culture in complete medium .
after 3 d , cell be fix in 2 % pfa and rinse three time in ntmt .
ap activity be detect by incubate fixed cell with nbt / bcip ( roche , basel , switzerland ) .
some culture be far process for immunofluorescence a describe below .
quantification of ap activity be perform on digital image use the image j software ( http://rsb.info.nih.gov/ij ) .
the data present be representative of five independent experiment .
primary nccs be isolate from dissect branchial arch of e9.5 embryo a describe above , except cell be culture in f12 medium supplement with 10 % fcs .
gjc assay .
nih 3t3 cell be stably transfected with expression vector for ephrin - b1 , eph - b2 receptor , or the pcdna3 control vector .
recipient cell be plat at high density .
donor cell ( nih 3t3 express ephrin - b1 or primary nccs ) be incubate with calcein - am ( molecular probe , eugene , oregon , united state ) for 20 min at 37 °c .
calcein - am load cell ( donor ) be extensively wash in pb , trypsinized , and drop onto confluent monolayers of nih 3t3 cell transfected with either pcdna3 or express ephrin - b1 or various level of eph - b2 .
transfer of calcein - am through gap junction be assess after 3 h incubation at 37 °c .
gjc establishment be quantify by two mean for each condition : ( 1 ) the percentage of cell that be spread and have transfer the dye versus cell that be spread but do not transfer the dye ; and ( 2 ) the number of cell receive the dye for each donor .
these data be acquire by visual assessment either directly on the invert microscope or from digital image .
statistical significance be calculate use a student t - test .
western blot analysis .
cell be scrap in 1 % np40 lysis buffer ( 50 mm hepes [ ph 7.5 ] , 150 mm nacl , 10 % glycerol , 1.5 mm mgcl2 , 1 mm egta , 100 mm naf ) , except for the experiment present in figure 7a ( 100 mm tris [ ph 7.4 ] , 150 mm nacl , 1 mm edta ) .
protein lysates be incubate with either 5 - μg ephb2 - fc or 4 - μg cx43 monoclonal antibody ( generous gift from p. lampe ) for 4 h at 4 °c and subsequently with 20 - μl proteina - sepharose .
affinity complex be analyze by sd - page use the follow antibody : ephrin - b1 ( a20 or c18 , santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , california , united state ) , cx43 ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
we have note that the binding of cx43 to ephrin - b1 be sensitive to the lysis buffer use : the interaction be lose in ripa buffer .
immunofluorescence .
nih 3t3 cell be plat on glass coverslips and transiently transfected with an expression vector for ephrin - b1 .
forty hour after transfection , cell be either fix in 2 % pfa or incubate with 4 - μg / ml ephb2 - fc for 30 min at 37 °c and then fix in pfa .
cell be permeabilized with 0.1 % tx - 100 for 3 min , rinse in pb , and incubate with a mix of ephb2 - fc ( 4 μg / ml ) and either cx43 monoclonal antibody or n - cadherin monoclonal antibody ( zymed , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
in primary cell , ephrin - b1 be detect use the 25h11 rat monoclonal antibody [ 47 ] .
fitc - and cy3 - conjugated secondary antibody be from jackson immunoresearch ( west grove , pennsylvania , united state ) .
for the sorting experiment , hek293t cell be transiently transfected with either dsred or a cx43 expression construct .
twenty - four hour after transfection , cell be trypsinized into a single - cell suspension and replated onto glass coverslips .
immunofluorescence be perform at 48 h post-transfection use a cx43 antibody ( sigma ) .
for immunofluorescence on section , paraffin section be rehydrated and subject to a citrate boil to reveal antigen .
tissue section be block in blocking solution ( pb / 5 % horse serum ) 1 h at room temperature and incubate overnight at 4 °c in cx43 antibody ( 1 / 100 in blocking solution [ sigma ] ) .
incubation with the cy3 - conjugated secondary antibody be for 1 h at room temperature ( 1 / 250 in blocking solution ) .
the number of cx43 dot be count on digital image acquire on a delta vision deconvolution microscope ( applied precision inc. , issaquah , washington , united state ) .
the number of cx43 dot be normalize to the number of junction : for each section , we evaluate the number of wild - type / knock - out ( ko ) junction ( 15 – 20 ) and count a similar number of wild - type / wild - type and ko / ko junction on each side of the wild - type / ko boundary .
support information
figure s1
patterning of the vibrissa bud be alter in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo
( a ) whole e14.5 embryo be stain with h & e to highlight whisker bud of ephrin - b1y / − hemizygous male ( a ) and ephrin - b1 + / − heterozygous female ( b ) .
x - gal staining of e14.5 ephrin - b1 + / lox embryo carry the r26r and wnt1 - cre allele ( c ) .
the patterning of vibrissa bud be abnormal in heterozygote but not homozygote mutant .
this defect be autonomous to the ncc lineage since eliminate ephrin - b1 specifically in this lineage be sufficient to phenocopy the vibrissa bud defect ( c ) .
( b ) in situ hybridization on frontal section of e14.5 wild - type embryo use probe for ephrin - b1 ( a ) and ephb2 ( b ) show expression of these gene in the mesenchyme around vibrissa bud ( arrowhead ) .
( 3.0 mb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
calvarial defect and decrease osteogenic differentiation
( a ) skeleton preparation of whole head from e17.5 littermate embryo , ephrin - b2 + / gfp single heterozygous mutant ( a ) , ephrin - b1 + / − single heterozygous female ( b ) , and ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp double heterozygous female ( c ) .
ectopic bone can be see in the suture mesenchyme of ephrin - b1 / ephrin - b2 double heterozygous female ( arrowhead in c ) and the foramen between the frontal bone be large than in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo .
an outline of the bone be present for good visualization ( d – f ) .
( b ) ap staining on cryosections of e15.5 embryo .
a wild - type ( a ) , an ephrin - b1 null male ( b ) , and an ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp double heterozygous female ( c ) be show .
bone front in the control embryo ( a ) and ( b ) be close to the midline than bone front in the heterozygous littermate ( c ) .
in addition , the thickness of the bone be decrease in the ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp double heterozygous female .
both observation show that differentiation of the frontal bone be decrease in the heterozygote .
( 2.2 mb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
ephrin - b1 and cx43 distribution in primary culture and differentiate frontal bone of ephrin - b1 + / − embryo
( a ) ephrin - b1 be detect by immunofluorescence in culture of primary mesenchymal cell ( a ) and ( c ) that be also stain for ap activity ( b ) and ( d ) .
expression of ephrin - b1 be readily detect a a punctate staining on these primary cell , both in ap - positive ( a ) and ( b ) and in ap - negative cell ( c ) and ( d ) .
( b ) western blot analysis of cx43 level in primary culture of mesenchymal cell isolate from littermates of various genotype .
no difference in the overall cx43 level be detect .
( c ) paraffin section from e12.5 control embryo ( ephrin - b1y / − ) ( a ) and ( b ) and ephrin - b1 + / − embryo ( c ) and ( d ) be stain for ap activity ( a ) and ( c ) and subsequently process for cx43 immunostaining ( b ) and ( d ) .
ap staining in the develop frontal bone of ephrin - b1 + / − embryo be more irregular than in the control embryo , consistent with the result present in figure 3 .
however , no significant difference can be see in the overall staining for cx43 in this tissue .
( 878 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
ephrin - b1 δ pdz chimeric embryo do not exhibit calvarial defect
( a ) skeletal preparation of whole head from e18.5 ephrin - b1δpdz chimeric embryo show low ( a ) and high ( b ) contribution of mutant e cell , assess by pcr on tail dna ( c ) .
( b ) skeletal preparation of e18.5 wild - type ( a ) , ephrin - b1 − / − ( b ) , and ephrin - b1δpdz chimera ( c ) and ( d ) show that chimeric embryo exhibit sternum defect reminiscent of ephrin - b1 null embryo .
( 1.1 mb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank cecilia lo for share the cmv - cx43 mouse ; mark henkemeyer for provide the eph - b2 expression construct and the in situ probe for ephb2 ; paul lampe for share his cx43 antibody and the cx43 expression construct ; wieland huttner for the 25h11 rat monoclonal antibody [ 47 ] ; philip corrin , jason frazier , and marc grenley for excellent technical assistance ; and our laboratory colleague for critical reading of the manuscript .
abbreviation
ap - alkaline phosphatase
cfns - craniofrontonasal syndrome
cx43 - connexin43
e - embryonic stem
gfp - green fluorescent protein
gjc - gap junction communication
ko - knock - out
ncc - neural crest cell
figure and table
figure 1
ephrin - b1 + / − embryo exhibit defect in ncc derivative
( a ) skeleton preparation of whole head from e18.5 mutant embryo ( a – c ) .
bone be stain with alizarin red while cartilage be stain with alcian blue .
an opening ( foramen ) between frontal bone be observe in ephrin - b1 + / − heterozygous female ( b ) but not in ephrin - b1 − / − homozygous female ( a ) .
mutant embryo in which ephrin - b1 be specifically delete in ncc also exhibit defect of the frontal bone ( c ) .
arrowhead show the bone front of the frontal bone .
schematic drawing of the frontal bone ( d – f ) .
( b ) skeleton preparation of whole head from e18.5 embryo ( a – c ) or e15.5 embryo ( d – f ) show that ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo present an additional coronal suture defect ( c ) and ( f ) a compare to ephrin - b1 + / − single heterozygous female ( b ) and ( e ) .
at e18.5 , bone front never overlap at coronal suture of ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo , and ectopic bone form in the suture mesenchyme ( arrow in [ c ] ) .
at e15.5 , parietal and frontal bone front form the coronal suture ( arrow ) of ephrin - b1 + / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp embryo ( f ) be far apart than in control littermates ( d ) and ( e ) .
coronal suture and frontal bone be normal in single ephrin - b2 + / gfp heterozygous mutant ( a ) and in ephrin - b1y / − / ephrin - b2 + / gfp male ( d ) .
fb , frontal bone ; pb , parietal bone .
figure 2
expression of ephrin - b1 and ephb2 be abnormal in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo
( a ) in situ hybridization on frontal section of e14.5 wild - type embryo use probe for ephrin - b1 ( a ) , ephb2 ( b ) , or ephb3 ( c ) .
ephrin - b1 be express throughout the develop frontal bone ( mark by dot line ) as well a in the meningeal layer ( arrowhead ) .
expression of ephb2 be restrict ventrally ( arrowhead ) whereas ephb3 be express throughout the develop frontal bone .
( b ) in situ hybridization of wild - type ( a ) , ( c ) , and ( e ) or ephrin - b1 + / − embryo ( b ) , ( d ) , and ( f ) use a probe for ephrin - b1 ( a ) and ( b ) , ephrin - b2 ( c ) and ( d ) and ephb2 ( e ) and ( f ) .
both ephrin - b1 and ephb2 show sort in the telencephalon and the craniofacial mesenchyme of ephrin - b1 + / − embryo ( arrowhead ) while expression of ephrin - b2 be unaffected .
figure 3
calvarial foramen correlate with impaired osteogenic differentiation
( a ) e11.5 embryo carry the r26r and wnt1 - cre allele be process for x - gal staining to label nccs .
no difference in the osteogenic precursor population ( arrow ) be detect in ephrin - b1 + / − female ( b ) a compare to wild type ( a ) .
( b ) e12.5 wild - type ( a ) , ephrin - b1y / − ( b ) , and ephrin - b1 + / − ( c ) embryo be stain for ap activity .
the onset of osteogenic differentiation do not seem affected in the mutant embryo , but ap staining pattern be irregular in the heterozygote mutant a compare to wild - type and homozygote mutant , with area devoid of staining ( arrow ) .
( c ) primary mesenchymal cell be isolate from presumptive calvaria of e14.5 ephrin - b1y / − hemizygous male ( a ) or ephrin - b1 + / − heterozygous female ( b ) and plat at high density .
ap activity be evaluate after 3 d in culture .
digital quantification of ap activity ( c ) .
figure 4
decrease osteogenic differentiation correlate with abnormal distribution of cx43
( a ) primary mesenchymal cell isolate from presumptive calvaria of wild - type ( a ) and ( b ) or ephrin - b1 + / − embryo ( c ) and ( d ) be stain for ap activity ( a ) and ( c ) and subsequently process for cx43 immunofluorescence ( b ) and ( d ) .
junctional cx43 evidence by bright dot be readily detect in culture from wild - type embryo ( wt ) , but not in culture from ephrin - b1 + / − embryo .
( b ) detection of cx43 by immunofluorescence in limb bud section of an x - gal – stain chimeric embryo obtain by inject ephrin - b1 null cell into a rosa26 - βgal blastocyst .
gap junctional cx43 appear a bright dot ( a ) .
the boundary between wild - type cell ( dark cell in [ c ] ) and ephrin - b1 null cell ( white cell in [ c ] ) be indicate by red arrow .
a schematic representation of the result be show ( b ) .
grey cell be wild type and white cell be ephrin - b1 null .
cx43 dot be in red , whereas yellow in ( b ) mark the only cx43 dot that might be between a wild - type and a null cell .
quantification of cx43 dot in multiple section show a reduction in the number of cx43 dot between wild - type and null cell ( wt - ko ) ( d ) .
figure 5
eph / ephrin interaction inhibit gap junction communication
( a ) nih 3t3 cell stably express ephrin - b1 be load with calcein - am and drop onto monolayers of nih 3t3 cell either not express ( a ) or express variable level ( b ) and ( c ) of eph - b2 receptor .
transfer of dye to neighbor cell ( arrowhead ) be evaluate by fluorescence after 3 h .
no dye transfer ( arrow ) be observe when high level of eph - b2 be express .
( b ) primary nccs be load with calcein - am and drop onto nih 3t3 cell that be transfected either with a control plasmid ( pcdna3 [ a ] ) , or an expression construct for ephrin - b1 ( b ) or eph - b2 ( c ) .
in the control situation , the majority of cell transfer the dye ( arrowhead ) .
the boxed area be show at high magnification in ( d ) .
transfer of dye be visualize by faint staining of cell surround the very bright donor cell .
follow eph / ephrin interaction , many of the donor cell do not transfer the dye ( arrow ) .
box area in ( b ) be show at high magnification in ( e ) and ( f ) .
cell transfer the dye ( f ) and cell not transfer the dye ( e ) be able to spread .
( c ) the percentage of cell that have spread and show transfer of dye be evaluate after 3 hour ( a ) .
in addition , the number of receive cell for each donor cell be count ( b ) .
* p < 0.05 compare to control .
figure 6
ephrin - b1 and cx43 co-localize and interact with each other
( a ) primary mesenchymal be co-stained for cx43 ( [ a ] , red in [ c ] ) and ephrin - b1 ( [ b ] , green in [ c ] ) .
( b ) nih 3t3 cell be transiently transfected with ephrin - b1 and co-immunofluorescence study be perform to detect cx43 ( a ) and ( d ) and ephrin - b1 ( b ) and ( e ) either without ( a – c ) or with engagement of ephrin - b1 ( d – f ) .
in untreated cell , cx43 be enrich at interface between ephrin express cell and co-localizes with ephrin - b1 ( c ) .
engagement by ephb2 - fc result in clustering of ephrin - b1 ( e ) and cx43 partially co-localizes with ephrin - b1 cluster ( f ) .
inset present high magnification view .
( c ) ephrin - b1 be affinity precipitate from nih 3t3 cell use ephb2 - fc .
the presence of cx43 in the affinity complex be assess by western - blot ( a ) .
protein lysates from nih 3t3 cell express ephrin - b1 be incubate with ephrinb1 - fc , and the presence of cx43 in the affinity complex be assess by western blot ( b )
cx43 be immunoprecipitated from nih 3t3 cell express ephrin - b1 and the presence of ephrin - b1 in the immunocomplexes be detect by western blot ( right panel ) .
ip , immunoprecipitation ; wcl , whole cell lysate .
figure 7
regulation of gjc correlate with cell sorting
( a ) nih 3t3 cell be transiently transfected with either wild - type ephrin - b1 ( b1 ) , ephrin - b1δpdz ( δpdz ) , or a control plasmid ( − ) .
protein lysates be incubate with ephb2 - fc , and the presence of cx43 in the affinity complex be assess by western blot .
prota indicate a sample that be incubate with protein a in absence of ephb2 - fc .
whole cell lysates ( a ) and affinity precipitation ( b ) be analyze by western blot .
np , non phosphorylated cx43 ; p1 , p2 , two different form of phosphorylated cx43 ; wcl , whole cell lysate .
( b ) nih 3t3 cell be transiently transfected with ephrin - b1δpdz and treat with ephb2 - fc .
subcellular localization of cx43 ( a ) and ephrin - b1δpdz ( b ) be analyze by immunofluorescence .
no co-localization be observe between these two protein ( c ) .
( c ) paraffin section of limb bud from e11.5 chimeric embryo obtain from injection of either ephrin - b1 null e cell ( k / o ) ( a ) or ephrin - b1δpdz e cell ( δpdz ) ( b ) .
chimeric embryo be x - gal stain , process for histology , and paraffin section be counter-stained with nuclear fast red .
the wild - type cell be blue whereas the mutant cell be red .
cell express ephrin - b1δpdz do not sort from wild - type cell .
( d ) hek293t cell overexpressing cx43 be detect by immunofluorescence a a tightly pack cluster of cell ( a ) whereas cell express dsred be scatter among non-expressing cell ( b ) .
( c ) and ( d ) show the visible image for the same field of cell .
figure 8
partial rescue of the calvarial defect in ephrin - b1 + / − mouse overexpressing cx43
skeleton preparation from an ephrin - b1y / − male ( a ) , an ephrin - b1 + / − female ( b ) and an ephrin - b1 + / − female carry the cmv - cx43 transgene ( c ) .
quantification ( d ) of the foramen area between the frontal bone of an ephrin - b1 + / − female ( b1 + / − ) and an ephrin - b1 + / − female carry the cmv - cx43 transgene ( cmv - cx43 ; b1 + / − ) .
mean value for the female with and without the transgene be normalize to the value obtain for male .
the number of embryo for each genotype be indicate .
error bar represent standard error of the mean value .
* p = 0.0224 .
figure 9
mosaic loss of ephrin - b1 and establishment of developmental boundary
( a ) potential cross-talk between gap junction and adherens junction .
ephrin - b1 co-localizes with cx43 in junctional plaque .
co-regulation of gap junction and adherens junction have be extensively study .
( b ) establishment of communication compartment for embryo patterning .
within a compartment and in the develop calvarial bone , all cell express ephrin - b1 and be couple via gjc , exchange second messenger ( black dot ) .
at a developmental boundary and at ectopic ephrin boundary in ephrin - b1 + / − embryo , eph / ephrin interaction lead to inhibition of gjc , possibly through endocytosis of cx43 , concomitant with a loss of stable cell – cell interaction between the two cell type .
sort between these cell and inhibition of gjc concur to establish distinct developmental compartment .
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
ad and p conceive and design the experiment .
ad and job perform the experiment .
ad , job , and p analyze the data .
ad and p write the paper .
fund .
this work be support by grant hd24875 and hd25326 from the national institute of child health and human development to p .
ad be a canadian institute of health research postdoctoral fellow .
job be the recipient of a f32 postdoctoral fellowship from the national institute of dental and craniofacial research ( de17506 ) .
adenomatous polyposis coli ( apc ) be require for normal development of skin and thymus
abstract
the tumor suppressor gene apc ( adenomatous polyposis coli ) be a member of the wnt signaling pathway that be involve in development and tumorigenesis .
heterozygous knockout mouse for apc have a tumor predisposition phenotype and homozygosity lead to embryonic lethality .
to understand the role of apc in development we generate a floxed allele .
these mouse be mat with a strain carry cre recombinase under the control of the human keratin 14 ( k14 ) promoter , which be active in basal cell of epidermis and other stratified epithelium .
mouse homozygous for the floxed allele that also carry the k14 - cre transgene be viable but have stunt growth and die before weaning .
histological and immunochemical examination reveal that k14 - cre – mediated apc loss result in aberrant growth in many ectodermally derive squamous epithelium , include hair follicle , teeth , and oral and corneal epithelium .
in addition , squamous metaplasia be observe in various epithelial - derived tissue , include the thymus .
the aberrant growth of hair follicle and other appendage as well a the thymic abnormality in k14 - cre ; apccko / cko mouse suggest the apc gene be crucial in embryonic cell to specify epithelial cell fate in organ that require epithelial – mesenchymal interaction for their development .
synopsis
patient with familial adenomatous polyposis ( fap ) and it variant , gardner 's syndrome , will develop hundred of colorectal polyp .
it be a heritable disease that be link to a genetic mutation in the tumor suppressor gene apc ( adenomatous polyposis coli ) .
these individual also develop extracolonic symptom , among which be congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium , desmoid tumor , epidermoid cyst , disorder of the maxillary and skeletal bone , and dental abnormality , suggest the importance of apc function in these organ .
to understand the role of apc in development and in organ other than intestine , we generate apc mutant mouse that can conditionally delete the gene when expose to cre recombinase .
these mouse be mat with k14 ( keratin 14 ) – cre mouse that express cre recombinase in skin and it appendage .
the author find that the mutant mouse that have lose apc in k14 - cre transgene – express tissue be viable , but have stunt growth and die before wean .
these mutant mouse show developmental abnormality not only in skin but also in many epithelial - derived tissue , include teeth and thymus .
this work demonstrate the importance of apc in development of many organ , and provide new insight into diagnosis and management of patient with apc mutation .
introduction
adenomatous polyposis coli ( apc ) be a member of the wnt signaling pathway and one of it known function be to regulate the level of β - catenin .
alteration in β - catenin regulation be very common in human tumor [ 1 ] .
loss of apc be associate with stabilization of the cytosolic β - catenin that ultimately result in it migration to the nucleus and activate a cascade of event lead to tumorigenesis .
apc also interact with a multitude of other cellular protein , include axin - 2 ( axin2 ) , plakoglobin ( jup ) , asef ( arhgef4 ) , kinesin superfamily – associate protein 3 ( kifap3 ) , eb1 ( mapre1 ) , microtubule , and the human homolog of drosophila disc large ( dlg1 ) .
these interaction suggest that apc can potentially regulate many cellular function , include intercellular adhesion , cytoskeletal organization , regulation of plakoglobin level , regulation of the cell cycle and apoptosis , orientation of asymmetric stem cell division , and control of cell polarization [ 2 , 3 ] .
apc be a tumor suppressor gene .
somatic mutation in apc be frequently find in many sporadic tumor of the colon and rectum .
autosomal dominant germline mutation in apc cause familial adenomatous polypois ( fap ) and it variant , gardner syndrome .
fap patient be characterize by hundred of adenomatous colorectal polyp , with an almost inevitable progression to colorectal cancer in the third and fourth decade of life [ 4 , 5 ] .
in addition to colorectal neoplams , these individual can develop extracolonic symptom , among which be upper gastrointestinal tract polyp , congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium , desmoid tumor , disorder of the maxillary and skeletal bone , and dental abnormality [ 6 ] , suggest the importance of apc gene function in these organ system .
although the role of apc in the initiation of human colorectal cancer be well established , it role in other tissue and developmental process be not well understand .
give the importance of regulation of wnt signaling in embryonic pattern formation and morphogenesis of many organ , mechanistic understanding of apc in development and in extracolonic tissue become critical to well assess potential adverse event in human .
one approach to understand the role of apc in development be to develop mouse with an inactivate apc mutation .
several genetically modify mouse strain for apc have be describe [ 7 – 10 ] .
most of these model , in the heterozygous state , show a gastrointestinal and other tumor predisposition phenotype [ 7 – 10 ] .
mouse embryo that be homozygous for the genetic modification die during embryogenesis , and some of the model do not survive beyond gastrulation [ 8 , 11 ] .
an alternate approach to understand the role of apc in development and / or in specific tissue be to generate a mouse strain that carry a conditionally modify allele and mate it with a mouse strain that facilitate the modification of the conditional allele in specific cell lineage .
to assess the role of apc in different stage of life systematically , we generate mouse contain a conditional knockout ( cko ) mutant allele of apc ( apccko ) .
these mouse be mat with a strain carry cre recombinase under the control of the human keratin 14 ( k14 ) promoter , which be active in basal cell of epidermis and other stratified epithelium .
we report here that k14 promoter - drive loss of apc result in aberrant development of several organ that require inductive epithelial – mesenchymal interaction , include hair follicle , teeth , and thymus , and result in neonatal death in mouse .
we find that apc play a crucial role in determination of cell fate during the embryonic development , possibly via temporal and tissue - specific regulation of β - catenin level in the skin , it appendage , and in the thymus .
result
generation of the apccko and apcδ580 mouse
to investigate the role of apc in development of skin and it appendage , we use the cre / loxp technology to introduce a conditional mutation of the apc gene in mouse .
we construct embryonic stem ( e ) cell and mouse carry an apc allele harbor both a pair of loxp site flank apc exon 14 and a pair of flp recognition target ( frt ) site flank pgk - neomycin selection cassette by recombineering [ 12 , 13 ] ( figure 1a , apcckon allele , n for neomycin cassette ) .
a pgk - neomycin cassette be insert in the same transcriptional orientation a apc in intron 14 of the endogenous gene .
the loxp and frt site be use to aid unidirectional recombination [ 12 , 13 ] .
two mouse line contain the same modification be generate from two independent e clone to ensure that these two line behave in the same way .
these apcckon / + mouse be cross with flpe - deleter to generate apccko / + mouse that be heterozygous for the final apc conditional ( apccko ) allele that remove the pgk - neomycin cassette and contain only the loxp site in the intron flank exon 14 .
to assess the effect of delete exon 14 in mouse , both line of apccko / + mouse be cross with the cre - deleter to generate the germline knockout line of apc , designate apcδ580 / + .
the mutant allele ( apcδ580 ) lack exon 14 ( figure 1a ) .
the transcript from loss of exon 14 result in a shift in the normal reading frame , result in a premature chain termination codon which , if utilize , would result in a truncate polypeptide that be 605 aa in length , of which the first 580 aa correspond to the normal apc protein .
southern blot analysis of tail dna from f1 offspring of both apcckon and apcδ580 line confirm the germline transmission of modify apc allele ( figure 1b ) .
mouse that be heterozygous for apcδ580 mutation be viable but have a significantly reduce lifespan ( figure 1c ) .
these result suggest that deletion of exon 14 indeed result in either loss or abnormal function of the apc gene product .
apcδ580 / + mouse have median survival of 5 mo of age ( figure 1c ) , with progressive sign of rectal bleeding and anemia .
similar to the result report with an independently generate apcδ580 / + conditional mouse strain [ 14 ] , apcδ580 / + mouse have more than 100 ( 120 ± 37 , n = 11 ) intestinal tumor at the time of their death ( figure s1 ) .
inactivation of wild - type apc be an important prerequisite for tumor development .
we analyze 30 intestinal tumor from apcδ580 / + mouse by in vitro transcription and translation assay , but none of them show truncate apc product ( unpublished data ) , indicate that the most likely mechanism of wild - type apc inactivation be by allelic loss .
the mutant allele have to be maintain and transmit through male mouse , a apcδ580 / + female be frequently not healthy enough to successfully nurse their own pup because of their tumor burden .
apccko / + mouse be intercrossed to generate apccko / cko offspring .
approximately one - quarter of the offspring ( 17 of 81 ) be homozygous for the apccko allele .
these mouse as well a heterozygous mouse for apccko allele be normal , show no difference in their survival to the wild - type littermates ( figure 1c ) .
we test whether our apccko allele can compliment the wild - type allele by cross the apccko / cko female with apcδ580 / + male mouse .
the resultant apccko / δ580 offspring be viable and bear in the mendelian ratio , suggest that the presence of loxp site in intron flank exon 14 have no adverse effect on the function of the apc gene .
k14 - drive loss of apc result in severe growth retardation and early lethality
to introduce the mutation of apc into cell express k14 , we cross ww6 e cell – derive [ 15 ] apccko / + mouse with k14 - cre recombinase mouse in fvb background [ 16 ] .
the k14 - cre ; apccko / + mouse be normal in appearance and be fertile .
k14 - cre ; apccko / + male be cross to apccko / cko female to avoid the potential deleter effect in oocyte of k14 - cre – positive female [ 17 ] .
the mouse be intercrossed thereafter for maintenance ; hence , the mouse use for analysis be in a mix background of fvb , 129 / s , and c57bl / 6 in similar proportion , with minimal contribution of sj .
the k14 promoter be a commonly use epidermal cell promoter because of it expression by the mitotically active cell of the epidermis and it appendage in mature skin [ 18 ] , but most notably it be active in embryonic ectoderm as early a the single layer ectodermal stage of embryonic day ( e ) 9.5 [ 19 ] .
a restricted expression of k14 be also find in thymic epithelial cell ( tec ) in the medulla of normal thymus [ 20 ] .
we genotyped a total of 458 pup ( 8 – 10 d old ) from 67 litter result from cross between k14 - cre ; apccko / + and apccko / cko mouse .
the mutant mouse of the genotype k14 - cre ; apccko / cko ( hereafter , ka mutant ) be bear , but the observe frequency of ka mutant be much less than expect ( 78 of 458 [ 17.0 % ] ; p < 0.0005 chi - square analysis , table 1 ) .
to assess the basis for the neonatal lethality of ka mutant , we monitor three litter from birth to wean by measure the body weight of each pup every day .
a total of 25 pup be bear from three litter , of which 7 ( 28 % ) be confirm to be k14 - cre ; apccko / cko by genotyping , indicate that ka mutant be bear in the expect mendelian ratio .
the ka mutant pup be nurse normally , and there be milk in their stomach during the first 2 or 3 d after birth , but they fail to thrive ( figure 2 ) .
by postnatal day ( p ) 8 – 10 , at the time of genotyping , many ka mutant pup be considerably small than their littermates ( figure 2b – 2f ) and some have die at or prior to this age .
none of ka mutant survive to wean age .
the ability of whole embryo to exclude blue dye be use to examine the epidermal barrier , normally acquire begin at e16 and complete by e18.5 [ 21 ] .
analysis of e17.5 – e18.5 ka mutant show that they be able to exclude blue dye , indicate that the epidermal barrier be intact ( figure s2 ) .
at these embryonic age , there be no difference in size between the mutant and their littermates , but the mutant show a patch of “ birthmark ” or dark pigmentation on their forehead and a dark median line that run caudally from head to tail .
their external ear or pinna be shriveled in appearance and pigmented compare to those of littermates .
external characteristic of ka mutant that be evident at e18.5 persist after birth and become more prominent a they grow ( figure 2a – 2f ) .
growth of pelage hair be generally delay in the mutant .
at around p8 , the ka mutant be hairless and have wrinkle skin while their phenotypically normal littermates have a smooth thin coat of hair ( figure 2b ) .
at this age , two low incisor start to erupt in normal littermates and these be absent in the ka mutant ( figure 2c and 2d ) .
animal also tend to be small and around p10 – p12 display abnormally short and misshapen vibrissa and short , shaggy pelage hair ( figure 2c and 2d ) .
development of thick ridge in their skin , particularly around the ear , eyelid , forehead , nose , and paw , become noticeable ( figure 2e ) .
these region look scaly , and these animal hardly keep their eye open .
in contrast to the normal littermates that consistently increase their body weight with age , survive ka mutant start to lose weight from p10 onwards ; by p16 – p17 they be all lethargic , and none of them survive to weaning ( figure 2e and 2f ) .
at the time of autopsy all the mutant be toothless , without incisor or molar , and their stomach be consistently small and have no solid food , unlike their age - matched littermates , suggest that the observe weight loss could be the result of failure to ingest solid food ( figure 2f ) .
interestingly , change in body weight and timing of hair growth vary considerably among mutant pup even if they be from the same litter , whereas those of phenotypically normal littermates tend to be similar .
this difference be also reflect in the variation in timing of death in mutant : some mutant pup be bear alive but die within a day or two , some survive close to the weaning age .
this variability of the mutant phenotype suggest possible variation in the timing and efficiency of cre - mediated apc deletion .
it be possible that the genetic background have a role to play in this variability .
gross examination of internal organ also show that the mutant ' thymus be consistently inconspicuous and be very small for their age , whereas those of their littermates be very prominent in size ( figure 2g ) .
this difference be evident as early a p3 .
quite frequently mutant thymus in p12 – p17 mutant mouse also contain black deposit within the tissue ( unpublished data ) .
mutant mouse be also examine for any skeletal abnormality by prepare skeletal specimen of p16 – p17 mouse stain with alizarin red .
no difference between the normal and ka mutant mouse in the mandibular bone can be detect , but the mutant mouse lack or have underdevelop set of maxillary incisor and molar ( figure 2h ) .
we detect no other major skeletal abnormality .
genotype - and tissue - specific expression of the truncate apc transcript
to assess the molecular effect of the k14 - cre – mediated recombination , we screen for the presence of delete apc ( apcδ580 ) allele .
genomic dna be extract from liver , thymus , and skin from all 4 possible genotype : k14 - cre ; apccko / cko , k14 - cre ; apccko / + , apccko / cko , and apccko / + .
genotyping on genomic dna from these tissue show that the apcδ580 allele ( 500 - bp product ) be detect only from the skin and thymus of the k14 - cre – positive mouse .
the presence of mutant apc allele in the thymus of k14 - cre ; apccko / + mouse be consistently much less than the dna from the skin of the same animal or other tissue from the ka mutant .
in addition , this product be not detect at all in either the liver of k14 - cre – positive or in any of the k14 - cre – negative mouse tissue sample , establish that cre - mediated recombination have take place in the tissue - specific manner in the mouse that inherit k14 - cre ( figure 3a ) .
apc transcript be also analyze by rt - pcr with primer span exon 14 ( figure 1a ) use total rna isolate from the correspond tissue sample .
we detect the expect rt - pcr product ( 313 bp ) from the truncate apc ( apcδ580 ) allele only in the tissue where cre recombinase be know to be express in the k14 - cre – positive mouse .
however , this product be not detect in either the k14 - cre – negative mouse tissue sample or the liver of k14 - cre – positive mouse , and only the product from the wild - type allele ( 528 bp ) be detect from these rna sample , far confirm that cre - mediated recombination have take place in the tissue - and genotype - specific manner ( figure 3b ) .
k14 - cre – driven apc loss induce aberrant hair follicle throughout the epidermis
to understand the basis for delay and abnormal hair development in the ka mutant , we conduct a histological and immunohistochemical examination ( figure 4 ) .
the hair follicle be an epidermal appendage that consist of an upper permanent portion , and a low cycling portion that produce the hair [ 22 , 23 ] .
the out root sheath ( or ) be contiguous with and biochemically similar to the basal layer of the epidermis .
the inner layer of the hair follicle include three concentric layer of inner root sheath and three concentric layer of hair - produce cell .
at the base of the hair follicle be the germinative hair follicle bulb , which contain rapidly proliferate “ matrix ” cell that differentiate to populate all of the layer of the inner root sheath and the hair shaft itself [ 22 ] .
during the anagen phase of the hair cycle ( until p15 ) , hair follicle of phenotypically normal mouse grow deeply into the subcutaneous fat and be uniformly space and align in parallel array at a specific angle relative to the skin surface ( figure 4a ) .
in contrast , ka mutant follicle be irregularly space and often see a disoriented and clamped invagination at p3 that become even more remarkable at p12 when the mutant mouse be cover by fur coat ( figure 4f ) .
bulb be often bent in addition to be irregularly angled to one another and their size and location be often variable .
cluster of multiple invagination or dysplastic follicular structure be frequently observe throughout the epidermis , whereas other region show gap with no follicle .
serial sectioning indicate that some of the hair follicle in the p12 mutant skin be not properly formed or short than normal .
take together , these feature could account for the apparently delay , follow by outgrowth , of the short and shaggy - looking fur coat of these mutant mouse .
apc be a regulator of β - catenin that be important for wnt signaling .
we examine the pattern of expression of β - catenin in the affected tissue .
in the normal skin , β - catenin , a member of the adherens junction complex , be find in the or of hair follicle and basal layer of epidermis , where k14 expression be also observe ( figure 4c and 4d ) , whereas the expression of k1 , involucrin , and loricrin ( marker for spinous and granular layer of epidermis ) be only observe in the nonbasal epidermis ( unpublished data ) .
the pattern of expression of k14 , k1 , involucrin , and loricrin , in skin from mutant and normal littermate mouse at p3 – p17 , show no significant difference in the terminal differentiation ( figure 4a – 4d , 4f – 4i ) .
similarly , the pattern of expression of k6 , which be normally only express in the suprabasal or inner layer of the or of the hair follicle but not in the epidermis ( figure 4e ) , do not change .
due to the abnormal and disorganized structure of hair follicle themselves , k6 localization highlight the histological abnormality ( figure 4j ) .
yet a in the normal skin , k6 be principally see only in the suprabasal layer of the or that do not colocalize with the basal marker , k14 or k5 ( figure 4i and 4j ) .
in normal skin , proliferate cell be detect in either the basal layer of epidermis or in germinative hair follicle bulb at the base ( figure 4b ) .
in the mutant skin , either brdu incorporation or ki67 expression be observe not only in cell in bulb at the base of the hair follicle but also in bulb - like structure that be bud out from the or of the exist hair follicle ( figure 4g and 4g ′ ) .
each bud tip be become like a hair follicle bulb contain proliferate cell .
hence , despite the abnormal histology in the mutant skin , proliferation seem to be confine to bulb - like structure a in the normal skin ( figure 4g and 4g ′ ) .
the exact location of hair follicle bulb be not as easy to define for some mutant follicle due to their disorganized structure .
interestingly , in the mutant skin , in addition to diffuse membrane - bound localization a in the normal skin , cell with strong cytosolic β - catenin localization be also observe frequently ( figure 4h and 4h ′ ) .
these elevated β - catenin – express cell be usually surround by proliferate cell , form bulb - like structure .
comparison of immunochemically stain serial section show that these intense cytosolic β - catenin staining be usually find in either k14 - positive k1 - negative basal epidermis or k14 - positive k6 - negative basal or cell , and be surround by proliferate cell .
to determine the initiation of hair follicle morphogenesis in these mutant , we examine the expression pattern of sonic hedgehog ( shh ) , a factor express in hair bulb in embryonic skin ( figure 5 ) .
the aberrant hair follicle morphogenesis be evident as early a e14.5 in mutant embryonic skin , by multiple apolarized expression of shh throughout the epidermis ( figure 5b ) , whereas that of control embryo be well polarized and regularly spaced ( figure 5a ) .
with development , control mouse hair follicle invaginate downward in a polarize manner ( figure 5c ) , whereas those of mutant embryo be completely irregular and apolarized ( figure 5d ) .
it be also note that the size of each “ budding ” follicle , a detect by shh expression , be variable ( figure 5d ) .
the intensity of shh staining be generally strong in mutant skin than in the normal skin .
the aberrant initiation of multiple hair placodes during early hair follicle morphogenesis be also evident by the whole - mount in situ hybridization ( ish ) of e15.5 mutant embryo for β - catenin ( figure 5f and 5f ′ ) .
the expression pattern of β - catenin in embryo clearly demonstrate the formation of regular array of hair placodes in the normal embryonic skin ( figure 5e and 5e ′ ) , but such regular patterning be lose , and often tightly cluster abnormal hair placodes be initiate in mutant embryonic skin ( figure 5f ′ ) .
aberrant hair placodes be also evident throughout the skin surface of limb in e15.5 mutant ( figure 5f ) , whereas those of the control embryo have not yet form ( figure 5e ) .
most interestingly , in the mutant footpad , where hair placodes do not normally form ( figure 5g ) , we also find ectopic irregularly size and space hair placodes , indicate that the footpad still have the potential to form hair placodes in the absence of the apc gene ( figure 5h ) .
these result collectively suggest that the terminal differentiation do take place normally in the mutant skin , but initiation of embryonic hair follicle morphogenesis be severely disrupt , accompany by a continuous ectopic hair follicle morphogenesis in postnatal mutant skin .
effect of k14 - cre – drive loss of apc in other epidermal appendage
similar to the biology of hair follicle , k14 - cre – drive loss of apc also affect the development of other epidermal appendage that depend on epithelial – mesenchymal interaction for their formation .
the most striking of these be dental dysplasia ( figure 4k – 4r ) .
tooth development be normally initiate between e11 and e12 by invagination of ectodermally derive oral epithelium into the underlie cranial neural crest – derive mesenchyme , generate a tooth germ .
despite the grossly toothless phenotype of ka mutant , histological analysis of their oral cavity reveal the formation of multiple tooth bud at each location .
these aberrant teeth obviously fail to grow out during the dietary transition from milk to solid food .
analogous to the expression pattern of k14 and β - catenin in the normal skin , diffuse membrane - bind expression of β - catenin be detect in k14 - express oral epithelium and ameloblast of normal mouse .
in mutant , some of the k14 - express cell also show strong cytosolic / nuclear β - catenin staining , a observe in the mutant skin ( figure 4q , 4q ′ , and 4r ) .
initiation of ectopic tooth bud in the mutant mouse be evident at e15.5 by extra dot of shh expression adjacent to the primary teeth ( data not show ) .
loss of apc also lead to hyperplasia in squamous epithelium of cornea , oral , salivary , and hardarian gland ( unpublished data ) .
squamous metaplasia to hair follicle – like structure , ectopic hair follicle morphogenesis be also observe in these epithelium .
k14 - cre – drive apc loss result in hypoplastic / athymic mouse
thymus be an organ that be also know to have k14 expression [ 16 ] .
it represent the primary lymphoid organ for thymocyte development and selection .
distinct population of tec of cortex and medulla mediate both of these critical function .
cortical and medullary tec subset be characterize by differential expression of four keratin specie : k8 , k18 , k5 , and k14 .
the normal thymus be a lobulated lymphoid organ , each lobule clearly show the two distinct tec compartment , an out cortex and an inner medulla ( figure 6 ) .
there be no major difference in the histology of thymus between the age p3 to p17 in phenotypically normal littermates .
a show in the h & e staining of thymus , the cortex be form of dense lymphoid tissue that lack nodule ( figure 6a ) .
since the stroma of the medulla be less heavily infiltrated with lymphocyte than the cortex , the medulla stain more lightly than the cortex .
in normal mouse , the thymus retain it size until the young adult age and regress thereafter by atrophy .
in the normal young mouse we examine ( p3 – p17 ) , it be evident that thymocytes be mitotically active in the cortex a determine by brdu immunostaining ( figure 6b ) .
immunohistochemistry of normal thymus from p3 to p17 mouse show a similar staining pattern for k14 in that it expression be restrict to a small population of tec in the inner medullary region and in the keratinocytes in hassall 's corpuscle ( figure 6d ) .
diffuse cytoplasmic staining for β - catenin be also detect in the medullary epithelial cell ( figure 6c ) .
in contrast to k14 expression , diffuse staining for k8 be observe in epithelial cell both in the medulla and cortex ( figure s3 ) .
k1 staining be not detect in young mouse at p3 but in old mouse it be detect in differentiate keratinocytes in some of hassall 's corpuscle ( figure s3 ) .
the histological abnormality of thymus be evident as early a p3 in ka mutant ( figure 6e and 6h ) .
the thymus be make of two lobule a in the normal mouse but the mutant thymus be significantly small in size than that of the age - matched control ( figure 2g ) .
interestingly , variation in the phenotypic severity of the mutant pup at p3 be prominently reflect in the extent of histological abnormality of thymus .
a p3 ka mutant pup that show mild phenotype with a comparable body weight to it normal littermates ( figure 2a , m2 ) show mild thymus abnormality ( figure 6e ) compare to it more severe mutant littermate ( figure 2a , m1 ; figure 6h ) .
the mild p3 mutant thymus be already much small in size compare to those of normal littermates ( data not show ) but two epithelial compartment of thymus be histologically still distinguishable , with colonization of thymocytes evident in the cortex .
however , there be small population of lightly stain cell by h & e extend from the edge of the out cortex towards inner medulla ( figure 6e ) , and these cell show intense nuclear β - catenin staining whereas the rest of the medullary cell show diffuse β - catenin staining pattern similar to that of the control ( figure 6f ) .
localization of k14 be limit to a few cell in the medulla and some overlap with k8 localization ( figure 6g ) .
in the other p3 mutant thymus the distinct thymic epithelial compartment have be lose completely , and only a few lymphocyte be remain at the edge and some in the middle ( figure 6h ) .
proliferative activity be no longer observe in thymocytes as prominently a in the normal thymus , but the epithelial cell seem to be form concentric structure ( figure 6i ) .
unlike in the normal or mild mutant thymus , the severe p3 mutant thymus show extensive k14 expression that overlap with k8 expression ( figure 6k ) .
these cell be more like basal cell of the skin than tec and be adjacent to the most immature look cell that be show strong nuclear and cytoplasmic β - catenin staining ( figure 6j ) .
the nuclear staining of β - catenin be not observe in the normal age - matched thymus ( figure 6c ) .
most notably , the k14 and β - catenin staining pattern be mutually exclusive ( figure 6j and 6k ) .
at p10 – p13 , the mutant thymus consist of numerous enlarge hassall 's corpuscle – like structure , make of array of k14 - and k8 - express keratinize epithelial cell surround large keratin deposit ( figure 6l and 6o ) .
there be numerous neutrophil and macrophage infiltrate the thymus in response to these keratin ; hence , these structure could be call pyogranuloma .
vary degree of differentiation - specific marker depend on the age of mouse , in this case k1 and involucrin that be normally present only in hassall 's corpuscle , be also detect in mutant thymus ( figure s3 ) .
in these mouse no thymocytes be detectable .
brdu incorporation be only observe in very few keratinize epithelial cell , look somewhat similar to the pattern of mature skin ( figure 6m ) .
the diffuse expression of β - catenin be also present in these epithelial cell , and at this age few cell be positive for nuclear β - catenin staining ( figure 6n ) .
a in the young mutant mouse , however , nuclear localization of β - catenin be only observe in k14 - negative cell that look like undifferentiated basal cell .
in old p17 mouse , the histopathology and keratin expression pattern of the mutant thymus be similar to that of p13 except for the fact that β - catenin expression become increasingly diffuse and appear to colocalize with k8 / k14 expression ( data not show ) .
this coincide with few immature cell in the old mutant thymus .
collectively , these result suggest that loss of apc and consequent stabilization of β - catenin in k14 - express tec lead to their aberrant proliferation and differentiation to keratinocytes , cause massive squamous metaplasia , rather than to form either medullary or cortical tec .
loss of proper tec compartment consequently result in loss of thymocytes for maturation and the mouse to be “ athymic . ”
discussion
apc be implicate in the wnt signaling pathway that be involve both in development and tumorigenesis .
human germline mutation in apc cause fap [ 4 , 5 ] , which be characterize by hundred of adenomatous colorectal polyp , with an almost inevitable progression to colorectal cancer in the third and fourth decade of life .
the phenotypical feature of fap and it variant , gardner 's syndrome , can be very variable .
as well a colorectal polyp , these individual can develop extracolonic symptom , among which be upper gastrointestinal tract polyp , congenital hypertrophy of the retinal pigment epithelium , desmoid tumor , disorder of the maxillary and skeletal bone , and dental abnormality [ 6 ] .
while the heterozygous knockout mouse for apc develop adenomatous polyp predominantly in small intestine , the homozygous embryo die before gastrulation .
to gain more insight into the effect of apc loss in tissue other than gastrointestinal tract during life of animal and to circumvent the embryonic lethality associate with apc nullizygosity , we create a mouse strain carry a conditional allele of apc ( apccko ) in which exon 14 of the apc be flank by loxp sequence .
the homozygous mouse for the conditional allele be viable and indistinguishable to the normal mouse , allow u to study the role of apc in a tissue - and temporal - specific manner .
to assess the phenotypic consequence of inactivation of the apc gene in cell that express k14 , we create mouse that be homozygous for the apccko allele and contain a k14 - cre transgene .
these mouse fail to thrive and die before wean .
they also exhibit hair , tooth , and thymus phenotype .
apc and hair follicle morphogenesis
current model of hair follicle development suggest that the establishment of a regular array of placodes in the surface epithelium in response to the first dermal message be achieve through the compete activity of molecule that promote or repress placode fate [ 24 ] .
there be accumulate evidence that activation of the wnt signaling pathway in the dermis may be involve in establish the first dermal signal .
experimental activation of epithelial β - catenin signaling ( by expression of n - terminal – truncated , constitutively stabilize form of β - catenin or ectopic expression of lef1 ) induce ectopic follicle in both mouse and chick skin [ 25 – 27 ] .
conversely , down - regulation of β - catenin signaling ( through lef1 knock - out , ectopic expression of wnt inhibitor dkk1 or conditional deletion of β - catenin in epidermis ) result in loss of vibrissa and some pelage follicle in mouse [ 28 – 30 ] .
our finding that k14 - drive apc loss in embryonic ectoderm result in irregularly space and often tightly cluster abnormal hair placode initiation and follicle morphogenesis ( figure 4f , 5b , 5d , and 5f ) as well a in the development of multiple tooth bud ( figure 4o and 4p ) , be in line with the effect see in activation of epithelial β - catenin signaling during placode formation , indicate the role of apc in specification of embryonic ectodermal stem cell to produce a hair follicle .
give the role of apc in down - regulation of β - catenin , loss of apc would inevitably lead to altered expression of β - catenin in ectodermal cell during the hair placode formation , give rise to aberrant follicular growth throughout the embryonic epidermis , include the footpad , where normally hairless ( figure 5b , 5d , 5f , and 5h ) .
of interest be the phenotypic similarity and difference between our ka mutant mouse and the previously describe k14 - δn87βcat transgenic mouse express stable β - catenin under the control of k14 promoter [ 25 ] and k14 - lef1 transgenic mouse [ 27 ] .
surprisingly , our mutant mouse share more similarity with the k14 - lef1 mouse than the k14 - δn87βcat transgenic mouse .
for example , the ka mutant mouse display the disoriented and short , curly whisker see in k14 - lef1but not in k14 - δn87βcat transgenic mouse .
in addition , ka mutant mouse display a disorganized hair coat begin with the emergence of neonatal hair , similar to that observe in k14 - lef1 mouse , whereas in k14 - δn87βcat mouse , embryonic hair follicle morphogenesis be unaffected and other skin change only emerge postnatally .
the reason for this difference could be attribute to one or all of three possible contribute factor .
( 1 ) although the k14 promoter itself be know to initiate the expression at e9.5 and elevate dramatically by e13.5 – e14.5 [ 19 , 31 ] , many factor could influence the expression of promoter / transgene construct in transgenic mouse .
one of the most important consideration have to do with the integration site of the transgene in the mouse genome .
depend on the location of integration , the transcriptional activity of even the same transgene could vary considerably .
it be possible that the apparent lack of δn87βcat function in embryogenesis could be due to the delay or weak expression of the k14 - δn87βcat transgene compare to the intrinsic promoter .
in contrast , cre - mediated recombination be see in e13.5 skin of k14 - cre transgenic mouse use in this study [ 16 ] and k14 - cre – mediated truncation of the apc gene be likely to have occur by then , in time for the second wave of hair follicle morphgenesis .
( 2 ) another important fact be that in the aforementioned transgenic model the overexpression of transgene be confine to the basal cell of the epidermis and the or of hair follicle , where the k14 promoter be active .
the expression of transgene be hence transient and stop once k14 - express cell terminally differentiate .
in contrast , in our model , k14 - cre – mediated deletion of apc would result in apc mutation not only in k14 promoter active cell , but remain so in all cell layer that derive from the k14 promoter active progenitor .
these derivative include the suprabasal epidermis and the entire epithelium of the hair follicle .
stabilization of β - catenin in a broad population of cell could account for some of the phenotypic difference .
however , we do not detect any elevated β - catenin expression in either k1 - or k6 - positive differentiate cell in postnatal mutant skin .
this indicate that despite the absence of apc and potential stabilization of β - catenin in derivative of k14 - express progenitor , elevated β - catenin expression , and subsequent cell fate determination may only take place in basal cell .
( 3 ) we can not exclude the possibility that give the multifunctional property of apc , disruption of it function other than down - regulation of β - catenin may also have contribute to the observe overt phenotype .
while some feature of our mutant mouse be similar to these transgenic mouse , other phenotypic aspect be largely distinct .
in addition to aberrant hair follicle morphogenesis , k14 - driven loss of apc cause formation of multiple tooth bud that , like hair follicle , be know to develop through inductive interaction between the epithelium and mesenchyme .
this observation be similar to the ectopic tooth bud find in animal misexpressing lef1 [ 27 ] , but more severe and be also present at birth , indicate the effect of apc loss during the initiation of embryonic tooth development , which be evident by aberrant shh expression in e15.5 embryonic oral epithelium ( unpublished data ) .
it should be note that although multiple tooth bud be histologically visible ( figure 4o and 4p ) , these teeth never break out and the ka mutant mouse appear toothless .
this unusual severe tooth defect be unique to these mutant mouse .
in addition , neither of the two transgenic mouse be postnatally lethal a in the ka mutant mouse .
we do not find any obvious histopathological abnormality in the internal organ of ka mouse that could contribute to the lethality .
however , the fact that all the mutant have low weight ( figure 2f ) with hardly any evidence of solid food in their stomach indicate that the mutant might have die of starvation .
dermal fat be reduce in the mutant skin , possibly a a consequence of poor nutrition cause by the absence of teeth .
since the weight loss in ka mutant start from p8 – p10 while pup be still nurse by their mother , starvation due to lack of teeth can not be the sole cause of death , but be likely to be a contribute factor .
absence of teeth and mammary gland have be observe in mouse deficient in lef1 and ectopically express dkk1 [ 29 , 30 ] but their absence be due to the block in development before the bud stage .
hence , neither loss nor excess of tooth bud formation allow proper development of teeth for mouse to have a healthy diet and normal life .
mechanistic study to understand how increase level of β - catenin lead to altered skin and tooth phenotype be under way .
apc and thymus organogenesis
in this study , we observe that k14 - drive loss of apc result in a small thymus with severe squamous metaplasia lead to the formation of numerous pyogranuloma and loss of proper meshwork structure for thymocyte maturation , render the mouse athymic .
previous study have show that in normal adult thymus k14 expression be find together with k5 in the stellate medullary tec , but not in association with k5 + tec in the cortex or at the cortico - medullary junction .
in addition , it have be demonstrate that k14 + tec do not coexpress k8 ; hence , there be two distinct medullary subset , namely a k8 − k14 + stellate subset and a k8 + k14 − globular subset [ 32 ] .
in agreement with the previous result , in p3 normal thymus k14 expression be restrict to stellate medullary tec ( figure 6d ) , whereas k8 expression be find throughout the tec ( unpublished data ) .
we could not clarify whether these two keratin be coexpressed in the same tec without double - staining .
there be individual difference among mutant and these be prominently reflect in the histological abnormality of the thymus at p3 , but a the old survive mutant all show the same histopathologies of the thymus , the mutant thymus eventually seem to result in the same fate .
it be unclear when k14 - cre induction actually take place in the mutant thymus , but a the population of cell show a strong nuclear β - catenin staining as well a the cell express k14 be small and thymic epithelial compartment still exist in a mild p3 mutant thymus ( figure 6e and 6f ) , it seem that initial differentiation to medullary and cortical tec and thymocyte colonization have already take place prior to the major effect of k14 - drive apc loss .
however , cell with nuclear β - catenin and k8 + k14 + double - positive epithelial cell increase subsequently , associated with active proliferation in the latter group of cell and loss of tec compartment .
with age , β - catenin expression pattern become more diffuse and few epithelial cell show nuclear localization but k8 + k14 + cell remain , form concentric structure of epithelial cell fill with hard keratin deposit and infiltrate with vast number of neutrophil and macrophage .
only a few epithelial cell be divide and hardly any thymocytes be present by this time .
these result suggest that with the deletion of apc in tec , stabililization and nuclear localization of β - catenin take place and subsequently these cell differentiate into keratinocytes that express both k14 and k8 , similar to the basal cell of the skin , instead of tec subset .
the expansion and differentiation of these keratinocytes lead to loss of proper thymic epithelial compartment and in turn produce and deposit the hard keratin that consequently cause vast amount of neutrophil and macrophage to infiltrate the thymus .
these aberrant epithelial structure eventually have overtake the whole of the thymus and drive out the colonize thymocytes .
k14 - drive loss of apc and subsequent constitutive expression of β - catenin in tec have therefore misdirect them to wrong epithelial cell fate , not allow proper differentiation to either cortical or medullary tec , which be essential for normal thymocyte development .
this be not only evident from the lack of divide thymocytes in the mutant thymus by p13 , but also by the differential expression pattern of keratin , which be more skin - like than tec - like .
the importance of apc function in thymic development have be demonstrate by thymocyte - specific loss of apc by cross a different strain of apc conditional mouse and lckcre transgenic mouse [ 33 ] .
here , by k14 - drive tec - specific loss of apc , we have demonstrate it importance in thymus development not only in thymocytes but also in tec .
it be of interest that dental abnormality , such a supernumerary and impacted teeth similar to those observe in our mutant mouse , be frequently see in patient with gardner 's syndrome , carrier of apc germline mutation [ 6 ] .
the importance of odonto - stomatological examination should hence be point out a a mean of reach a presumptive diagnosis , whose confirmation be vital to the patient .
further characterization of the mechanism of such developmental defect use our mouse model should provide important insight into apc function in multiple organ system and to give good insight into potential adverse event in human subject .
in conclusion , we have show that loss of apc in k14 - express embryonic cell cause aberrant morphogenesis in various skin appendage , include hair follicle and teeth , and abnormal thymus organogensis .
our result provide genetic evidence that expression of apc be essential for regulation of proper cell fate in these organ that require epithelial – mesenchymal interaction .
material and method
construction of targeting vector .
to target the apc locus , we obtain bac clone rp23 - 233f17 that contain all the sequence of apc except for the 5 ′ utr and exon 1 .
use a recombineering - based method for generate conditional mutation [ 12 , 13 ] , subcloning of bac and further modification be conduct .
the genomic sequence encompass apc exon 11 to 15 be first subcloned into pbr322 vector , and then a loxp site be introduce into intron 13 follow by loxp - frt - pgkneor - frt selection cassette into intron14 of the apc gene ( figure 1a ) .
generation of apccko e cell and mouse .
the linearize targeting vector be electroporated into 129 / s - derived e cell , ww6 cell [ 15 ] .
all candidate g418 - resistant e clone be screen by long - range gene - specific pcr use expand long template pcr system ( roche , indianapolis , indiana , united state ) , follow by sequence to validate the correct insertion of the single loxp site and the selection cassette .
two e clone with correct apcckon / + modification be inject into c57bl / 6j blastocyst , after which chimeric mouse with high level of e cell contribution be backcross to c57bl / 6j female to produce heterozygous f1 offspring .
the genomic dna sample obtain from the tail of f1 offspring be subsequently analyze by southern blot analysis to far confirm the correct homologous recombination .
by cross the heterozygous mouse to flpe deleter mouse [ 34 ] , pgkneor cassette be delete in the germline by frt - mediated recombination to generate mouse with the final apccko allele .
apccko heterozygous mouse be cross together to generate homozygous mouse , and the homozygous offspring be interbreed for maintenance .
generation of apcδ580 mouse .
apccko heterozygote mouse be cross with cre deleter mouse , eiia - cre transgenic mouse that express cre in early embryo [ 35 ] , to knockout the apc allele in the germline , consequently create a knockout strain ( figure 1a ) .
the resultant apcδ580 / + mouse be maintain by backcross to c57bl / 6j female .
generation of k14 - cre ; apccko / cko mouse .
the mouse analyze in this study be generate by cross apccko heterozygote mouse of the f1 generation ( c57bl / 6j × 129 / s background ) with k14 - cre transgenic mouse ( fvb background ) .
k14 - cre ; apccko / + male mouse thus generate be then cross with apccko / cko female to generate homozygous and heterozygous apccko offspring either with or without k14 - cre .
the mouse be intercrossed thereafter for maintenance .
genotyping of mouse .
genomic dna from tip of mouse tail obtain at ~ 10 d of age be genotyped in a single pcr reaction with the follow primer : apc - int13f2 ( gagaaaccctgtctcgaaaaaa ) and apc - int13r2 ( agtgctgtttctatgagtcaac ) , result in 320 - bp and 430 - bp product from the wild - type and conditional apccko allele , respectively .
for the detection of cre - mediated delete apc allele , apcδ580 , the primer apc - int14r4 ( ttggcagactgtgtatataagc ) in combination with apc - int13f2 result in 500 - bp product .
primer cre - f1 ( tccaatttactgaccgtacacc ) and cre - r1 ( ccgacgatgaagcatgtttag ) be use for detection of cre transgene in the germline , result in 300 - bp product .
amplification be perform in a 25 - μl volume contain 15 mm tris - hcl ( ph 8.3 ) , 50 mm kcl , 2.5 mm mgcl2 , 0.2 mm dntp , 0.2 μm of each primer , and 1.25 u of amplitaq gold ( applied biosystems , foster city , california , united state ) .
the reaction be heat for 10 min at 94 °c to heat - activate the enzyme follow by 30 pcr cycle at 94 °c for 30 s , 58 °c for 30 s , and 72 °c for 45 s , follow by the final extension for 5 min at 72 °c .
skin permeability assay .
unfixed and freshly isolate e18.5 embryo be rinse in pb and then submerge in x - gal reaction mix at ph 4.5 ( 100 mm napo4 , 1.3 mm mgcl2 , 3 mm k3fe ( cn ) 6 , 3 mm k4fe ( cn ) 6 , and 1 mg / ml x - gal ) at room temperature overnight [ 36 ] .
at this ph in the absence of epidermal barrier , the solution penetrate epidermis and an endogenous β - galactosidase – like activity catalyze production of a blue precipitate .
after staining , embryo be wash twice in pb , fix overnight at 4 °c in 4 % paraformaldehyde , and be photograph use a 35 mm nikon digital camera .
skeletal preparation .
the skin and eviscerate body of the old survive ka mutant ( p16 – p17 ) and their age - matched littermates be place into 1 % potassium hydroxide ( koh ) for 5 d .
the body be transfer into a fresh solution of 1 % koh contain a few drop of 0.5 % alizarin red s ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) and leave for another 5 d .
the stain body be store in glycerin and view under a dissection microscope .
analysis for tissue - specific recombination .
genotype / tissue - specific recombination of the conditional allele be examine by both pcr and rt - pcr .
dna sample extract from various tissue collect at the time of autopsy be examine by genotyping pcr a describe .
rna extract from various tissue homogenate in trizol reagent be examine for expression of wild - type and truncate apc allele by superscript one - step rt - pcr with platinum taq ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) , follow manufacturer 's protocol .
approximately 200 ng of total rna from either skin , liver , or thymus from each genotype be reverse - transcribe use primer apc - f546 ( tgaggaatttgtcttggcgag ) and apc - r721 ( gcacttcccatggcaatcatt ) , result in 528 - bp and 313 - bp product from the wild - type / apccko allele and apcδ580 allele , respectively .
brdu labeling .
mouse be inject intraperitoneally with approximately 50 μg / g body weight of brdu ( sigma ) dissolve in pb 2 h before their death .
tissue sample be fix in bouin 's and process a describe below .
histological and immunochemical analysis .
mutant mouse and age - matching littermates be humanely kill at various age by co2 inhalation .
mouse be skin and piece of skin be either snap - freeze in liquid nitrogen or immediately homogenize in trizol reagent and store at − 80 °c until molecular analysis , or fix flat on a piece of paper towel in bouin 's solution for histological and immunohistochemical examination .
the mouse be then dissect for gross examination , various tissue be similarly collect for future molecular analysis , and then the whole body be fix in bouin 's solution .
the sample be then submit to rodent histopathological core for processing and histopathological examination .
for immunohistochemistry , 5 - μm paraffin - embed tissue section be deparafinized in xylene , follow by alcohol rehydration .
after quench endogenous peroxidase in 3 % h2o2 in methanol , the slide be rinse in distilled water , and an antigen retrieval step be carry out in a microwave oven for a total of 10 min in preheated citrate buffer ( ph 6.0 ) .
the slide be then incubate with primary antibody at room temperature overnight .
antibody use be β - catenin ( bd transduction lab , san diego , california , united state ) , keratin 1 , 5 , 6 , 14 , involucrin , loricrin ( covance , berkeley , california , united state ) , keratin 8 ( abcam , cambridge , united kingdom ) , ki67 ( vector laboratory , burlingame , california , united state ) and brdu ( roche ) .
biotinylated secondary antibody ( donkey anti-rabbit and goat anti-mouse igg , 1 : 250 ; jackson immunoresearch , west grove , pennsylvania , united state ) , follow by the vectastain elite abc kit ( vector laboratory ) be use for detection .
the slide be stain with dab and counterstained with mayer 's hematoxylin .
in situ hybridization .
section ish use rat shh probe [ 37 ] and whole - mount ish use β - catenin probe [ 38 ] be perform a previously describe [ 39 , 40 ] .
riboprobes label with dig be detect with bm purple ap substrate precipitation solution ( roche ) .
support information
figure s1
multiple intestinal neoplasia in apcδ580 mouse
( a ) a representative appearance of small intestine of 4 - month - old mouse .
scale bar , 1.5 mm .
( b ) histological analysis of longitudinal section of small intestine show in ( a ) by h & e staining .
scale bar , 100 μm .
( c ) the typical histopathological appearance of an adenoma show in ( b ) .
scale bar , 20μm .
( 621 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
skin permeability assay and neonatal mouse
( a ) skin permeability assay of e18.5 embryo .
both normal ( n ) and ka mutant ( m ) embryo can exclude the blue dye at this age , show no defect in skin barrier function .
note slight pigmentation in pinnnae and “ birthmark ” in the forehead of mutant embryo ( b ) , which be present at p1 ( c ) , and become prominent a they grow .
( 749 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
immunochemical examination of p13 normal and mutant thymus
( a – e ) p13 normal thymus .
( f – k ) p13 mutant thymus .
stain with k8 ( a ) , ( d ) , ( f ) , ( i ) , k1 ( b ) , ( e ) , ( g ) , ( j ) , and involucrin ( c ) , ( h ) , ( k ) .
scale bar , 100 μm for ( a – c ) , ( f – h ) , ( j – k ) and 20 μm for ( d – e ) , ( i ) .
note the lack of involucrin staining in normal thymus but vary degree of positive cell in mutant thymus .
( 6.4 mb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
accession number
the genbank ( ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank ) accession number for the gene and gene product discuss in this paper be apc ( nm_007462 ) , β - catenin ( nm_007614 ) , axin 2 ( nm_004655 ) , plakoglobin ( nm_002230 ) , asef ( nm_015320 ) , kinesin superfamily – associate protein 3 ( nm_014970 ) , eb1 ( nm_012325 ) , human homolog of drosophila disc large ( u13897 ) , lef1 ( nm_010703 ) , dkk1 ( nm_010051 ) , k1 ( nm_008473 ) , k5 ( nm_027011 ) , k6 ( nm_008476 ) , k8 ( nm_031170 ) , k14 ( nm_016958 ) , involucrin ( nm_008412 ) , loricrin ( nm_008508 ) , and shh ( nm_009170 ) .
abbreviation
apc - adenomatous polyposis coli
cko - conditional knockout
e - embryonic day
e - embryonic stem
fap - familial adenomatous polyposis
frt - flp recognition target
ish - in situ hybridization
k14 - keratin 14
or - out root sheath
p - postnatal day
tec - thymic epithelial cell
figure and table
figure 1
generation of the conditional apc allele
( a ) schematic diagram of exon 14 and 15 of the mouse apc gene , the targeting vector , and the result conditional allele with 2 loxp site sandwich the exon 14 .
the pgk - neomycin cassette be insert within intron 14 by recombineering technique .
this cassette be sandwich by 2 frt site that could be remove by cross to flpe - express mouse .
position of pcr primer use for genotyping pcr ( f2 , r2 , r4 ) and rt - pcr ( f546 and r721 ) be indicate .
position of probe use for southern blot analysis with ndei site be also show .
upon cre - mediated recombination , exon 14 be remove and lead to truncate apc protein , of which the first 580 aa correspond to the normal .
( b ) southern blot analysis of ndei - digested genomic tail dna isolate from f1 mouse of various apc mouse line ( apcckon , apcδ580 ) , hybridize to a 600 - bp probe .
tail genomic dna from apcckon f1 mouse derive from a modify e clone show a 12 - kb band for the apcckon allele and a 10 - kb band for the wild - type allele , whereas genomic dna from the apcδ580 mouse be heterozygous for the apcδ580 allele ( 9.2 - kb band ) .
( c ) kaplan - meier survival plot of apccko / + mouse ( thin solid line , n = 39 ) , apccko / cko mouse ( thin dot line , n = 57 ) , apcδ580 / + mouse ( solid line , n = 51 ) , and wild - type littermates ( break line , n = 21 ) .
heterozygosity of the apcδ580 allele lead to a significantly shorten survival ( p < 0.0001 ) , whereas those of heterozygous and homozygous apccko mouse have no significant difference to that of wild - type littermates .
figure 2
postnatal mortality and stunt growth in k14 - cre ; apccko / cko mutant mouse
animal whose genotype be either heterozygous or homozygous for the wild - type apc allele be refer to a normal ( n ) ; those whose genotype be k14 - cre ; apccko / cko and show the presence of k14 - cre – recombined mutant apc allele be call mutant ( m ) .
( a ) two p3 mutant mouse , m1 and m2 , and their normal littermates , show size variation among mutant .
( b ) p8 mutant mouse ( right ) and a normal littermate .
note sparseness of hair coat and abnormal ear .
( c – d ) vibrissa of whisker pad be short and oddly angled in a p12 mutant mouse ( c ) , relative to control ( d ) .
note the lack of incisor in the mutant .
( e ) a p17 mutant mouse ( right ) with it littermate .
it bare forehead , dorsal median line , and abnormal ear be evident .
( f ) growth curve of mutant and normal littermates .
mutant exhibit stunt growth , which become more prominent a they age , and weigh significantly less than littermates from p8 ( p < 0.05 ) .
( g ) comparison of mutant and normal thymus from p3 mouse .
the mutant thymus ( left ) be dramatically small for it age compare to the normal littermate ( right ) .
the scale bar equal 1 mm .
( h ) skeletal preparation of normal ( left ) and mutant ( right ) , show difference in development of both incisor ( i ) and molar ( m ) teeth .
figure 3
tissue - specific detection and expression of delete apc allele
( a ) tissue - specific genotyping pcr .
only genomic dna sample from the skin ( s ) and thymus ( t ) , but not liver ( l ) of mouse positive for k14 - cre show the presence of delete apcδ580 allele .
( b ) genotype - and tissue - specific expression of the truncate apc transcript .
a representative gel of rt - pcr use primer f546 and r721 , show that only rna from the skin and thymus but not liver of mouse positive for k14 - cre have transcript from both wild - type ( 528 bp ) and delete ( 313 bp ) apc allele .
figure 4
histological and immunochemical examination of p12 skin and teeth
( a – e ) p12 normal skin .
( f – j ) p12 mutant skin .
( k – n ) p12 normal oral cavity .
( o – r ) p12 mutant oral cavity .
stain with h & e for histology ( a , f , k – l , o – p ) , ki67 ( b , g ) , β - catenin ( c , h , m , q ) , k14 ( d , i , n , r ) , and k6 ( e , j ) .
aberrant follicular morphogenesis , characterize by formation of irregularly space , nonpolarized hair follicle , in mutant skin be evident .
despite the abnormal histology , proliferation seem to be confine to hair bulb - like structure ( arrow in [ g ] , inset [ g ′ ] at high magnification ) , but in mutant skin ( arrow in [ h ] , inset [ h ′ ] at high magnification ) and oral cavity ( arrow in inset [ q ′ ] at high magnification ) elevate cytosolic localization of β - catenin be detect in some cell .
scale bar : 50 μm for ( a – f ) , ( h – j ) ; 250 μm for ( k ) and ( o ) ; 100 μm for ( g ) , ( l – n ) , ( p – r ) ; 20 μm for ( q ′ ) .
figure 5
expression of shh and β - catenin transcript in normal ( apccko / cko ) and mutant ( k14 - cre ; apccko / cko ) embryonic skin
( a – d ) section ish with shh probe in e14.5 normal ( a ) , e14.5 mutant ( b ) , e16.5 normal ( c ) , and e16.5 mutant ( d ) skin .
broken line indicate the interface between epithelium and mesenchyme .
scale bar : 50 μm .
whole mount in situ detection of β - catenin in e15.5 normal ( e , g ) , mutant ( f , h ) embryo .
aberrant initiation of multiple hair placodes be evident at e14.5 .
loss of k14 - drive apc loss cause aberrant pattern formation ( f ′ ) and form ectopic hair placodes in normally hairless foot pad ( h , arrows ) which be absent in normal ( g ) .
figure 6
histological and immunochemical examination of thymus
( a – d ) p3 normal thymus .
( e – g ) mild p3 mutant thymus .
( h – k ) severe p3 mutant thymus .
( l – o ) p13 mutant thymus .
stain with h & e for histology ( a , e , h , l ) , brdu ( b , i , m ) , β - catenin ( c , f , j , n ) , and k14 ( d , g , k , o ) .
( b ) actively divide thymocytes be visible at the superficial edge of cortex of normal p3 thymus .
note the progression of histological abnormality in the mutant thymus from mild p3 , severe p3 to p13 ( a , e , h , l ) .
scale bar , 20 μm .
table 1
genotype distribution of progeny from the mating
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on july 28 , 2006 ( doi : 10.1371/journal.pgen.0020146.eor ) .
author contribution .
m. kuraguchi and r. kucherlapati conceive and design the experiment .
m. kuraguchi , x. wang , r. bronson , r. rothenberg , n. ohene - baah , j. lund , and m. kucherlapati perform the experiment .
m. kuraguchi analyze the data .
r. maas contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
m. kuraguchi write the paper .
fund .
this work be support by grant from the national cancer institute ( ca - 084301 ) , the national institute of environmental health science ( e - 11040 ) , and the national institute of dental and craniofacial research ( de - 11697 , de - 16140 ) .
cloning and characterization of the mouse mcoln1 gene reveal an alternatively splice transcript not see in human
abstract
background
mucolipidosis type iv ( mliv ) be an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder characterize by severe neurologic and ophthalmologic abnormality .
recently the mliv gene , mcoln1 , have be identify a a new member of the transient receptor potential ( trp ) cation channel superfamily .
here we report the cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue , mcoln1 , and report a novel splice variant that be not see in human .
result
the human and mouse gene display a high degree of synteny .
mcoln1 show 91 % amino acid and 86 % nucleotide identity to mcoln1 .
also , mcoln1 map to chromosome 8 and contain an open reading frame of 580 amino acid , with a transcript length of approximately 2 kb encode by 14 exon , similar to it human counterpart .
the transcript that result from murine specific alternative splicing encode a 611 amino acid protein that differ at the c - terminus .
conclusion
mcoln1 be highly similar to mcoln1 , especially in the transmembrane domain and ion pore region .
also , the late endosomal / lysosomal targeting signal be conserve , support the hypothesis that the protein be localize to these vesicle membrane .
to date , there be very few report describe specie - specific splice variant .
while identification of mcoln1 be crucial to the development of mouse model for mliv , the fact that there be two transcript in mouse suggest an additional or alternate function of the gene that may complicate phenotypic assessment .
background
mucolipidosis type iv ( mliv ; mim 252650 ) be an autosomal recessive lysosomal storage disorder that be characterize by corneal clouding , delayed psychomotor development , and mental retardation that usually present during the first year of life [ 1 ] .
another interesting clinical characteristic be that patient be constitutively achlorhydric with associate hypergastremia [ 2 ] .
patient with mliv do not show mucopolysaccharide excretion , skeletal change , or organomegaly like the other mucolipidoses .
abnormal lysosomal storage body and large vacuole have be find in skin and conjuctival biopsy use electron - microscopy and , prior to gene identification , serve a the only mean of diagnosis [ 3 - 5 ] .
a recent report estimate that the carrier frequency of mliv in the ashkenazi jewish population be 1 in 100 , and mutation have be report in jewish and non-jewish family [ 6 - 9 ] .
the human gene mcoln1 ( genbank # af287270 ) map to chromosome 19p13.2 - 13.3 and encode a novel protein that be a member of the transient receptor potential ( trp ) cation channel gene superfamily [ 7 - 10 ] .
protein trafficking study suggest that mliv be the result of a defect in the late endocytic pathway , contrary to the other mucolipidoses which be typically cause by defective lysosomal hydrolases [ 11 , 12 ] .
recent work in caenorhabditis elegans support this hypothesis .
loss of function mutant of the mcoln1 c. elegans homologue , cup - 5 , result in an increase rate of endocytosis , accumulation of large vacuole , and a decrease rate of endocytosed protein breakdown ; while over-expression of this gene reverse the phenotype [ 13 ] .
cloning and characterization of the mouse homologue of mcoln1 be crucial for the development of mouse model of mliv to far study this disorder .
result and discussion
cloning and mapping of the mouse homologue mcoln1
in order to clone the mouse homologue of mcoln1 , the human amino acid sequence be compare to the high throughput genomic sequence ( htgs ) database use tblastn , which identify the mouse bac clone rpci - 23_387h4 ( gb no. ac079544.1 ) .
correspondence with the joint genome institute and the lawrence livermore national laboratory ( llnl ) human genome center confirm the location of this bac to mouse chromosome 8 and allow u to construct a physical map of this region [ 14 ] ( fig. 1a ) .
the bac sequence be then compare to the mouse est database use blastn , and multiple est and their correspond i.m.a.g.e. clone be identify .
figure 1
physical and transcript map of the mcoln1 gene region .
( a ) physical map show a 590 kb segment of mouse chromosome 8 syntenous to human chromosome 19 , anchor by the gene insr and nte .
the region be cover by three bacs : rpci - 23_334d24 ( ac087153 ) , rpci - 23_312b8 ( ac087150 ) , and rpci - 23_387h4 ( ac079544 ) .
( b ) the transcript map of mcoln1 show 14 exon , and the location of the probe use in this study be illustrate .
the map also show the expand exon 13 in the alternatively splice transcript ( hash box ) .
unigene cluster mm.39099 be the homologue of the human zinc finger gene ( ac001252 ) .
it should be note that the scale of the transcript map be in reference to the 201 kb scale of bac rpci - 23_387h4 .
three clone ( id nos. 604971 , 1228665 , 1247566 ) from the unigene cluster mm. 8356 be obtain , sequence , and assemble into a 2 kb transcript with an open reading frame of 580 amino acid designate mcoln1 ( gb no. af302010 ) .
comparison of the cdna sequence to the bac clone show that the gene consist of 14 exon .
we then create a transcript map of the mcoln1 region of mouse chromosome 8 ( fig. 1b ) , note the presence of the unigene cluster mm. 39099 , a homologue of the human zinc finger gene ( gb no. ac001252 ) that terminate approximately 1.8 kb before the start of mcoln1 ; and nte , the mouse homologue of the human neuropathy target esterase gene ( nte ) begin 130 base pair after the polyadenylation signal for mcoln1 .
the transcript map of the region surround mcoln1 be similar to the corresponding region of the homologous human mcoln1 region [ 15 ] , and the presence of the zinc finger gene and nte confirms and extend the region of synteny between human chromosome 19 and mouse chromosome 8 .
characterization of mcoln1
comparison of the mouse and human peptide sequence show 91 % identity ( fig. 2 ) .
the c. elegans homologue cup - 5 show 34 % identity with mcoln1 and blastp analysis of mcoln1 identify a putative drosophila melanogaster homologue that show 38 % identity ( fig. 2 ) .
interestingly , two mcoln1 amino acid substitution that result in mliv occur at conserve amino acid .
tmpred analysis predict a protein structure that be nearly identical to mcoln1 , contain 6 transmembrane domain with the n - and c - terminus reside in the cytoplasm ( fig. 2 ) [ 9 ] .
figure 2
peptide sequence comparison of mcoln1 to human , d. melanogaster , and c. elegans ( cup - 5 ) homologues .
blue line indicate transmembrane domain , the red box surround the putative channel pore , the orange box surround the putative late endosomal / lysosomal targeting signal .
expression analysis of mcoln1
mouse adult multiple tissue and embryonic northern blot be hybridize use a probe generate from mouse exon 2 ( probe 1 , fig. 1b ) , yield a band of approximately 2.4 kb ( isoform 1 ) , a expect , and a less abundant and unexpected 4.4 kb band ( isoform 2 ) ( figs. 3a & 3b ) .
the 2.4 kb band show ubiquitous but variable expression , with the high expression in brain , liver and kidney .
the fetal tissue blot show decrease level of the 2.4 kb message with increase gestational age .
since the human mcoln1 gene encode a single transcript [ 7 - 9 ] , we carry out additional hybridization with probe generate from various region of the cod sequence and 3 ' utr , and all probe identify the same two transcript in the mouse ( data not show ) .
in order to verify the presence of a single mouse locus , we hybridize a mouse southern blot with the exon 2 probe .
four different restriction enzyme be use , and only the expect size band for the chromosome 8 locus be detect ( data not show ) .
figure 3
northern analysis of mcoln1 .
( a ) mouse fetal tissue northern and ( b ) mouse multiple tissue northern blot ( clontech ) hybridize with a probe generate from exon 2 ( probe 1 , fig. 1b ) .
( c ) hybridization of the multiple tissue blot with a probe from the alternatively splice segment of exon 13 ( probe 2 , fig. 1b ) .
β - actin control hybridization be show below each blot .
characterization of the mcoln1 alternative splice variant
in order to determine the cod sequence for the large transcript , we search the mouse est database use each intron as well a the genomic sequence flank the mcoln1 gene .
two est be identify that contain sequence from intron 12 ( gb no. ai430291 and aa874645 ) , and the corresponding clone be sequence .
clone 408619 ( est : gb no. ai430291 , ai429558 ) begin approximately 1.1 kb before exon 13 and continue through the exon and splice correctly to exon 14 .
clone 1281641 ( est : gb no. aa874645 ) begin 175 bp before exon 13 and also splice correctly to exon 14 .
a mouse multiple tissue northern be hybridize use a probe generate from the putative intron sequence in clone 408619 ( probe 2 , fig. 1b ) , which detect only the 4.4 kb band ( fig. 3c ) .
in order to determine the sequence of the entire transcript , rt - pcr use primer in exon 10 and 11 pair with a primer in intron 12 be perform use balb / c mouse brain total rna and the result product sequence .
these product show that the large transcript be due to an alternative splice event that result in an expand exon 13 .
specifically , exon 12 splice at bp 436 of intron 12 , create a large 1614 bp exon 13 that splice correctly to exon 14 .
the open reading frame of this alternatively splice transcript be 611 amino acid , 28 amino acid long than the message encode by the 2.4 kb transcript .
tmpred analysis predict that isoform 2 encode a protein identical in structure to mcoln1 , possess 6 transmembrane domain and a channel pore , however the protein sequence diverge at amino acid 526 .
the 55 amino acid c - terminal cytoplasmic tail encode by the 2.4 kb transcript be completely different from the 86 amino acid tail encode by the murine specific 4.4 kb transcript ( fig. 4 ) .
clontech mouse rna master blot be hybridize with the exon 2 and intron 12 probe mention above in an attempt to determine if these two transcript show difference in expression pattern , however , there be no significant difference in the 22 tissue represent ( data not show ) .
figure 4
peptide sequence comparison of the two alternatively splice mcoln1 isoforms .
the green box surround the divergent c - terminal cytoplasmic tail .
the blue line indicate the transmembrane domain .
next , we directly compare the nucleotide and amino acid sequence of the alternatively splice mouse transcript to the entire human mcoln1 genomic sequence and find no significant similarity .
a mention previously , northern blot perform with human mcoln1 probe show only one 2.4 kb transcript .
in addition , we hybridize a human multiple tissue northern and human southern with a probe in human intron 12 that be adjacent to exon 13 .
the probe be locate in the region syntenic to that which encode the alternate mouse transcript .
only the expect band be detect on the southern and no band be detect on the northern , confirm that this alternative transcript be specific to murine mcoln1 .
recent blastp analysis of the alternate mcoln1 transcript yield a match to a putative 145 amino acid anonymous protein ( gb no. bab25862 ) predict from a riken clone .
it be obvious from our result , however , that the identification of this sequence a a full - length protein be incorrect since probe unique to the clone , as well a probe contain the mcoln1 coding sequence , identify the same transcript .
conclusion
comparison of mcoln1 isoform 1 to it human homologue show striking similarity at both the amino acid and nucleotide level .
all six of the transmembrane domain , as well a the putative cation channel be highly conserve .
the putative di-leucine ( l - l - x - x ) motif at the c - terminus , which may act a a late endosomal / lysosomal targeting signal , be also conserve [ 9 ] .
this speculation be support by work with cup - 5 [ 13 ] , the c. elegans homologue of mcoln1 , since cellular localization study suggest that the protein be find in the late endosomes and / or lysosome .
the mouse mcoln1 gene have two alternatively splice isoforms , with isoform 2 have a different c - terminal cytoplasmic tail .
the unique 86 amino acid c - terminal tail lack the lysosomal targeting signal and do not contain any conserve domain when compare against the current profile database .
we speculate that this protein may have similar channel function but an alternate subcellular localization , but this must be prove once isoform - specific antibody be raise .
however , our result suggest that phenotypic assessment of mcoln1 knock - out mouse may be complicated and that care must be take when interpret data on mouse gene expression and phenotype .
interestingly , the second mcoln1 isoform be not see in human and the sequence of the alternatively splice region be not conserve between man and mouse .
to date , very few gene have be report that show specie specific alternative splice variant .
mog , myelin / oligodendrocyte glycoprotein , have many different splice variant in human that be not find in mouse [ 17 ] .
atp11b , a p - type atpase , have a rabbit - specific splice variant that delete a transmembrane domain and therefore likely alter the putative function of the protein [ 18 ] .
sequencing of the human genome have lead to estimate of approximately 32,000 gene , a total surprise give the previous significantly high estimate that be base on the number of express sequence tag ( est ) in the public database .
this apparent disparity suggest a major role for alternative splicing in create genetic complexity , and have bring the study of splicing regulation to the forefront of molecular genetics .
it be likely that an abundance of specie - specific splice variant will be identify a the characterization of alternatively splice transcript progress .
material and method
bioinformatics
we conduct database search use blast and draft human genome browser .
sequence from unigene be use to confirm the mcoln1 sequence .
we perform motif search use profilescan and tmpred and alignment of protein sequence use pileup ( gcg ) and boxshade .
dna sequencing
i.m.a.g.e. clone be purchase from research genetics ( huntsville , al ) .
sequencing be perform use the amplicycle sequencing kit from applied biosystems ( foster city , ca ) on a genomyx lr programmable dna sequencer .
rt - pcr reaction
balb / c mouse brain total rna be purchase from clontech laboratory ( palo alto , ca ) and make to a 1 μg / ml concentration .
this rna be use a a template to create cdna via rt - pcr use random hexamers and oligo dt primer .
the rt product be use to confirm the alternatively splice form use primer : 5 ' - catctacctgggctattgc - 3 ' ( forward ) and 5 ' - gctctcaggtggtggacac - 3 ' ( reverse ) in a pcr reaction with an annealing temperature of 61 °c .
southern blot analysis
total mouse genomic dna be digest use ecori , bamhi , psti , and xbai .
the digest be electrophoresed on a 1 % agarose gel at 60v overnight and be transfer onto a hybond n+ membrane from amersham pharmacia biotech ( piscataway , nj ) .
a 32p - datp labeled pcr fragment of the mcoln1 coding region correspond to exon 2 be use a a probe ( primer 5 ' - ccccacagaagaggaagac - 3 ' ( forward ) and 5 ' - agatcttgaccacctgcag - 3 ' ( reverse ) with an annealing temperature of 59 °c ) .
hybridization and wash be carry out in standard condition [ 16 ] .
northern blot analysis
mouse embryo multiple - tissue northern blot and mouse adult multiple - tissue northern blot filter be purchase from clontech laboratory ( palo alto , ca ) .
the filter be hybridize with the 32p - datp labeled dna fragment of mcoln1 coding region correspond to exon 2 ( see above ) .
for the alternative transcript , a probe be generate in the region between exon 12 and 13 with primer 5 ' - gtgtccaccacctgagag - 3 ' ( forward ) and 5 ' - gaagtagcattcctgcaggc - 3 ' ( reverse ) with an annealing temperature of 62 °c .
the filter be then hybridize with β - actin probe .
hybridization and wash be carry out in standard condition , with the stripping of previously bind probe in between [ 16 ] .
acknowledgement
this work be support by grant ns39995 .
regulation of muscle fiber type and running endurance by pparδ
abstract
endurance exercise training can promote an adaptive muscle fiber transformation and an increase of mitochondrial biogenesis by trigger script change in gene expression .
however , no transcription factor have yet be identify that can direct this process .
we describe the engineering of a mouse capable of continuous running of up to twice the distance of a wild - type littermate .
this be achieve by targeted expression of an activated form of peroxisome proliferator - activate receptor δ ( pparδ ) in skeletal muscle , which induce a switch to form increase number of type i muscle fiber .
treatment of wild - type mouse with pparδ agonist elicit a similar type i fiber gene expression profile in muscle .
moreover , these genetically generate fiber confer resistance to obesity with improve metabolic profile , even in the absence of exercise .
these result demonstrate that complex physiologic property such a fatigue , endurance , and running capacity can be molecularly analyze and manipulate .
introduction
skeletal muscle fiber be generally classify a type i ( oxidative / slow ) or type ii ( glycolytic / fast ) fiber .
they display marked difference in respect to contraction , metabolism , and susceptibility to fatigue .
type i fiber be mitochondrion - rich and mainly use oxidative metabolism for energy production , which provide a stable and long - last supply of atp , and thus be fatigue - resistant .
type ii fiber comprise three subtypes , iia , iix , and iib .
type iib fiber have the low level of mitochondrial content and oxidative enzyme , rely on glycolytic metabolism a a major energy source , and be susceptible to fatigue , while the oxidative and contraction function of type iia and iix lie between type i and iib ( booth and thomason 1991 ; berchtold et al. 2000 ; olson and williams 2000 ) .
adult skeletal muscle show plasticity and can undergo conversion between different fiber type in response to exercise training or modulation of motoneuron activity ( booth and thomason 1991 , jarvis et al. 1996 ; pette 1998 ; olson and williams 2000 ; hood 2001 ) .
this conversion of muscle fiber from type iib to type iia and type i be likely to be mediate by a calcium signaling pathway that involve calcineurin , calmodulin - dependent kinase , and the transcriptional cofactor peroxisome proliferator - activate receptor - gamma coactivator 1α ( pgc - 1α ) ( naya et al. 2000 ; olson and williams 2000 ; lin et al. 2002 ; wu et al. 2002 ) .
however , the target transcriptional factor directly responsible for reprogramming the fiber - specific contractile and metabolic gene remain to be identify .
muscle fiber specification appear to be associate with obesity and diabetes .
for instance , rodent that gain the most weight on high - fat diet possess few type i fiber ( abou et al. 1992 ) .
in obese patient , skeletal muscle have be observe to have reduce oxidative capacity , increase glycolytic capacity , and a decrease percentage of type i fiber ( hickey et al. 1995 ; tanner et al. 2002 ) .
similar observation have be make in type 2 diabetic patient ( lillioja et al. 1987 ; hickey et al. 1995 ) .
recently , it have be show that increase oxidative fiber can lead to improve insulin action and reduce adipocyte size ( luquet et al. 2003 ; ryder et al. 2003 ) .
we have previously establish that peroxisome proliferator - activate receptor ( ppar ) δ be a major transcriptional regulator of fat burning in adipose tissue through activation of enzyme associate with long - chain fatty - acid β - oxidation ( wang et al. 2003 ) .
although pparδ be the predominant ppar isoform present in skeletal muscle , it in vivo function have not be determine .
our current study uncover pparδ a the first transcription factor able to drive the formation of functional type i muscle fiber , whose activation entrain complex pathway both enhance physical performance and create a state of obesity resistance .
result
activation of pparδ lead to muscle fiber transformation
a role of pparδ in muscle fiber be suggest by it enhance expression — at level 10 - fold and 50 - fold great than pparα and γ isoforms , respectively ( unpublished data ) .
an examination of pparδ in different muscle fiber reveal a significantly high level in type i muscle ( soleus ) relative to type ii – rich muscle ( extensor digitorum longus ) or type i and type ii mixed muscle ( gastrocnemius ) ( figure 1a ) ; this expression pattern closely resemble that of pgc - 1α ( lin et al. 2002 ) .
a similar pattern but with more pronounce difference be find at the protein level ( figure 1b ) .
to directly assess the role of activation of pparδ in control of muscle fiber plasticity and mitochondrial biogenesis , we generate mouse express a transgene in which the 78 - amino - acid vp16 activation domain be fuse to the n - terminus of full - length pparδ , under control of the 2.2 - kb human α - skeletal actin promoter .
in agreement with the previous characterization of this promoter ( brennan and hardeman 1993 ; clapham et al. 2000 ) , the vp16 - pparδ transgene be selectively express in skeletal muscle , with 10 - fold less in the heart ( figure 1c ) .
among different type of muscle fiber , the level of vp16 - pparδ expression appear to be similar ( unpublished data ) .
a show in figure 1d for gastrocnemius muscle , vp16 - pparδ fusion protein be produce at a level similar to that of endogenous pparδ in wild - type littermates .
interestingly , the level of endogenous muscle pparδ protein in the transgenic mouse be much high than in the control littermates .
the substantial increase of endogenous pparδ may have be cause by a switch to type i fiber ( see below ) , which intrinsically express high level of pparδ ( figure 1a and 1b ) .
type i muscle can be readily distinguish from type ii or mix muscle by it red color , because of it high concentration of myoglobin , a protein typically express in oxidative muscle fiber .
we find that muscle in the transgenic mouse appear red ( figure 2a ) , which be particularly evident in the mixed type i / ii fiber of the hindlimb ( figure 2b ) .
indeed , metachromatic staining reveal a substantial muscle fiber transformation ( figure 2c ) .
in gastrocnemius muscle , we estimate that there be a 2-fold increase of type i fiber .
a diagnostic component of oxidative fiber be their high myoglobin and mitochondrial content , which be support by the mrna analysis show in figure 3a .
in addition to myoglobin , mitochondrial component for electron transfer ( cytochrome c and cytochrome c oxidase [ cox ] ii and iv ) and fatty - acid β - oxidation enzyme be elevate ( figure 3a ; unpublished data ) .
these effect appear to be direct consequence of pparδ activation , a level of pgc - 1α , a coactivator involve in muscle fiber switch and mitochondrial biogenesis ( wu et al. 1999 ; lehman et al. 2000 ; lin et al. 2002 ) , remain unchanged .
southern blot analysis detect a substantially high copy number of the mitochondrial genome – encode coxii dna in the transgenic mouse ( figure 3b ) .
mitochondrial dna be increase 2.3 - fold in gastrocnemius muscle of the transgenic mouse ( figure 3c ) .
these result reveal a marked stimulation of mitochondrial biogenesis and far support the idea that there be a muscle fiber switch .
this conclusion be also confirm by western blot analysis .
a show in figure 3d , the characteristic type i fiber protein , such a myoglobin and cytochrome c and b , be significantly increase .
more importantly , the specialize contraction protein troponin i ( slow ) of type i fiber be robustly induce ; this be accompany by a marked reduction of the specialize contraction protein troponin i ( fast ) of type ii fiber , indicate a high degree of fiber transformation .
we next examine whether acute activation of endogenous pparδ would induce similar target gene .
in agreement with the chronic effect in the transgenic mouse , we find that , after treatment of wild - type c57b6j mouse with the pparδ - specific agonist gw501516 for only 10 d , gene for slow fiber contractile protein , mitochondrial biogenesis , and β - oxidation be all upregulated ( figure 3e ) .
this indicate that rapid , systematic , and coordinate change of muscle fiber property toward type i can be achieve by activation of the endogenous pparδ pathway .
muscle fiber switch by pparδ protect against obesity
a number of previous study have show that obese individual have few oxidative fiber , imply that the presence of oxidative fiber alone may play a part in obesity resistance .
to test this possibility , we feed the transgenic mouse and their wild - type littermates with a high - fat diet for 97 d .
although the initial body weight of the two group be very similar , the transgenic mouse have gain less than 50 % at day 47 , and only one - third at day 97 , of the weight gain by the wild - type animal ( figure 4a ) .
the transgenic mouse display significantly high oxygen consumption on the high - fat diet than the control littermates ( unpublished data ) .
by the end of this experiment , the control littermates become obese , whereas the transgenic mouse still maintain a normal body weight and fat mass composition ( figure 4a ) .
a histological analysis of inguinal fat pad reveal a much small cell size in the transgenic mouse ( figure 4b ) , due to the increase muscle oxidative capacity .
while there be no significant difference in intramuscular glycogen content , the triglyceride content be much less in the transgenic mouse ( figure 4c and 4d ) , which may explain their improve glucose tolerance ( figure 4e ) .
we also place wild - type c57bj6 mouse on the high - fat diet and treat them with either vehicle or the pparδ agonist gw501516 for 2 mo .
gw501516 produce a sustain induction of gene for type i muscle fiber ; this , at least in part , result in an only 30 % gain in body weight , a dramatically reduce fat mass accumulation , and improve glucose tolerance , compare to the vehicle - treat group ( figure 5 ) .
thus , muscle fiber conversion by stimulation with the pparδ agonist or the activate transgene have a protective role against obesity .
activation of pparδ enhance physical performance
muscle oxidative capacity be a crucial factor for determine endurance and fatigue .
indeed , type i fiber adaptively generate through exercise training be consider to be fatigue resistant .
however , whether the type i fiber generate molecularly via pparδ expression can contribute to enhance performance in the absence of previous training be unclear .
in fact , the consequence of genetically induce fiber switch on run capacity have to our knowledge never be evaluate .
we thus compare exercise performance between untrained , body - weight - match transgenic and wild - type littermates .
mouse be run on oxygen - infuse , enclose treadmill until exhaustion .
strikingly , the running time and distance the transgenic mouse be able to sustain be increase by 67 % and 92 % , respectively ( figure 6a ; also see video s1 and s2 ) .
the transgenic mouse run about 1 h longer than the control , which translate to nearly a kilometer far .
no significant difference in muscle mass ( unpublished data ) and daily activity ( total count of activity per hour : 1618 ± 209 for transgenic versus 1987 ± 301 for wild - type , p > 0.35 , n = 4 ) be observe between the transgenic and control mouse .
thus , the remarkable increase in endurance be the physiologic manifestation of muscle fiber transformation .
this suggest that genetically direct muscle fiber switch be physiologically and functionally relevant .
in addition , we look at what effect the absence of pparδ function have on exercise endurance .
in the treadmill test , the pparδ - null mouse could sustain only 38 % of the running time and 34 % of the distance of their age - and weight - match wild - type counterpart ( figure 6b ) .
these result far support a role for pparδ in enhancement of physical performance .
discussion
our data reveal that a pparδ - mediate transcriptional pathway can regulate muscle fiber specification , enable the generation of a strain of mouse with a “ long - distance running ” phenotype .
we show that target expression of an activated form of pparδ produce profound and coordinate increase in oxidation enzyme , mitochondrial biogenesis , and production of specialize type i fiber contractile protein — the three hallmark for muscle fiber type switching ( figure 6c ) .
while induction of muscle oxidation enzyme by pparδ have be see both in vivo and in vitro ( muoio et al. 2002 ; dressel et al. 2003 ; luquet et al. 2003 ; tanaka et al. 2003 ; wang et al. 2003 ) , it effect show here on muscle fiber switching be unexpected .
these progressive change in oxidative capacity in conjunction with eventual change in type i muscle fiber lead to a dramatically improve exercise profile and protection against obesity .
this do not solely depend on achieve a direct muscle fiber type switch but also require all the associate change in neural innervation , motor neuron function , and peripheral metabolic adaptation to enable a new integrate physiological response .
accordingly , activation of muscle pparδ essentially recapitulate the effect of exercise training even in the absence of train itself .
to our knowledge , this have not be directly describe for any other transcriptional factor .
the muscle phenotype describe here be remarkably similar to those of transgenic mouse express either calcineurin , calmodulin - dependent kinase , or pgc - 1α ( naya et al. 2000 ; lin et al. 2002 ; wu et al. 2002 ) , indicate that pparδ could be one of the hypothetical downstream transcription factor of these pathway .
it be important to note that , from our ligand and gain - of - function transgenic study , pparδ need to be activate in order to direct the muscle fiber switch .
indeed , in a recent report by luquet et al. ( 2003 ) , simple overexpression of wild - type pparδ in muscle be find not to be sufficient to promote a fiber switch or obesity resistance , although certain oxidation enzyme be increase .
this support the model in figure 6c that the activate signal or ligand , but not the receptor , be limit .
thus , pparδ activation , rather than merely an increase of pparδ level , be an essential element for fiber switching and it associate functional manifestation .
how might endogenous pparδ become activate naturally by exercise training ?
first , it be possible that exercise generate or increase endogenous ligand for pparδ a tissue be undergo substantial increase in fatty - acid internalization and burning .
fatty acid and their metabolite can activate pparδ .
a second model be that exercise may induce expression of pgc - 1α ( goto et al. 2000 ) and thereby activate pparδ .
this be consistent with previous work in which we have show that pgc - 1α physically associate with pparδ in muscle tissue and can powerfully activate it even in the absence of ligand ( wang et al. 2003 ) .
alternatively , pparδ may be activate by a distal upstream signaling component such a a kinase cascade .
far dissect the interaction between pparδ and it regulatory component will be necessary to fully understand the molecular basis of muscle fiber determination pertinent to exercise training .
skeletal muscle be a major site to regulate whole - body fatty - acid and glucose metabolism .
we show that mouse with increase oxidative fiber be resistant to high - fat - induce obesity and glucose intolerance .
moreover , ligand study provide compelling evidence that activation of endogenous pparδ can produce similar effect .
might pparδ have any beneficial effect on glucose metabolism in the lean condition ?
this have not be explore ; however , insulin resistance in the elderly be confine mostly to skeletal muscle and may be due to reduction of mitochondrial number and / or function ( petersen et al. 2003 ) .
the ability of pparδ to stimulate mitochondrial biogenesis and oxidative function suggest that pparδ could be important for control of insulin resistance during normal aging .
together , these data indicate that pparδ and it ligand comprise a key molecular switch to regulate muscle fiber specification , obesity resistance , insulin sensitivity , and , most surprisingly , physical endurance .
this work demonstrate that complex physiologic property such a fatigue , endurance , and running capacity can be genetically manipulate .
material and method
animal .
the transactivation domain ( 78 amino acid residue , correspond to residue 413 – 490 ) of vp16 be fuse in frame with the n - terminus of mouse pparδ .
the vp16 - pparδ fusion cdna be place downstream of the human α - skeletal actin promoter ( brennan and hardeman 1993 ) , and upstream of the sv40 intron / poly ( a ) sequence .
the transgene be purify and inject into c57bl / 6j × cba f1 zygote .
transgenic mouse be backcross with c57bl / 6j for two generation .
wild - type littermates be use a control throughout the study .
on normal chow diet , the transgenic mouse and control littermates use here have similar body weight .
pparδ - null mouse be previously generate ( barak et al. 2002 ) .
mouse be feed either a standard chow with 4 % ( w / w ) fat content ( harlan teklad , harlan , indianapolis , indiana , united state ) or a high - fat diet contain 35 % ( w / w ) fat content ( product f3282 , bioserv , frenchtown , new jersey , united state ) a indicate .
for ligand experiment , we synthesize the gw501516 compound and mouse be orally gavaged daily ( 10 mg / kg or vehicle alone ) .
gene expression analysis and physiological study
mouse est clone be obtain from atcc ( manassas , virginia , united state ) , verify by sequencing , and use a northern probe .
antibody be obtain from santa cruz biotechnology ( santa cruz , california , united state ) .
total muscle protein extract ( lin et al. 2002 ) and nuclear protein ( wang et al. 2003 ) be prepare a describe .
prior to the exercise performance test , the mouse be accustom to the treadmill ( columbus instrument , columbus , ohio , united state ) with a 5 - min run at 7 m / min once per day for 2 d .
the exercise test regimen be 10 m / min for the first 60 min , follow by 1 m / min increment increase at 15 - min interval .
exhaustion be define when mouse be unable to avoid repetitive electrical shock .
muscle fiber typing and mitochondrial dna isolation
muscle fiber typing be essentially perform use metachromatic dye – atpase method a describe ( ogilvie and feeback 1990 ) .
muscle mitochondrion be isolate ( scholte et al. 1997 ) .
mitochondrial dna be prepare and analyze on 1 % agarose gel .
statistical analysis
number of mouse for each group use in experiment be indicate in figure legend .
value be present a mean ± sem .
a two - tail student 's t test be use to calculate p - value .
support information
video s1
beginning of running test
this video show the exercise performance of a representative of the transgenic mouse ( right chamber ) and a representative of wild - type control littermates ( left chamber ) on the treadmill 15 min into the exercise challenge .
( 52.4 mb mov ) .
click here for additional data file .
video s2
running test 90 min later
this video show the exercise performance of a representative of the transgenic mouse ( right chamber ) and a representative of wild - type control littermates ( left chamber ) on the treadmill 90 min into the exercise challenge .
( 41.7 mb mov ) .
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank dr. m. downes for provide the α - skeletal actin promoter ; dr. g. d. barish for comment on the manuscript ; m.a. lawrence for histology ; dr. s. pfaff for the use of microscope and photographic equipment ; m. lieberman and k.l. schnoeker for photography ; j.m. shelton for advice on fiber staining ; and e. stevens and e. ong for administrative assistance .
yxw be support by a postdoctoral fellowship from california tobacco - relate disease research program .
jh be support by the bk21 program , ministry of education , korea .
hk be support by grant m1 – 0311 - 00 – 0145 from the molecular and cellular biodiscovery research program , ministry of science and technology , korea .
rme be an investigator of the howard hughes medical institute at the salk institute for biological study and march of dime chair in molecular and developmental biology .
this work be support by the howard hughes medical institute and the hillblom foundation .
abbreviation
cox - cytochrome c oxidase
mcpt1 - muscle carnitine palmitoyltransferase - 1
pgc - 1α - peroxisome proliferator - activate receptor - gamma coactivator 1α
ppar - peroxisome proliferator - activate receptor
ucp - uncouple protein
figure and table
figure 1
expression of endogenous pparδ and vp16 - pparδ transgene in muscle
( a ) pool rna isolate from various muscle of five wild - type male c57b6 mouse be hybridize with indicate probe .
edl , extensor digitorum longus ; gastro , gastrocnemius .
( b ) pool nuclear protein ( 15 μg / lane ) isolate from muscle of five wild - type male c57b6 be probe with anti-pparδ antibody .
rna polymerase ii ( pol ii ) be show a a loading control .
( c ) expression of the vp16 - pparδ transgene in various tissue .
10 μg of total rna from each tissue be hybridize with a vp16 cdna probe .
gastrocnemius muscle be use here .
( d ) nuclear protein ( 15 μg / lane ) isolate from gastrocnemius muscle of the transgenic mouse ( tg ) and the wild - type littermates ( wt ) be probe with indicated antibody .
the upper , nonspecific band that cross-reacted with the anti-pparδ antibody serve a loading control .
figure 2
increase oxidative type i fiber in the transgenic mouse
( a and b ) muscle in transgenic mouse ( tg ) be red than those in wild - type mouse ( wt ) .
( c ) metachromatic staining of the type ii plantaris muscle .
type i fiber be stain dark blue .
figure 3
activation of pparδ induce gene typical for type i fiber and promote mitochondrial biogenesis
( a ) total rna ( 10 μg / lane ) prepare from gastrocnemius muscle of transgenic ( tg ) and wild - type ( wt ) littermates be probe with indicate probe .
the fold increase of induction of each gene be show .
( b ) total genomic dna ( 10 μg / lane ) prepare from gastrocnemius muscle be digest with nco1 and subject to southern analysis with coxii ( mitochondrial genome – encode ) and mcip1 ( nuclear genome – encode ) dna probe .
( c ) equal amount of gastrocnemius muscle be collect from both transgenic mouse and control littermates .
total mitochondrial dna be isolate and separate on 1 % agarose gel .
the relative abundance of mitochondrial dna in transgenic and wild - type mouse be present .
( d ) western blot analysis of muscle fiber marker and mitochondrial component .
each lane be load with 80 μg of total gastrocnemius muscle extract .
( e ) wild - type c57b6 mouse be treat with vehicle or pparδ agonist gw501516 for 10 d .
total rna ( 10 μg / lane ) prepare from the gastrocnemius muscle be probe with indicate probe .
figure 4
resistance to high - fat - induce obesity in the transgenic mouse
( a ) seven - week - old transgenic ( tg ) and wild - type ( wt ) littermates ( n = 5 – 6 for each group ) be feed with a high - fat diet for 97 d .
left panel show net body weight gain , which be calculate for individual mouse and then average .
right panel show the body weight before ( day 0 ) and after ( day 97 ) high - fat feeding .
( b ) histology of inguinal fat pad in the transgenic and wild - type littermates under a high - fat diet for 2 mo .
( c and d ) intramuscular glycogen content ( c ) and triglyceride content ( d ) of mouse in ( a ) after high - fat feeding ( n = 6 ) .
( e ) glucose tolerance test .
mouse in ( a ) after high - fat feeding be fast for 6 h and then inject with glucose at a concentration of 1g / kg body weight .
then blood glucose level be measure periodically over 2 h ( n = 6 ) .
figure 5
pparδ agonist counteract obesity induce by high - fat diet
( a ) eleven - week - old wild - type c57b6 mouse be feed a high - fat diet in combination with vehicle or gw501516 for 57 d .
total rna ( 10 μg / lane ) prepare from the gastrocnemius muscle be probe with indicate probe .
( b ) net body weight gain for mouse in ( a ) after treatment be calculate for individual mouse and average .
initial body weight be 28.54 ± 1.04 g for vehicle group ( n = 5 ) and 28.86 ± 0.80 g for gw501516 group ( n = 5 ) .
( c ) various tissue weight for mouse in ( a ) after treatment .
ifat , inguinal fat ; rdfat , reproductive fat ; retrofat , retroperitoneal fat .
( d ) glucose tolerance test .
mouse in ( a ) after treatment be fast for 6 h and then inject with glucose at a concentration of 1g / kg body weight .
blood glucose level be then measure periodically over 2 h .
figure 6
pparδ regulate exercise endurance
( a ) enhance exercise performance in the transgenic mouse .
fourteen - week - old male transgenic and wild - type littermates with similar body weight ( n = 4 for each group ) be subject to a force treadmill exercise test .
( b ) compromise exercise performance in pparδ - null mouse .
two - month - old male pparδ - null mouse and wild - type control with similar body weight ( n = 6 for each group ) be subject to a force treadmill exercise test .
( c ) function of pparδ in skeletal muscle .
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
yxw and rme conceive and design the experiment .
yxw , clz , rty , mcn , and crbo perform the experiment .
yxw , clz , and rme analyze the data .
hkc , jh , and hk contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
yxw and rme write the paper .
academic editor : steve o'rahilly , university of cambridge
citation : wang yx , zhang cl , yu rt , cho hk , nelson mc , et al. ( 2004 ) regulation of muscle fiber type and running endurance by pparδ .
plo biol 2 ( 10 ) : e294 .
deficit in spatial learning and motor coordination in adam11 - deficient mouse
abstract
background
adam11 be a member of the adam gene family and be mainly express in the nervous system .
it be think to be an adhesion molecule , since it have a disintegrin - like domain relate to cell - cell or cell - matrix interaction .
to elucidate the physiological function of adam11 , we generate adam11 - deficient mouse by mean of gene targeting .
result
adam11 - deficient mouse be apparently normal , and survive more than one year with no major histological abnormality in the brain or spinal cord .
because adam11 be highly express in the hippocampus and cerebellum , we have examine adam11 mutant mouse for learn use visual and hidden water maze task , and their motor coordination use a rotate rod task .
our result show that their visual water maze task result be normal , but the hidden water maze and rotate rod task skill be impaired in adam11 - deficient mouse .
conclusion
our result indicate that adam11 mutation do not affect cell migration and differentiation during development , but affect learning and motor coordination .
thus , adam11 might play an important signalling or structural role a a cell adhesion molecule at the synapse , and may thus participate in synaptic regulation underlie behavioural change .
background
the adam ( a disintegrin and metalloprotease ) family comprise membrane - span multi-domain protein contain a metalloproteinase - like domain and a disintegrin - like domain .
approximately half of the adam be catalytically active metalloproteases that shed a broad range of substrate , such a cytokine , growth factor , receptor , adhesion molecule [ 1 , 2 ] .
recent gene - disruption study in mouse have disclose a physiological role of each adam .
for example , adam10 , adam17 and adam19 be critical for normal development by provide growth signal at the correct time and place [ 3 - 6 ] .
in contrast , the function of adam8 , adam9 , adam12 and adam15 be not essential for embryogenesis , suggest a possible functional redundancy with other protease [ 7 - 10 ] .
the remain half , which be non-protease - adam , be think to be adhesion molecule .
more than ten adam have be show to support integrin - mediate cell adhesion in vitro [ 11 ] .
more recently , the finding have be report that integrin - mediate cell migration of tissue culture cell can be control by distinct adam [ 12 ] .
in c. elegans , unc - 71 gene cod a non-protease - adam protein have be show to be involve in cell migration event in vivo [ 13 ] .
however , the physiological role of mammalian non-protease - adam be poorly understand in vivo .
genetic deletion study in mouse have show that both adam2 - null and adam3 - null male mutant be infertile and their spermatozoon lack egg - bind ability [ 14 - 16 ] .
the precise mechanism be under investigation [ 17 ] .
we have report the finding of adam11 , adam22 and adam23 gene and their restrict expression in the human and murine nervous system [ 18 , 19 ] .
these adam lack a catalytic motif critical for the metalloproteinase activity , suggest that they be not protease .
we assume that these adam might contribute to cell migration , differentiation and survival or synaptic regulation by bind to integrins , cell - surface protein or intracellular signalling molecule [ 20 , 21 ] .
we have report severe ataxia , seizure , and death before weaning , accompany with hypomyelination of the peripheral nervous system in adam22 - null mutant mouse [ 22 ] .
it have be report that the disruption of adam23 gene in the mouse result in premature death associate with ataxia and tremor [ 23 ] .
is spite of such extreme phenotype , no histological defect in the brain have be observe in either adam22 - null nor adam23 - null mouse .
adam11 be the close paralog of adam22 and adam23 , and it orthologs have be find in vertebrate , but not in invertebrate .
it have be report that the xenopus adam11 ortholog , xmdc11a , have an expression pattern associate with neural development , with a propose role in cell migration [ 24 ] ; and it have be report in analysis use northern blot and in situ hybridisation method that the murine adam11 gene be express in both the develop and adult nervous system [ 19 , 25 ] .
these finding lead u to hypothesise that adam11 be an integrin binder that play an important role in the nervous system , a do adam22 and adam23 .
to determine the physiological function of adam11 , we generate and analyse adam11 gene - target mouse .
result
generation of adam11 - deficient mouse
mouse carry a target mutation in their adam11 gene be generate by homologous recombination ( fig. 1a ) .
correct targeting event be confirm by southern blot analysis ( fig. 1b ) .
a a result of this procedure , since a termination codon be introduce in exon 5 in the pro-protein domain , only the truncate form of the adam11 protein would be synthesise from this target allele .
because pro-protein domain be always remove in mature functional adam - protein by furin - like protease and be thus think to be non-functional , we conclude that this truncate form of adam11 protein would have no function [ 26 ] .
absence of mature adam11 protein in homozygous mutant be confirm by western blot analysis use a specific antibody that recognise the adam11 protein ( fig. 1c ) .
analysis by western blot show that heterozygous mutant produce approximately half of the wild - type level of adam11 protein .
adam11 - deficient mouse be viable and appear normal
mat of mouse heterozygous for the adam11 mutation yield a near - mendelian distribution of genotype in the offspring and the ratio of female and male be the same in all group ( data not show ) .
for the present experiment , adam11 - deficient male mouse ( backcross generation into c57bl / 6ncrj , n = 14 ) be use in all behavioural analysis and anatomical - histological study .
homozygous adam11 - deficient mouse be viable and appear normal , indicate that the adam11 gene be not essential to development and survival .
the gain in body weight of ( - / - ) mouse be comparable to that of ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse at least until 24 week of age ( data not show ) .
there be no significant difference in locomotor activity among ( + / + ) , ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) genotype ( data not show ) .
no apparent anatomical - histological change be observe in the spinal cord , heart , lung , liver , kidney , spleen , testis or ovary ( data not show ) .
the brain of ( - / - ) mouse , include the hippocampus ( fig. 1d ) and cerebellum ( fig. 1e ) appear normal after he staining when ( + / + ) , ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) mouse be compare .
since adam11 be predominantly express in the hippocampus and cerebellum , we apply hippocampus - or cerebellum - dependent behavioural analysis .
spatial learning in adam11 - deficient mouse
to study the function of adam11 in the hippocampus , we examine the spatial learning ability of adam11 - deficient mouse use the morris water maze task [ 27 ] .
first , mouse be train in a hidden platform task , in which mouse search for a submerge platform to escape from the water .
adam11 ( - / - ) mouse be find to take a significantly long time to locate the hidden platform than ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse ( fig. 2a ) .
nonetheless , the ability of ( + / + ) , ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) mouse to find the hidden platform improve over test session ( fig. 2a ) .
thus , ( + / + ) , ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) mouse be able to learn the location of the hidden platform during the course of the trial , although the capacity of ( - / - ) mouse to find the platform be low than that of ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse .
we far perform a probe test , in which the platform be remove from the pool after completion of the hidden platform task , and the train mouse be allow to swim freely for 60 sec .
the time spend in the target quadrant of ( - / - ) be significantly low than that of ( + / + ) mouse ( fig. 2b ) .
adam11 ( + / - ) mouse appear to spend a short time in the target quadrant , but there be no significant difference between ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse ( fig. 2b ) .
these result indicate a spatial learning impairment in ( - / - ) mouse .
the swimming distance of ( + / + ) , ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) mouse , however , be similar during the probe trial ( fig. 2c ) .
in the visible platform task , the performance of mouse with ( + / + ) , ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) genotype improve during the course of the test session , a indicate by a progressive decrease in the latency for locate the platform ( fig. 2d ) , suggest that ( - / - ) mouse learn this visible platform task just as well a ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse .
these result also indicate that ( - / - ) mouse have normal visible and motor function and the motivation need in the water maze task .
motor function of adam11 - deficient mouse
to study the function of adam11 in the cerebellum , we examine the motor function of adam11 - deficient mouse use a rotate rod task [ 28 ] .
in the rotate rod test , the retention time of ( + / - ) and ( - / - ) mouse on the rod be not significantly different from that of ( + / + ) mouse at 0 rpm ( stationary ) [ + / - : f ( 1 , 80 ) = 1.67 , p = 0.21 ; - / - : f ( 1 , 88 ) = 0.002 , p = 0.96 ] ( fig. 3a ) .
in ( + / - ) mouse , the tendency of decrease retention time be see at 5 , 10 and 15 rpm , but there be no significant difference between ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse [ 5 rpm : f ( 1 , 20 ) = 1.27 , p = 0.27 ; 10 rpm : f ( 1 , 20 ) = 1.07 , p = 0.31 ; 15 rpm : f ( 1 , 20 ) = 2.716 , p = 0.11 ] ( figs. 3b , 3c and 3d ) .
however , ( - / - ) mouse fell more quickly from the rod than ( + / + ) mouse at 5 , 10 and 15 rpm [ 5 rpm : f ( 1 , 27.3 ) = 17.51 , p = 0.0002 ; 10 rpm : f ( 1 , 22 ) = 11.05 , p = 0.003 ; 15 rpm : f ( 1 , 22 ) = 19.22 , p = 0.0002 ] ( figs. 3b , 3c and 3d ) .
the retention time be not significantly improve in ( - / - ) mouse across trial of training at 5 , 10 and 15 rpm [ 5 rpm : f ( 3 , 15.3 ) = 2.05 , p = 0.15 ; 10 rpm : f ( 7 , 11 ) = 2.61 , p = 0.07 ; 15 rpm : f ( 19 , 26.6 ) = 1.57 , p = 0.14 ] ( figs. 3b , 3c and 3d ) .
in a traction test , ( - / - ) mouse show a high grip strength similar to that of ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse ( fig. 4 ) .
the hang score and time of ( - / - ) mouse be also similar to those of ( + / + ) and ( + / - ) mouse ( figs. 5a and 5b ) .
a footprint test do not reveal any abnormality in walk pattern , include stride length and step width , a a function of genotype ( figs. 6a and 6b ) .
discussion
in the present study , we examine the function of adam11 by generate mouse that lack the adam11 gene .
it have be report that the adam11 gene be express in the brain , heart , liver and testis , a manifest in northern blot analysis [ 19 ] .
interestingly , adam11 - deficient mouse appear normal and survive more than one year without apparent histological abnormality , include the brain , heart , liver and testis .
the expression pattern of the adam11 gene in the brain have be study use in situ hybridisation [ 25 ] .
this study have show high expression of adam11 mrna in the hippocampus and cerebellum .
we therefore focus on examine the hippocampus - and cerebellum - dependent behavioural test to study the function of adam11 in the nervous system .
it be widely accept that the hippocampus be involve in the performance of the hidden platform version of the water maze test , since lesion of the hippocampal pathway lead to a severe impairment of learn in this task [ 29 ] .
in the hidden platform task , adam11 - deficient mouse need more time to reach the platform than wild - type mouse .
spatial learning be also assess use a probe trial , in which the platform be remove from the pool on the day follow nine day of training .
the wild - type mouse spend significantly more time search for the platform in the target quadrant than the other quadrant .
however , adam11 - deficient mouse do not search selectively in the target quadrant .
on the other hand , in the visible platform version , in which the motor ability and visual acuity of the mouse be test , adam11 - defieient mouse be normal .
these result indicate that adam11 - deficient mouse show a spatial learning impairment .
the cerebellum be in charge of the smooth coordination of somatic motor activity , regulation of muscle tone , and mechanism that influence and maintain equilibrium [ 30 ] .
it be widely accept that the cerebellum be involve in the performance of the rotate rod task , since mouse with structural abnormality in the cerebellum [ 31 ] or with disruption in gene enrich in the cerebellum [ 32 ] exhibit performance deficit in this task .
in the rotate rod test in this study , although the retention time of adam11 - deficient mouse on the rod be not different from wild - type mouse at 0 rpm ( stationary ) , adam11 - deficient mouse fell more quickly from the rod than wild - type mouse at 5 , 10 and 15 rpm .
these result indicate that adam11 - deficient mouse have a deficit in motor coordination .
on the other hand , in the visual platform version of the water maze task , motor ability for swimming in adam11 - deficient mouse be normal .
these result suggest that there might be a different mechanism of motor function between swimming and the rotate rod task .
it have be also report that the cerebellum be involve in another important distinct function : learning associate with component movement ( motor learning ) [ 33 ] .
the retention time of synaptotagmin ( syt ) iv - deficient mouse on the rod be significantly short than wild - type mouse , and they improve it approximately to the same rate a do wild - type mouse during rotate rod performance [ 34 ] .
these data suggest the basis for the performance deficit on the rotate rod task in the syt iv mutant be in motor coordination rather than in motor learning .
the result in the present study show that adam11 - deficient mouse slightly , though not significantly , improve motor learning ability during rotate rod performance .
however , the deficit of motor learning in adam11 - deficient mouse be not clear in this study .
because they could not ride on the rotate rod , they might not learn this task .
to examine motor learning ability in adam11 - deficient mouse in detail , we will need to use other cerebellar - dependent learning task , such a a classical eyelid condition test .
there be no impairment in the grip strength and wire suspension test in adam11 - deficient mouse .
spontaneous motor activity and walk pattern of adam11 - deficient mouse be also find to be normal , suggest that the dysfunction find in the rotate rod test be not derive from muscle weakness or other peripheral disturbance .
these result suggest that limited brain site , mainly the hippocampus and cerebellum , might contribute to the dominant phenotype , spatial learning impairment and motor discoordination in adam11 - deficient mouse .
in situ hybridisation analysis have detect adam11 gene expression in the pyramidal cell of ca1 – ca3 field and granule cell of the dentate gyrus in the hippocampus and in granular cell in the cerebellum [ 25 ] .
it be unlikely that morphological change during development lead to impairment of spatial learning and motor coordination , and morphological alteration in the cytoarchitecture of the hippocampus and cerebellum be not observe in adam11 - deficient mouse after histological investigation use he staining .
however , because it be think that adam11 play a role in neuron - neuron or neuron - glial cell interaction , a more precise morphological investigation will be need .
it have be report that adhesion molecule , such a neural cell adhesion molecule ( ncam ) , be not only implicate in cell interaction during nervous system development , but be also recognise a important mediator of synaptic plasticity in the adult nervous system [ 35 ] .
change in neuron excitability in the hippocampus , such a decrease in the post-burst after hyperpolarization ( ahp ) , have be think to affect long - term potentiation ( ltp ) [ 36 ] , an experimental model of the synaptic change think to underlie learning and memory [ 37 ] .
it have also be report that mouse lack nmda receptor for both nr2a and nr2c subunit show motor dysfunction and complete loss of both spontaneous and evoke excitatory postsynaptic current ( epscs ) in cerebellar granule cell [ 38 ] .
therefore , electrophyological study to enable analysis of synaptic transmission and plasticity in the hippocampus and cerebellum of adam11 - deficient mouse will be need .
these study might clarify whether adam11 play an important signalling or structural role at the synaptic level and whether it participate in synaptic regulation .
adam11 - deficient mouse remain alive for more than one year without ataxia or tremor , but show a deficit in spatial learning and motor dysfunction .
on the other hand , mouse lack the adam22 gene show severe ataxia , exhibit marked hypomyelination of the peripheral nerve , and die before weaning [ 22 ] .
mouse lack the adam23 gene show severe ataxia and tremor and die before weaning [ 23 ] .
these finding suggest that adam11 , adam22 and adam23 have separate and important role in the nervous system .
a genome database search reveal orthologs of adam11 , adam22 and adam23 gene to exist in vertebrate such a mammal , fish , and amphibian , but not in invertebrate .
although the precise molecular function of these adam be still unclear , further investigation will provide clue to understand the nervous system of high organism .
conclusion
adam11 - deficient mouse survive more than one year without ataxia or tremor , show no abnormality in body weight gain , spontaneous motor activity , muscle strength , or walking pattern , and exhibit no apparent anatomical - histological change .
however , hippocampus - dependent spatial learning and cerebellum - dependent motor coordination in adam11 - deficient mouse be impair when test use water maze and rotate rod task .
our genetically modify mouse strain have the potential to be a useful and sensitive tool for detailed investigation of adam protein ' function in the nervous system .
method
construction of an adam11 gene - target vector
the 13.7 - kb bamhi dna fragment cover exon 2 – 20 of the adam11 gene be amplify from c57bl / 6 genomic dna by the pcr use expand hi - fidelity polymerase mix ( roche diagnostics kk , tokyo , japan ) .
to generate a mutation in the mouse adam11 gene , we insert a pgkneo cassette into exon 5 – 7 of the adam11 gene .
the final targeting construct consist of a 10.1 - kb genomic dna fragment that be interrupt by the insertion of the pgkneo cassette and contain a mc1 / tk cassette a a negative selection marker against random integration [ 39 ] .
generation of adam11 deficient mouse
the linearise targeting vector be electroporated into tt2 embryonic stem ( e ) cell [ 40 ] .
homologous recombinant be select by pcr use the follow primer , agn1 : 5 ' - tcgtgctttacggtatcgccgctcccgatt - 3 ' in the pgkneo cassette , and sgn033 : 5 ' - ggacccggaagacatttgcacggt - 3 ' outside the targeting vector .
homologous recombine dna be efficiently amplify by 35 cycle of the follow amplification step ( 94 °c - 30 sec and 68 °c - 5 min ) .
correctly target e clone be inject into fertilise icr mouse egg at the eight - cell stage .
the result male chimera be mat with c57bl / 6ncrj female ( charles river japan , tokyo , japan ) , and result heterozygous ( + / - ) male and female mouse be interbreed to generate homozygous ( - / - ) mouse .
southern blot analysis
mouse genomic dna use for southern blot analysis be extract from the liver of each genotype .
bamhi - digest genomic dna be probe with the [ 32p ] - label be2k probe , which be a 2.0 - kb bamhi – ecori genomic fragment locate in intron 2 .
western blot analysis
the absence of adam11 protein in the ( - / - ) mouse be confirm by western blot analysis .
to be brief , the cerebellum be isolate from a six month - old mouse of each genotype and homogenise in cell lysis buffer ( 50 mm tris - hcl , ph 7.5 , 100 mm nacl , 1 % np - 40 , protease inhibitor cocktail [ roche diagnostics ] ) .
after removal of cell debris by centrifugation , the glycosylated protein in the supernatant be concentrate by the affinity chromatography use con a sepharose 4b ( amersham bioscience corp. ) .
each sample be separate on 10 % sd - page , and transfer to a pvdf membrane .
the blot be then incubate with monoclonal antibody against the adam11 ( u. s. patent 5,631,351 ) at 1 μg / ml .
bound antibody be visualise with horseradish peroxidase - label second antibody and an ecl - plus chemiluminescence detection system ( amersham bioscience corp. ) .
behavioural analysis
all animal procedure conform to the japanese regulation on animal care and use , follow the guideline for animal experimentation of the japanese association for laboratory of animal science , and be approve by the animal care and use committee of eisai co. , ltd .
for the present experiment , adam11 - deficient male mouse ( backcross generation into c57bl / 6ncrj , n = 14 ) be use in all behavioural analysis ( 22 – 24 week of age ) .
all of the behavioural study be conduct between 10 : 00 and 16 : 00 by a well - train experimenter blind to the mouse genotype .
spontaneous motor activity
locomotor activity in a novel environment be measure by introduce mouse ( + / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 8 , 8 and 8 , respectively ) for 90 min in a plexiglas box ( 30 × 20 × 13 cm ) use a versamax equipment and software ( accuscan , columbus , oh , usa ) .
water maze task
spatial learning be assess by three variant of the morris water maze task [ 27 ] adapt for mouse .
hidden platform task : the pool be divide into four quadrant with four starting location , call north , east , south and west , at equal distance to the rim .
a circular , transparent acrylic platform ( diameter 8 cm ) be submerge 1 cm below the surface of the water in the centre of the southeast quadrant for each trial of this task .
each mouse be allow to swim for 60 sec and the time require to reach the platform ( escape latency ) be record in each trial .
in total this task consist of four trial per day over 9 day ( 1 min inter-trial interval ) .
each trial be initiate by randomly place an animal in one of the four starting location .
probe trial : a single probe trial be carry out after the hidden platform task have be complete .
in this trial , the platform be remove and the movement of each mouse be monitor use a computer - base video tracking system ( bta - 2 ; muromachi kikai co. , ltd. , tokyo , japan ) .
each mouse be place into the northwest quadrant of the pool and allow to swim for 60 sec .
swim path length and the time spend in the train ( southeast ) quadrant be calculate .
visible platform task : in this task , the circular platform be make visible by attach a black board to it and the mouse be require to locate the visible platform .
the mouse be allow to swim for 60 sec and this task consist of four trial per day for three consecutive day ( 1 min inter-trial interval ) .
each trial be initiate by randomly place an animal in one of the four starting location .
rotate rod test
motor coordination be assess with a rotate rod apparatus ( kn - 75 , natsume seisakujo , tokyo , japan ) , which consist of a plastic rod ( 3 cm diameter , 8 cm long ) with a gritted surface flank by two large disc ( 40 cm diameter ) .
the mouse be first place on the stationary rod for 4 successive trial , follow by 4 trial at a rotation speed of 5 rpm , 8 trial at 10 rpm , and 20 trial at 15 rpm in that order .
latency until a fall occur be monitor for 120 sec .
intra-trial interval for each animal be more than 20 min .
traction test
the grip strength of each mouse be measure with a traction apparatus ( fu - 1 , muromachi kikai co. , ltd. ) .
each mouse be make to grasp the attach bar ( 2 mm diameter ) with the forepaw and be slowly pull back by the tail .
the maximum tension before release be record .
wire suspension test
a mouse be place on a stainless bar ( 50 cm length , 2 mm diameter , elevate up to 37 cm from a surface ) at a point midway between the support and observe for 30 sec in four separate trial .
the amount of time spend hang be record and score accord to the follow system [ 41 ] : 0 , fell off ; 1 , hang onto the bar with two forepaw ; 2 , in addition to 1 , attempt to climb onto the bar ; 3 , hang onto the bar with two forepaw and one or both hind paw ; 4 , hang onto the bar with all four paw with tail wrap around the bar ; 5 , escape to one of the support .
footprint test
black ink be apply to the hind paw of each mouse and the mouse be place in a narrow alley ( 9 × 25 × 10 cm ) on white paper .
stride length and step width be calculate .
statistic
data be express a the mean ± sem .
statistical analysis be conduct use the software package sa 8.1 ( sa institute japan ltd. , tokyo , japan ) .
statistical significance be determine by analysis of variance ( anova ) follow by the dunnett - type multiple comparison test , and p value of less than 0.05 be consider to be significant in the water maze task .
behavioural data in the rotate rod test be analyse by one - or two - way anova with repeat measure , and p value of less than 0.05 be consider to be significant .
histopathology
section of tissue include the brain , spinal cord , heart , lung , liver , kidney , spleen and testis from mouse ( + / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 7 , 7 and 7 , respectively ) be fix in 10 % buffer formalin and embed in paraffin .
each paraffin section of thick 4 μm be stain with hematoxylin and eosin ( he ) .
author ' contribution
k be lead this project , and perform cdna cloning , plasmid construction , antibody production , biochemical study , and write the manuscript .
et be also lead this project , perform the generation of knockout mouse and behavioural analysis , and write the manuscript .
to and ky contribute to the generation of knockout mouse .
tn and jk supervise the project .
all author read and approve the manuscript .
acknowledgement
we be grateful to isao tanaka , masayuki okada , mitsuhiro ino , norimasa miyamoto , kappei tsukahara , hiroyuki kato , hiroo ogura , tatsuto fukushima , yoshiaki furuya , jiro sonoda ( eisai co. , ltd. ) , paul frankland ( university of toronto ) , and hachiro sugimoto ( kyoto university ) for fruitful discussion and advice .
figure and table
figure 1
target mutation of adam11 .
( a ) top ; domain structure of adam11 protein .
pro , proprotein ; mp , metalloprotease - like ; dis , disintegrin - like ; cr / egf , cysteine - rich and egf - like repeat ; tm , transmembrane ; cyto , cytoplasmic domain .
adam11 gene be disrupt by the insertion of a termination codon and a pgkneo cassette into exon 5 – 7 .
an mc1 / tk cassette at the end of the targeting vector allow for negative selection .
the be2k - probe use for southern blot analysis , and the expect bamhi " b " fragment of the target allele ( tg ) and wild - type allele ( wt ) be indicate by arrow .
the primer , agn1 and 033 be use for the selection of the recombinant e clone .
( b ) southern blot analysis of mouse genomic dna .
the expect dna fragment for the wild - type allele ( wt ) and target allele ( tg ) be 13.7 - kb and 10.3 - kb , respectively .
+ / + , wild - type ; + / - , heterozygote ; - / - , homozygote .
( c ) western blot analysis of adam11 expression in the mouse cerebellum .
absence of adam11 protein in the ( - / - ) mutant cerebellum be show use anti-adam11 monoclonal antibody .
" p " indicate the positive control , ha - tag mouse adam11 protein express in hela cell .
white circle indicate mature - form of adam11 protein and black circle show immature - form , which be not process .
( d ) hippocampus section with he stain .
scar = 30 μm .
( e ) cerebellum section with he stain .
scar = 200 μm .
figure 2
morris water maze task of adam11 - deficient mouse .
( a ) escape latency ( sec ) in the hidden platform task over nine testing day .
asterisk : significant ( p < 0.05 ) difference from ( + / + ) mouse .
( b ) the probe test after the acquisition trial of the hidden platform task .
time spend in each quadrant of the water pool be show .
asterisk : significant ( p < 0.05 ) difference from ( + / + ) mouse .
tq , training quadrant ; ar , adjacent right quadrant ; al , adjacent left quadrant ; op , opposite quadrant .
( c ) swimming distance ( cm ) during the probe test .
( d ) escape latency ( sec ) in the visible platform task over three testing day .
+ / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 11 , 14 and 12 , respectively .
figure 3
retention time of adam11 - deficient mouse on the rotate rod at speed of 0 rpm ( stationary ) , 5 , 10 and 15 rpm .
asterisk : significant ( p < 0.05 ) difference from ( + / + ) mouse .
+ / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 11 , 14 and 12 , respectively .
figure 4
traction test ( g ) of adam11 - deficient mouse .
+ / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 12 , 10 and 12 , respectively .
figure 5
wire suspension test of adam11 - deficient mouse .
( a ) score in the wire suspension test .
( b ) retention time ( sec ) in the wire suspension test .
+ / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 12 , 10 and 12 , respectively .
figure 6
footprint test of adam11 - deficient mouse .
( a ) stride length ( cm ) in the footprint test .
( b ) step width ( cm ) in the footprint test .
+ / + , + / - and - / - ; n = 12 , 10 and 12 , respectively .
mutation at the evi1 locus in junbo mouse cause susceptibility to otitis medium
abstract
otitis medium ( om ) , inflammation of the middle ear , remain the most common cause of hearing impairment in child .
it be also the most common cause of surgery in child in the developed world .
there be evidence from study of the human population and mouse model that there be a significant genetic component predispose to om , yet nothing be know about the underlie genetic pathway involve in human .
we identify an n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea - induce dominant mouse mutant junbo with hearing loss due to chronic suppurative om and otorrhea .
this develop from acute om that arise spontaneously in the postnatal period , with the age of onset and early severity dependent on the microbiological status of the mouse and their air quality .
we have identify the causal mutation , a missense change in the c - terminal zinc finger region of the transcription factor evi1 .
this protein be express in middle ear basal epithelial cell , fibroblast , and neutrophil leukocyte at postnatal day 13 and 21 when inflammatory change be underway .
the identification and characterization of the junbo mutant elaborate a novel role for evi1 in mammalian disease and implicate a new pathway in genetic predisposition to om .
synopsis
otitis medium ( om ) , inflammation of the middle ear , be the most common cause of deafness in child .
although acute episode of om in child be associate with middle ear infection , in a substantial portion of case recurrent episode of om , or a chronic suppurative om , will develop .
there be evidence from genetic study of human family that there be a significant genetic component contribute to the development of recurrent and chronic form of om .
however , the gene involve have not be identify .
the author have identify and characterize mouse mutant that demonstrate chronic om a a route to identify gene involve with om .
this study describe one mutant , junbo , which share many feature with human om .
junbo develop an acute om follow birth that subsequently develop into a chronic suppurative form of om .
junbo carry a mutation in the transcription factor gene , evi1 .
evi1 be express in a variety of cell type in the middle ear lining when inflammatory change be underway .
the identification of the junbo mutation implicate a new gene involve in predisposition to om .
introduction
otitis medium ( om ) , inflammation of the middle ear , remain the most common cause of hear impairment in child [ 1 , 2 ] .
acute episode of om in infant and child be most often associate with middle ear infection involve the pathogen streptococcus pneumoniae and haemophilus influenzae [ 3 ] .
prolonged stimulation of the inflammatory response , along with poor mucociliary clearance , can also lead to the persistence of middle ear fluid give rise to the clinical presentation of otitis medium with effusion [ 2 ] .
in a substantial portion of child , recurrent episode of om or a chronic suppurative om will develop .
the high prevalence of the disease , couple with it recurrent and chronic nature , account for the large number of tympanostomies undertake in affect child .
om be still the most common cause of surgery in child in the develop world .
there be still considerable debate over the etiology of om and the underlie pathological mechanism [ 2 ] .
however , risk factor for om include craniofacial abnormality , impaired mucocilliary function , and the presence of an inflammatory stimulus , such a bacteria .
there be evidence from study of the human population and mouse model that there be a significant genetic component predispose to recurrent or chronic om [ 4 – 7 ] , yet little be know about the underlie genetic pathway involve .
while several inbred strain be predispose to the development of om , their genetic analysis and utility be compound by the complex genetic base and the low penetrance of the phenotype [ 6 ] .
in addition , there be several mouse mutant that demonstrate an om phenotype , but the om develop a part of a complex syndrome with a wide spectrum of phenotype [ 6 ] .
it will be important to identify and characterize the gene underlie highly penetrant mouse mutant that develop om in the absence of other diverse pathology and represent appropriate model for om in the human population .
large - scale phenotype - drive mouse enu ( n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea ) mutagenesis program provide a rich source of novel mutant phenotype that be the basis for systematic effort to identify the genetic basis for diverse disease state [ 8 – 10 ] .
one such screen at mrc harwell , recover a large number of mutant phenotype represent enu - induce mutation at a number of novel locus in the mammalian genome [ 9 ] .
mouse model have and continue to play an important role in study the genetic cause of hearing impairment .
a number of mutation have be clone and have provide u with several profound insight into the critical protein involve with the development and function of the auditory apparatus at the level of both the middle and inner ear [ 11 , 12 ] .
nevertheless , it be clear that we do not possess mouse mutant for all locus and pathway potentially involve in hearing impairment .
we report the characterization of a new mutant , junbo , identify in the harwell mutagenesis program a have a deafness phenotype .
junbo be a model of om that share many feature with the human condition .
acute om arise spontaneously in the postnatal period and develop into chronic suppurative om with otorrhea .
the underlie molecular basis of this phenotype have be identify a a mutation in the evi1 transcription factor cause a nonconservative asn763ile change in the second of the two zinc - finger domain in this protein .
the junbo mouse highlight a new role for the transcription factor evi1 and provide the first evidence for the genetic pathway involve in the etiology of this complex childhood disease .
result
identification , mapping , and cloning of the junbo mutation
an enu mutagenesis screen [ 9 ] identify a new dominant mutant , junbo ( jbo ) , with hearing loss .
preliminary phenotyping use a click - box test ( see material and method ) of an age - match cohort derive from the founder mouse indicate that mouse demonstrate a hearing loss at ~ 40 d after birth ( dab ) .
we use a pool strategy employ dna from affect mouse and genome - wide fluorescent simple sequence length polymorphism - base screening [ 9 , 13 ] to provide an initial map position for the jbo mutation on chromosome 3 .
this map position be far refine use additional affect animal to an approximately 1.5 - mb region delineate by the eif5a2 locus and microsatellite marker d3mit178 .
direct sequence analysis of coding region within this interval identify an a2288t transversion in the evi1 locus , cause a nonconservative asn763ile change in the second of the two zinc - finger domain in this protein ( figure 1a and 1b ) .
no other sequence change be identify in any other coding sequence within the minimal nonrecombinant region contain the mutation .
figure 1
the evi1 gene be mutate in junbo mouse
( a ) sequence analysis of the evi1 locus in balb / c , c3h / hen , jbo / + adult , and jbo / jbo embryonic dna .
an a2318t transversion be detect in jbo / + and jbo / jbo mutant that be not present in either parental substrains .
( b ) schematic of the evi1 peptide .
ten zinc finger motif be cluster into two dna - bind domain , zf1 and zf2 .
evi1 contain a proline - rich repressor domain between the two set of zinc finger and a highly acidic domain at the c - terminus .
expand peptide sequence across the ninth zinc finger motif show the high degree of conservation of this region between orthologous protein from different specie : mu musculus ( p14404 ) , rattus norvegicus ( ensrnog00000012645 ) , homo sapien ( q03112 ) , danio rerio ( ensdarp00000008993 ) , fugu rubrides ( ensdarp00000008993 ) , drosophila melanogaster ( cg31753 ) , caenorhabditis elegans ( r53.3a ) .
contact residue be highlight in yellow , the position of the junbo mutation be highlight in red .
( c ) extra digit be see on the forelimb of both heterozygote and homozygote mouse e18.5 ( white arrow ) .
in heterozygote , ( jbo / + , middle panel ) an extra digit be observe on either forelimb .
the homozygote , ( jbo / jbo , right panel ) have extra digit on both forelimb .
the anterior digit be often reduce in size in the homozygote limb ( red arrow ) .
wild - type mouse , left panel .
a knockout allele of evi1 have be produce , evi1tm1mmor [ 14 ] .
evi1tm1mmor mouse carry a target deletion result in an isoform - specific null for the long evi1 transcript , while the δ324 ( short ) isoform [ 15 , 16 ] remain unaltered .
this isoform lack the final two zinc - finger motif from the first ( n - terminal ) dna - bind domain and consequently be predict to exhibit altered binding ability .
characterization of heterozygote mouse carry this target mutant fail to uncover any phenotype , while homozygote show prenatal lethality from presumptive cardiac failure [ 14 ] .
in addition , these embryo display widespread hypocellularity , most markedly of the cortical mesenchyme , retard development of the first and second branchial arch , and severely reduce vasculature of the yolk sac .
to confirm that the a2318t alteration identify in evi1 be responsible for the junbo phenotype , we undertake a complementation screen between jbo / + and evi1tm1mmor / + animal .
81 live birth be produce from cross of jbo / + and evi1tm1mmor / + mouse and all be genotyped .
none of the progeny coinherited the evi1tm1mmor and the jbo mutation .
however , the other expected genotype be recover — jbo / + ( 38 % ) , evi1tm1mmor / + ( 28 % ) , + / + ( 33 % ) — confirm the allelism of the knockout and junbo mutant .
we establish intercrosses between jbo / + animal use in vitro fertilization and implantation into wild - type female a jbo / + female undergo repeat spontaneous abortion .
at 10.5 day postcoitum ( dpc ) , 17 % of homozygote mouse have small hind limb , a large pericardial sac , and a malformed forebrain , feature demonstrate by the knockout [ 14 ] .
however , many homozygote be score a normal in appearance at this and late stage and proceed to die between e18.5 and birth , though homozygote be of comparable body size to wild - type littermates .
it appear that though some homozygote embryo may die at 10.5 dpc , others continue to develop unhindered when carry by a wild - type mother .
the only other phenotypic feature detect in jbo / + mouse be an extra digit on one forelimb .
jbo / jbo mouse have extra digit on both forelimb ( see figure 1c ) .
pathology phenotyping of the junbo mutant
to determine the cause of the deafness phenotype in junbo , we perform an initial examination of deaf adult animal and embryonic skeletal preparation ( 15.5 dpc – 18.5 dpc ) .
this reveal no gross morphological defect of the inner ear and ossicular chain or ossification of the temporal bone and tympanic ring in jbo / + animal .
dissection of the bulla of seven jbo / + mouse and four + / + mouse ( > 130 dab ) reveal that the middle ear cavity ( mec ) of mutant mouse be fill with exudate , indicative of om .
x-ray analysis reveal that there be no consistent abnormality of bulla shape associate with om in jbo / + mouse .
examination of seven jbo / + mouse ( 14 bulla , > 180 dab ) reveal that 6 jbo / + mouse bulla have a normal shape and demonstrate radio opacity , indicate the presence of an effusion in the middle ear , whereas in six jbo / + mouse , bulla be misshapen and also have an effusion present ( demonstrate by radio opacity ) .
although x-ray imaging be a less sensitive mean of diagnose om than histology , two jbo / + mouse bulla do not demonstrate a radio opacity reflect the possibility of resolution of a small number of junbo mouse at advance age ( see below ) .
control ear ( two wild - type mouse , four bulla ) be clear of effusion and present with a normal bulla shape .
we conclude that the presence of abnormally shape bulla in the junbo mutant be not necessary for the development of an effusion .
we therefore proceed to study the pathology of the om in the postnatal period , at wean , and in the adult , first in conventionally house mouse of relatively low microbiological status and then in specific pathogen - free ( spf ) mouse .
in conventionally house mouse we find no evidence of inflammation of the embryonic connective tissue or exudation into the mec in jbo / + or wild - type litter mate at 5 dab .
by 13 dab the mec be more fully form and 100 % of the jbo / + mouse and ~ 33 % wild - type mouse have acute om ( figure 2a – 2d ) .
however , jbo / + mouse have suppurative exudate in both the mecs , while wild - type mouse have unilateral om , or serous exudation in one ear and suppurative exudation in the contralateral ear .
typical acute inflammatory change in the mec mucoperiosteum include edematous polyp ( figure 2e , which may represent unresorbed embryonic connective tissue [ 17 ] ) and / or bulge sub-epithelial bulla fill with serous fluid , stromal edema , widely patent capillary , and lymphatics , with variable number of infiltrate neutrophil leukocyte .
the epithelial covering be form by small basal cell or ciliated columnar cell ( figure 2f and 2g ) .
a second , mild type of om occur in a further ~ 27 % of wild - type mouse consist of only focal mucoperiosteal aggregation of neutrophil leucocyte with or without a light neutrophil leukocyte mec exudation ( unpublished data ) ; ~ 40 % wild - type mouse have no evidence of om at this age .
importantly , om appear at this stage a part of a more generalize respiratory tract inflammation comprise suppurative rhinitis ( figure 2h ) and nasopharyngitis , and multifocal mild alveolitis / interstitial pneumonia with eosinophil leukocyte in perivascular cuff ( figure 3a and 3b ) but without evidence of intralesional bacteria or viral inclusion .
there be no significant histological lesion in intestine , liver , pancreas , kidney , heart , thymus , and spleen .
figure 2
histology of middle ear and nose in wild - type and junbo mutant mouse
image ( a – h ) be from 13 - d - old postnatal mouse and be give with their original magnification ( a ) jbo / + dorsal section of mec partly fill with exudate × 40 , ( b ) + / + normal middle ear temporal bone cover with thin mucoperiosteum ( arrowhead ) × 400 , ( c ) + / + inflamed middle ear with thicken mucoperiosteum with neutrophil leukocyte infiltrates and neutrophil - rich exudate in the mec × 400 , ( d ) jbo / + middle ear with more severe suppurative exudation into the mec × 400 , ( e ) jbo / + inflamed edematous polyp ( arrowhead ) of un-resorbed embryonic middle ear connective tissue , tympanic membrane × 100 , ( f ) jbo / + mec line by ciliated columnar cell ( arrowhead ) × 600 ( g ) jbo / + mec line by basal cell ( arrowhead ) × 600 , ( h ) jbo / + suppurative rhinitis : nasal cavity with suppurative exudate , nasal septum with inflamed nasal mucosa × 200 .
image ( i – l ) be of adult ( 180 - d ) jbo / + middle ear with chronic suppurative om ; change include ( i ) fibrous polyp ( arrowhead ) × 200 , ( j ) hyperplasia of ciliated epithelial cell ( arrowhead ) and fibrosis of mucoperiosteum stroma × 400 , and ( k ) fibrous thickening of the tympanic membrane , out ear canal × 400 compare with ( l ) normal + / + tympanic membrane , out ear canal × 400 .
e , exudate ; mp , mucoperiosteum ; nc , nasal cavity ; nm , nasal mucosa ; n , nasal septum ; oec , out ear canal ; tb , temporal bone ; tm , tympanic membrane
figure 3
histology of the lung and middle ear exudate in junbo mouse
( a ) 13 - d postnatal jbo / + lung with perivascular and peribronchiolar cuff contain sirius red positive eosinophil leukocyte ( arrowhead ) , bronchiole , pulmonary artery × 400 , ( b ) focal eosiniphilic alveolitis ( arrowhead ) and thicken alveolar septae ( open arrowhead ) with eosinophil - rich infiltrates .
( c ) 21 - d postnatal jbo / + mec pu with colony of gram positive cocci × 600 .
b , bronchiole ; pa , pulmonary artery
any postnatal om have resolve in wild - type mouse by wean ( 0 % incidence at 21 dab ) and om be exceptional in adult ( 3 % incidence ) .
in contrast , om be present in 100 % of jbo / + mouse at wean and occur in 94 % of adult jbo / + mouse 29 dab to > 180 dab .
suppurative rhinitis be still present in some jbo / + mouse examine , but in two the eosinophilic pneumonia be absent or minimal .
large number of gram positive cocci be present in om exudate at day 21 in ~ 70 % of case ( figure 3c ) , suggest nasopharyngeal staphylococcal and streptococcal flora may play a role in progression of om , if not it initiation in jbo / + mouse .
there be no evidence of significant proliferation of mucous cell or periodic acid - schiff - positive mucus in the mec .
adult jbo / + mouse > 29 dab develop bilateral chronic suppurative om .
chronic middle ear effusion contain variable number and proportion of viable and necrotic neutrophil leukocyte and foamy macrophage ; bacteria be infrequently present and there be small number of multinucleate macrophage , cholesterol cleft , and small amount of birefringent foreign body ( perhaps secondary to perforation of the eardrum ) .
the effusion do not contain significant amount of periodic acid - schiff - positive mucus .
chronic change in inflamed thicken mucoperiosteum include formation of multiple polyp ( figure 2i ) cover by low cuboidal cell or hyperplastic ciliated columnar cell and scatter mucous cell ( figure 2j ) .
the mucoperiosteal stroma have variable degree of fibrosis , neutrophil leukocyte infiltration , scattered mast cell , lymphoplasmacytic infiltrates , and occasional lymphoid nodule .
the eustachian tube be patent and can contain exudate , and the epithelial lining can have elevate number of mucous cell and intra-epithelial leukocyte .
fibrous thickening of the eardrum ( tympanosclerosis ) be common ( figure 2k and 2l ) .
om be often associate with perforation of the eardrum , possibly provide drainage to account for apparent resolution of a few case : ( 6 % ) of om in the old age group of jbo / + mouse ( > 180 dab ) .
the junbo colony have subsequently be re-derived by embryo transfer into new high - health status facility ( mary lyon centre , harwell ) .
mouse be house in individually ventilate cage , and screening show all felasa - list pathogen ( see material and method ) have be exclude ; 75 cage air change / h reduce respiratory irritant such a ammonia to < 3 ppm .
in spf condition , om in jbo / + mouse be relatively mild at early time point and be not associate with rhinitis .
typically at 13 dab there be small number of inflammatory cell in the mucoperiosteum and sometimes , light mec effusion .
by 20 – 22 dab and 28 dab , 4 % jbo / + mouse have bilateral om , 54 % unilateral om , and 42 % have very mild or no om .
however , by 54 dab , jbo / + mouse ( 100 % ) have om , but in 10 % of case this be unilateral .
om do not occur in pre-weaned wild - type mouse and in only 3 % ( a single case in a 22 - dab mouse ) of old wild - type mouse .
comprehensive pathology phenotyping fail to show a consistent pattern of significant organ pathology outside of the middle ear in adult jbo / + mouse .
specifically there be no evidence of opportunistic infection in site such a skin , lung , urogenital , or gastrointestinal system that might be a sign of immune deficiency ( see below ) .
in summary , the microbiological status of the mouse and / or air quality affect onset of om , and under “ dirty ” conventional condition even wild - type mouse can develop om in the postnatal period a part of upper respiratory tract disease ; however , this resolve in wild - type mouse by wean .
in conventionally house and spf jbo / + mouse , om emerge a a chronic condition .
immunology and facs analysis of spf wild - type and junbo mouse
there be no significant difference in the antibody response of jbo / + and wild - type control mouse to immunization with t - dependent ( igg1 and igg2a to keyhole limpet hemocyanin ) and t - independent ( iggm and igg3 to pneumococcal polysaccharide type 3 ) antigen ( table s1 ) .
facs analysis of blood neutrophil identify by the cell surface marker gr - 1 and mac - 1 do not reveal significant difference between level of immature , mature cell form , and total circulate blood neutrophil in jbo / + and wild - type mouse at either 20 – 22 dab or 49 – 58 dab .
however , there be a significantly low ( p = 0.003 ) ratio of immature form in the circulate neutrophil pool in 20 – 22 dab jbo / + mouse , but not in 54 – 58 dab jbo / + mouse ( table 1 ) .
table 1
facs analysis of the proportion of granulocyte in blood of wild - type and junbo mouse
expression of evi1 in wild - type and junbo mouse
we proceed to investigate the expression of evi1 in both embryonic whole - body tissue ( e9.5 and at eight interval through to birth ) and postnatal middle ear tissue ( 13 dab , 21 dab ) in order to relate the underlie mutation to the junbo phenotype .
we examine expression in wild - type and jbo / + mouse , but at no time point do we identify any significant difference in expression pattern , up to and include birth , from those describe [ 14 , 18 ] .
however , in postnatal head tissue , we now find that evi1 be express in nucleus of myeloid cell in bone marrow , neutrophil leukocyte , fibroblast , and basal epithelial cell in the inflamed middle ear lining ( figure 4 ) , and that pattern of expression be similar in jbo / + and wild - type mouse .
figure 4
evi1 protein immunostaining in 13 - d - old jbo / + and wild - type mouse with acute om
( a ) jbo / + positive myeloid cell in temporal bone marrow × 600 .
note chondrocytes and osteocyte be also strongly positive .
( b ) jbo / + mucoperiosteum have positive neutrophil leukocyte , fibroblast , and basal epithelial cell nucleus × 600 .
( c ) + / + similar pattern of staining in bone marrow × 600 and ( d ) + / + inflamed mucoperiosteum × 600 .
b , basal epithelial cell nucleus ; c , chrondrocyte ; f , fibroblast ; mc , myeloid cell ; n , neutrophil leukocyte ; o , osteocyte
om phenotype of the evi1tm1mmor / + mouse
om be not a prominent feature in evi1tm1mmor / + mouse .
only one of 12 evi1tm1mmor / + mouse > 68 dab have om , and in this single case it be unilateral .
om be not present in 15 wild - type littermates .
the absence of om in evi1tm1mmor / + mouse , couple with the presence of extra digit in jbo / + and jbo / jbo mouse , suggest that the junbo mutation may have gain - of - function effect .
however , the genetic background of evi1tm1mmor / + mouse differ from jbo / + and jbo / jbo mouse ( see material and method ) .
in addition , the evi1tm1mmor mutation be an isoform - specific null .
it be therefore difficult to reach definitive conclusion a to the nature of the junbo mutation ( see discussion ) .
discussion
a mutation in the evi1 transcription factor underlie the development of a chronic suppurative om in the junbo mutant .
genetic mechanism appear to interact with microbiological status and environmental condition , such that spf jbo / + mouse with improve air quality have mild early om .
gnotobiotic study be plan to investigate the role of nasopharyngeal staphylococcus and streptococcus spp. commensal in om pathogenesis .
the absence of multi-systemic inflammation and opportunistic infection at other site , and the normal t - dependent and t - independent immune response in jbo / + mouse , argue against an overt immune deficiency be responsible for om .
the evi1 locus be initially identify a a common site of retroviral integration underlie susceptibility to myeloid tumor in the akxd mouse recombinant inbred strain [ 19 , 20 ] .
transcriptional activation of the evi1 locus by translocation and inversion lead to myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome in human [ 21 ] .
this locus encode a 145 - kda nuclear transcription factor with two distinct zinc - finger domain compose of seven and three zinc - finger motif , respectively [ 22 ] .
each zinc - finger domain have be show to bind specific target consensus dna sequence , and additional proline - rich and highly acidic domain locate within the protein have be demonstrate to be capable of repress or activate target promoter activity , respectively [ 21 – 24 ] .
evi1 have also be show to be capable of repress the tgf - β signaling pathway through direct binding of smad3 mediate by the first zinc - finger domain , suggest a functional role in the control of cell development and proliferation [ 25 ] .
in addition , cell line assay have demonstrate a role for evi1 in the transcriptional control of c - fo and the ap - 1 proliferative pathway through interaction of the second zinc - finger domain [ 26 ] .
the junbo mutation result in a nonconservative asn763ile change in the second of these three zinc - finger .
previous in vitro site - directed mutagenesis study of the contact residue within these three zinc - finger uncover a complete loss of dna - binding ability follow any residue change [ 23 ] .
the junbo asn763ile alteration be within three amino acid of a contact residue , and the mutate amino acid contribute to the putative alpha helix of the cys2his2 structure .
while it seem likely that the junbo mutation will disturb the function of the second zinc - finger domain , it be unclear whether or not there be effect on the role of the first zinc - finger domain that be involve in tgf - β signaling .
it be interesting to note that om be not part of the phenotype of evi1tm1mmor / + mouse .
however , the evi1tm1mmor allele result in an isoform - specific allele for the long evi1 transcript while the δ324 short isoform be unaffected .
in addition , the evi1tm1mmor knockout be establish in e - d3 cell with chimaera subsequently mat to cf - 1 mouse [ 14 ] .
both the presence of the short isoform and the dissimilar genetic background between evi1tm1mmor / + mouse and jbo / + mouse may contribute to the difference in the expressivity of the om phenotype .
alternatively , the junbo mutation may lead to gain - of - function effect .
however , it be not possible at this stage to distinguish between these possibility .
a mutation in the evi1 transcription factor may give rise to om by more than one mechanism , give that it be express in a number of different cell type in the middle ear .
one mechanism arise from our observation that evi1 be express in neutrophil leukocyte during om development .
evi1 have multiple function relate to hematopoietic differentiation and development of myeloid leukemia [ 27 – 30 ] .
one putative target gene for evi1 in neutrophil leukocyte be the inositol triphosphate type 2 receptor gene ( itpr2 ) that be require for functional regulation of neutrophil leukocyte maturation via f - met - leu - phe receptor signaling in response to bacterial protein [ 31 ] .
our facs analysis of circulate neutrophil at two time point , when om first appear and when chronic suppurative om be well establish , indicate that localize inflammation in the middle ear in jbo / + mouse do not result in significant neutrophilia .
neutrophil be apparently release from hematopoietic tissue at comparable level in jbo / + and wild - type mouse and there be no detectable block in neutrophil development in jbo / + mouse .
the ratio of immature neutrophil in the circulate pool be no high ; indeed , it be reduce in recently wean mouse when ~ 60 % have acute om .
in old jbo / + mouse with fully penetrant chronic suppurative om , immature and mature neutrophil ratio be not significantly different from wild - type mouse .
a variety of in vitro study have highlight the role of the tgfβ / smad pathway on mucin expression and thus underline the potential importance of this signaling pathway in om [ 32 ] .
a loss of evi1 function could affect tgfβ / smad signaling pathway .
there be two in vitro study that suggest that evi1 mutation could affect mucin expression that might underlie predisoposition to om .
firstly , nontypeable haemophilus influenzae ( nthi ) , a known bacterial pathogen involve in human om , activate tgfβ receptor - smad3 / 4 signaling that together with tlr2 - myd88 - tak1 - nik - ikkβ / γ - iκbα - dependent activation of nf - κb be know to mediate nthi - induce muc2 mucin transcription [ 33 ] .
evi1 loss - of - function mutation might lead to a de-repression of the tgfβ / smad pathway and an upregulation of muc2 expression lead to an enhancement of effusive process a a contributor to om .
alternatively , it have also be show that nthi upregulates muc5ac mucin production via activation of the tlr2 - myd88 - dependant p38 pathway [ 34 ] .
however , the activation of tgfβ / smad signaling by nthi also lead to down - regulation of p38 activity by induce mapk phosphatase - 1 and suppress muc5ac mucin induction .
thus , in this case loss of evi1 function and de-repression of the tgfβ / smad pathway would presumably lead to increase suppression of muc5ac mucin induction that may reduce mucociliary defense in suppurative om .
importantly , the identification of the junbo mutation now provide in vivo evidence to support the role of these signaling pathway in om .
it will be interesting to explore far the molecular phenotype of the junbo mutant and to examine whether disregulation of mucin expression be a contribute factor in the development of om .
additional level of complexity of evi1 function relevant to om pathogenesis may result from the first ( n - terminal ) zinc - finger domain bind to a number of putative target gene gadd45g , gata2 , zfpm2 / fog2 , skil ( snon ) , klf5 ( bteb2 ) , dcn , and map3k14 ( nik ) [ 35 ] .
for instance , evi1 regulation of nik could act in the tlr2 - myd88 - tak1 - nik - ikkβ / γ - iκbα - dependent activation of nf - κb pathway to mediate nthi - induce muc2 mucin transcription a describe above ; and also in the pro inflammatory cytokine il - 1 signaling pathway il - 1r1 - myd88 - irak - traf6 - tak1 - nik - ikk - nf - κb / iκb [ 36 ] .
in conclusion , the junbo mutant provide an important genetic disease model of om ; particularly because it share important feature with the chronic human condition [ 7 ] .
inflammatory disease be restricted to the middle ear and be not a consequence of overt immune deficiency .
om arise spontaneously in the postnatal period , develop into chronic suppurative om with otorrhea , with the early severity and age of onset dependent on microbiological status and / or air quality .
we have show that a mutation at the evi1 locus underlie the susceptibility and persistence of om .
our observation underline the role of evi1 in mucin gene regulation a a possible contributor to om .
in this regard , the evi1 gene and associate pathway member can be consider important candidate for examine the genetic basis for susceptibility to om in the human population .
material and method
mouse and deafness screening .
the founder mouse carry the junbo mutation be generate in a large - scale enu mutagenesis program at harwell , united kingdom [ 9 ] .
male balb / c mouse be mutagenized and mat to normal c3h / hen female , and the offspring be screen for a variety of defect , include deafness and vestibular dysfunction .
the jbo founder be identify because of a lack of a preyer reflex when present with a calibrate 20 khz 90 db spl tone burst .
for analysis of the phenotype , the colony be maintain on a c3h / hen background in accordance with home office regulation .
microbiological status of the mouse .
junbo mouse be originally derive in a conventional facility .
sentinel mouse from this colony be seropositive for the felasa - [ 37 ] list viral agent mhv ( judge by histology to be enteropathic strain ) , adenovirus ii , and tmev , none of which be primary respiratory pathogen [ 38 ] .
intestinal flagellate , pinworm , and the opportunist respiratory pathogen pasteurella pneumotropica be also common isolates .
a number of pathogen know to cause respiratory disease and / or om in the mouse such a pneumonia virus , sendai virus , mycoplasma pulmonis , streptococcus pneumoniae , and pseudomonas aeruginosa have not be find over many year in the sentinel screen .
non-felasa - list bacteria isolate from the nasopharynx of sentinel mouse include staphylococcus spp. , staphylococcus aureus , alpha - haemolytic streptococci , and other streptococcus spp .
junbo mouse be now house in a high - health - status spf unit in which all felasa - list pathogen have be exclude .
non-felasa nasopharyngeal flora remain the same .
genetic cross and mapping .
the founder c3henbalb / cenuf1 - jbo / + mouse be maintain by repeat backcross to c3h / hen .
mutant progeny be identify by the lack of a preyer reflex .
41 dna be initially pool from affect individual and a genome scan be carry out a describe [ 9 , 13 ] .
a high - resolution genetic map be construct use 242 affected progeny n4 and n5 backcross progeny use publish microsatellite marker d3mit90 , d3mit328 , d3mit92 , d3mit203 , d3mit55 , d3mit178 , d3mit151 , d3mit273 , d3mit180 , d3mit239 , d3mit21 , d3mit224 , d3mit182 , d3mit119 , d3mit241 , and d3mit22 .
the genetic map across the jbo locus be construct by minimize the number of recombination event across the region .
the evi1tm1mmor mutation be generate in d3 e cell with subsequent mating to cf - 1 mouse [ 14 ] .
evi1tm1mmor / + mouse be mat to c3h / hen mouse before crossing to jbo / + mouse for complementation testing .
for phenotypic analysis evi1tm1mmor / + mouse be also mat to c3h / hen mouse and f1 heterozygous mutant progeny along with wild - type littermate control age to appropriate time point .
pathology , histology , and x-ray analysis .
the onset and time course of development of the middle ear disease be examine by histology in conventionally house postnatal mouse 4 – 5 dab ( five jbo / + , two + / + ) ; postnatal 13 dab ( 13 jbo / + , 16 + / + ) ; at wean 21 dab ( seven jbo / + , 17 + / + ) ; and in adult mouse 29 dab ( five jbo / + , 11 + / + ) , 44 dab ( six jbo / + , eight + / + ) , 180 dab ( seven jbo / + , nine + / + ) , and 180 – 360 dab ( six jbo / + , three + / + ) .
representative mouse from one to three litter be examine at each time point .
in a second study to assess the om phenotype under spf condition , junbo mouse be sample from an embryo re-derived colony that be house in individually ventilate cage .
the cohort be a follow : 5 dab ( four jbo / + , nine + / + ) , 13 dab ( 11 jbo / + , 19 + / + ) , 20 – 22 dab , 28 dab ( 24 jbo / + , 17 + / + ) , 49 – 58 dab ( 20 jbo / + , 18 + / + ) , and 85 – 115 dab ( 19 jbo / + ) .
12 conventionally house 68 - dab evi1tm1mmor / + mouse and 15 same - age wild - type littermates be also examine for om .
tissue be fix 24 – 48 h in 10 % neutral buffer formalin ( nbf ) and embed in paraffin wax .
head and bone be decalcify 24 – 48 h with immunocal ( decal corporation , tallman , new york , united state ) .
4 - μm dorsal plane section of decalcify middle ear be stain with haemotoxylin and eosin ( h & e ) .
in 13 - and 21 - dab mouse with om , transverse section of the nasal turbinate , dorsal plane section of the oropharynx , lung , liver , kidney , heart , spleen , intestine , pancreas , and liver be examine by histology .
section of middle ear , snout , and lung from om case be examine for bacteria use gram stain and sirius red for eosinophil leukocyte .
to assess the possibility of opportunistic infection at other body site , a general pathology screen be perform on four 28 - dab and seven 56 - dab spf jbo / + mouse .
in addition , a more extensive whole - body pathology analysis of 25 + tissue follow empress necropsy sop [ 39 ] be perform on four female and three male 180 - dab jbo / + mouse ; five female and four male wild - type litter mate be use a control .
for x-ray analysis , head be skin and the brain and mandible remove , and then the skull be fix in 10 % nbf .
after the dorsoventral view be take , the head be bisect midsagittally and lateromedial view take .
image be take on a mx - 20 faxitron x-ray machine ( faxitron x-ray corporation , wheeling , illinois , united state ) at 26 kv and 0.3 ma with an exposure time of 3 s .
immunohistochemistry .
whole embryo ( e9.5 , e10.5 , e11.5 , e12.5 , e13.5 , e16.5 , and e18.5 ) and adult head ( 13 dab and 21 dab ) from wild - type and jbo / + mouse be use for immunolabelling .
3 - μm wax section be de-paraffinised in xylene substitute and rehydrated through grade ethanol solution .
endogenous peroxidase activity be quench with 3 % hydrogen peroxide in isopropanol .
the section be microwave in 10 mm citrate buffer ( ph6.0 ) and rinse with phosphate - buffer saline at room temperature .
the immunostaining be perform use a dako ( glostrup , denmark ) autostainer at room temperature .
to inhibit the non-specific endogenous biotin stain the dako biotin blocking system be use .
a block solution of 10 % donkey serum ( serotec ) be use for 1 h .
goat polyclonal antibody raise against the carboxy terminus of human evi1 be use in concentration 1 : 100 ( santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , california , united state ) for 1 h .
biotinylated donkey anti-goat antibody ( santa cruz biotechnology ) and chemmate detection kit ( dako ) be use to develop the specific evi - 1 signal .
negative control section be incubate in donkey serum and process identically .
the slide be counterstained with haematoxylin .
skeletal preparation .
embryo be fix in 95 % ethanol and process through a standard alcian blue and alizarin red bone / cartilage staining procedure .
immunology and facs analysis in spf mouse .
the t - dependent arm of the immune system be assess by immunization with keyhole limpet hemocycanin and measurement of igg1 and igg2a , and the t - independent arm by immunization with pneumococcal polysaccharide type 3 and measurement of iggm and igg3 in 42 – 56 - dab spf mouse ( ten jbo / + , ten + / + ) [ 40 ] .
for facs analysis whole blood be collect in lithium heparin tube from the jugular vein after overdose mouse with barbiturate - administer ip .
spf mouse be assess at 20 – 22 dab ( 17 jbo / + , 20 + / + ) and 49 – 58 dab ( 14 jbo / + , 14 + / + ) .
facs analysis of granulocyte be perform after label cell with r - pe - label gr - 1 and fitc - label mac - 1 marker .
the wilcoxon sum - of - rank test be use to test for statistical difference between jbo / + and + / + post-bleed antibody titer and granulocyte parameter .
support information
table s1
t - dependent and t - independent response in immune - challenge wild - type and junbo mouse
( 35 kb doc )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank dr. emma coghill for advice on use the amera software and stuart townsend for assistance with facs analysis .
we also thank the histology and pathology team at harwell , united kingdom for processing of specimen .
abbreviation
dab - day after birth
dpc - day postcoitum
enu - n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea
mec - middle ear cavity
nthi - nontypeable haemophilus influenzae
om - otitis medium
spf - specific pathogen - free
footnote
compete interest .
part of this work be fund by glaxosmith - kline .
author contribution .
np , rehh , ht , nd , ajh , mtc , and sdmb conceive and design the experiment .
np , rehh , ht , htt , db , sm , zl , fm , mf , pg , amw , sp , ib , tah , and mtc perform the experiment .
np , rehh , ht , htt , db , sm , zl , fm , nd , and mtc analyze the data .
mf , pg , amw , and sp contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
np , rehh , mtc , and sdmb write the paper .
funding .
this work be support by the medical research council , united kingdom .
hilda tateossian be support by the eumorphia program ( european commission contract qpg2 - ct - 2002 – 00930 ) .
bmp receptor signaling be require for postnatal maintenance of articular cartilage
abstract
articular cartilage play an essential role in health and mobility , but be frequently damage or lose in million of people that develop arthritis .
the molecular mechanism that create and maintain this thin layer of cartilage that cover the surface of bone in joint region be poorly understand , in part because tool to manipulate gene expression specifically in this tissue have not be available .
here we use regulatory information from the mouse gdf5 gene ( a bone morphogenetic protein [ bmp ] family member ) to develop new mouse line that can be use to either activate or inactivate gene specifically in develop joint .
expression of cre recombinase from gdf5 bacterial artificial chromosome clone lead to specific activation or inactivation of floxed target gene in develop joint , include early joint interzones , adult articular cartilage , and the joint capsule .
we have use this system to test the role of bmp receptor signaling in joint development .
mouse with null mutation in bmpr1a be know to die early in embryogenesis with multiple defect .
however , combine a floxed bmpr1a allele with the gdf5 - cre driver bypass this embryonic lethality , and lead to birth and postnatal development of mouse miss the bmpr1a gene in articular region .
most joint in the body form normally in the absence of bmpr1a receptor function .
however , articular cartilage within the joint gradually wear away in receptor - deficient mouse after birth in a process resemble human osteoarthritis .
gdf5 - cre mouse provide a general system that can be use to test the role of gene in articular region .
bmp receptor signaling be require not only for early development and creation of multiple tissue , but also for ongoing maintenance of articular cartilage after birth .
genetic variation in the strength of bmp receptor signaling may be an important risk factor in human osteoarthritis , and treatment that mimic or augment bmp receptor signaling should be investigate a a possible therapeutic strategy for maintain the health of joint lining .
introduction
thin layer of articular cartilage line the bone of synovial joint and provide a smooth , wear - resistant structure that reduce friction and absorb impact force ( brandt et al. 1998 ) .
loss or damage to articular cartilage be a hallmark of arthritic disease and be one of the most common reason that both young and old adult seek medical care .
million of people be afflicted with arthritis , and it ultimately affect more than half of people over the age of 65 ( badley 1995 ; yelin and callahan 1995 ) .
a good understanding of the molecular mechanism that create and maintain articular cartilage be crucial for discover the cause of joint disorder and provide useful medical treatment .
joint formation begin during embryogenesis , when stripe of high cell density call interzones form across develop skeletal precursor ( haines 1947 ) .
program cell death occur within the interzone , and a three - layer interzone form that have two layer of high cell density flank a region of low cell density .
non-joint precursor of the skeleton typically develop into cartilage , which hypertrophy and be replace by bone .
however , cell within the high - density layer of the interzone be exclude from this process and develop into the permanent layer of articular cartilage find in the mature joint ( mitrovic 1978 ) .
study over the last 10 y have begin to elucidate some of the signaling pathway that contribute to the early stage of joint formation .
wnt14 be express in stripe at the site where joint will form , and it be capable of induce expression of other joint marker when misexpressed at new location in the limb ( hartmann and tabin 2001 ) .
several member of the bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) family of secrete signaling molecule be also express in stripe at site where joint will form , include those encode by the gene gdf5 , gdf6 , gdf7 , bmp2 , and bmp4 ( storm and kingsley 1996 ; wolfman et al. 1997 ; francis - west et al. 1999 ; settle et al. 2003 ) .
of these , gdf5 expression be most strikingly limit to region where joint will develop and be one of the early know marker of joint formation .
mutation in either gdf5 or the closely related gdf6 gene also block formation of joint at specific location , provide strong evidence that these molecule be essential for the joint formation process ( storm et al. 1994 ; settle et al. 2003 ) .
however , mutation in bmp2 or bmp4 cause early embryonic lethality , make it difficult to test their role in joint formation ( winnier et al. 1995 ; zhang and bradley 1996 ) .
much less be know about how signaling pathway function during the subsequent maturation and maintenance of adult joint structure .
importantly , bmp signaling component be present in adult articular cartilage , suggest that they may function during the late development or maintenance of this critical structure ( erlacher et al. 1998 ; chubinskaya et al. 2000 ; muehleman et al. 2002 ; bau et al. 2002 ; bobacz et al. 2003 ) .
bmps bind tetrameric complex of two type i and two type ii transmembrane serine - threonine kinase receptor .
upon bmp binding , these complex transduce a signal by phosphorylating member of the smad family of transcription factor ( massague 1996 ) .
recent experiment have implicate two different bmp type i receptor in skeletal patterning , bmpr1a and bmpr1b .
both receptor can bind bmp2 , bmp4 , and gdf5 , although gdf5 show high affinity for bmpr1b ( koenig et al. 1994 ; ten dijke et al. 1994 ; yamaji et al. 1994 ; nishitoh et al. 1996 ; chalaux et al. 1998 ) .
both receptor be also express in dynamic pattern during normal development .
in limb , bmpr1a expression become restricted to joint interzones , perichondrium , periarticular cartilage , hypertrophic chondrocytes , and interdigital limb mesenchyme .
in comparison , bmpr1b expression be see primarily in condense precartilaginous mesenchymal cell , region flank joint interzones , perichondrium , and periarticular cartilage ( dewulf et al. 1995 ; mishina et al. 1995 ; zou et al. 1997 ; baur et al. 2000 ) .
null mutation in the bmpr1b gene produce viable mouse with defect in bone and joint formation that closely resemble those see in mouse miss gdf5 ( storm and kingsley 1996 ; baur et al. 2000 ; yi et al. 2000 ) .
null mutation in bmpr1a cause early embryonic lethality , with defect in gastrulation similar to those see in mouse with mutation in bmp4 ( mishina et al. 1995 ; winnier et al. 1995 ) .
recent study with floxed allele suggest that bmpr1a be also require for many late developmental event , but it role in bone and joint formation have not yet be test ( mishina 2003 ) .
a genetic system for activate or inactivate gene specifically in joint tissue would be particularly useful for further study of joint formation and maintenance .
here we take advantage of the tissue - specific expression pattern of the gdf5 gene to engineer a cre / loxp system ( nagy 2000 ) , gdf5 - cre , that can be use to remove or ectopically express gene in joint .
test with reporter mouse show that this system be capable of modify gene in all of the structure of the mature synovial joint , include the ligament of the joint capsule , the synovial membrane , and the articular cartilage .
gdf5 - cre recombination bypass the early embryonic lethality of null mutation in bmpr1a , and show that this receptor be require for early joint formation at some location and for initiation of program cell death in web between digit .
interestingly , bmpr1a be also require for postnatal maintenance of articular cartilage throughout most of the skeleton .
in gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp mouse , articular cartilage initially form normally , but subsequently lose expression of several key cartilage marker after birth .
it ultimately fibrillate and degenerate , result in severe osteoarthritis and loss of mobility .
these experiment suggest that bmp signaling be require for normal maintenance of postnatal articular cartilage , and that modulation of the bmp signaling pathway may play an important role in joint disease .
result
genetic system for test the function of gene in joint development
to generate a general system capable of specifically test gene for function in skeletal joint development , we engineer transgenic mouse to express cre recombinase in develop joint ( figure 1 ) .
gdf5 be a gene strongly express in stripe across develop skeletal element during embryonic joint formation .
a bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac ) contain the gdf5 locus be modify by homologous recombination in bacteria to insert a cassette encode cre - internal ribosome entry site ( ire ) - human placental alkaline phosphatase ( hplap ) into the translation start site of gdf5 ( figure 1a ) .
this modify bac be then use to make line of transgenic mouse .
the result gdf5 - cre transgenic mouse be test for transgene expression and cre recombinase activity by cross them to r26r reporter mouse that activate the expression of lacz after cre - mediate removal of transcriptional stop sequence ( soriano 1999 ) .
the result progeny be analyze both for expression of the transgene by assay hplap activity and for recombination of dna by assay lacz activity .
the progeny from all three line show strong lacz expression primarily in joint , and in two of three line hplap expression could also be see in joint region .
interestingly , hplap expression in the gdf5 - cre transgenic gac ( a ) line use for all subsequent breeding experiment be see to precede lacz expression during successive development of joint in the digit ( figure 1c ) ( unpublished data ) .
these experiment clearly demonstrate that the gdf5 - cre transgene express cre recombinase and cause dna recombination in develop joint region .
gac ( a ) mouse be cross with lacz rosa26 cre reporter strain ( r26r ) mouse to analyze the pattern of cre - mediate lacz recombination throughout development .
joint in develop limb begin form in a proximal - distal pattern such that the shoulder joint form prior to the elbow joint .
in addition , three major stage of early joint development have be define by histology a ( 1 ) interzone formation , ( 2 ) three - layer interzone formation , and ( 3 ) cavitation ( mitrovic 1978 ) .
consistent with the proximal - distal pattern of joint development in the limb , lacz activity be see at embryonic day 12.5 ( e12.5 ) in the more proximal joint , include the shoulder and knee ( unpublished data ) .
by e14.5 , lacz expression be typically see in all but the most distal joint of the limb ( figure 1b and 1c ) , but with some variability in both strength and extent of expression from embryo to embryo .
the strongest - stain embryo often have additional staining in fingertip ( not see in the e14.5 embryo in figure 1c , but clearly detectable in the e13.5 embryo show in figure 2 ) .
section through develop joint show that lacz be present in many cell at the interzone stage ( unpublished data ) .
however , expression of lacz in nearly 100 % of joint cell be not achieve until the three - layer interzone stage ( for example , in the knee joint at e14.5 or in any of the phalangeal joint at e16.5 ( unpublished data ) .
within the develop skeleton , cre - mediate expression of lacz remain strikingly specific to joint throughout development .
furthermore , it be see in all the structure of postnatal synovial joint include the articular cartilage , joint capsule , and synovial membrane ( figure 1d and 1e ) ( unpublished data ) .
these pattern be consistent with the well - establish expression of gdf5 in interzone region during embryonic development ( storm and kingsley 1996 ) .
adult expression pattern of the gdf5 gene be not as well characterize , but gdf5 expression have previously be detect in adult articular cartilage use both rt - pcr and immunocytochemistry ( chang et al. 1994 ; erlacher et al. 1998 ; bobacz et al. 2002 ) .
other site besides limb joint also have cre - mediate lacz expression .
start at e13.5 , lacz activity be detect in an anterior and posterior domain of the limb bud ( figure 2c ) .
at e14.5 , lacz activity be detectable in the develop ear pinna , rib , sternum , tissue in the face , and some region of the brain and spinal cord ( figure 1b ) ( unpublished data ) .
at birth , lacz be also express in tendon run along the vertebral column , region of tendon in the wrist and ankle , and some tendon insertion ( figure 1d ) ( unpublished data ) .
by 5 wk of age , lacz be also express in the hair follicle , ear cartilage , some cell in the growth plate of the long bone , and portion of the brain and spinal cord ( unpublished data ) .
surprisingly , 23 of 63 , or 37 % of transgenic mouse analyze also show some degree of wide “ ectopic ” lacz expression , which can extend throughout many different tissue in the animal .
however , sustain expression of the transgene itself , a assay by hplap activity , be still restrict primarily to joint in animal that show evidence of more generalize recombination base on lacz expression ( unpublished data ) .
this suggest that in a fraction of animal , sporadic expression of cre at some time early in development be sufficient to lead to both ectopic recombination and lacz expression .
while the fraction of animal with broad recombination pattern must be track and account for during experiment , these animal offer the potential benefit of reveal additional new function of target gene that could be subsequently study with additional site - specific cre driver .
gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp animal survive to adulthood with ear , webbing , and joint defect
we next use the gdf5 - cre system to test the role of bmp signaling during normal joint development .
gdf5 - cre transgenic mouse be breed to animal carry a conditional floxed allele of the bmpr1a locus ( mishina et al. 2002 ) , usually in the presence of the r26r reporter allele to facilitate simultaneous visualization of cre - mediate recombination pattern ( see typical cross in figure 3 ) .
pcr amplification confirm that a key exon of the bmpr1a gene be delete in mouse that also carry the gdf5 - cre transgene ( unpublished data ) .
previous study have show that the recombined bmpr1afloxp allele mimic a null allele of the bmpr1a locus when transmit through the germline ( mishina et al. 2002 ) .
the gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp conditional knockout mouse be viable and survive to adulthood , show that the gdf5 - cre driver can bypass the early embryonic lethality previously report in animal with a null mutation in the bmpr1a locus ( mishina et al. 1995 ) .
the viable gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp mouse show several phenotype .
first , the conditional knockout mouse have short ear that often lay flat against their head than control ( control 13.1 ± 0.1 mm long , n = 38 ; mutant 11.8 ± 0.2 mm , n = 11 ; p < 0.0001 ) .
bmp signaling be know to be require for growth of the external ear of mouse ( kingsley et al. 1992 ) , and this phenotype likely reflect loss of bmpr1a function in the fraction of ear cell that express the gdf5 - cre transgene .
most mutant mouse also show soft tissue syndactyly or retention of webbing between the first and second digit of their foot , a phenotype that be more frequent and more severe in the forelimb ( 201 of 220 , or 91 % , of forefoot and 109 of 220 , or 50 % , of hindfeet ) .
finally , mutant animal show obvious skeletal change in whole - mount skeletal preparation .
at some site in the ankle , joint seem to be miss entirely , with fusion of bone that would normally be separate .
for example , the second distal tarsal be fuse to the central tarsal bone in every conditional knockout animal examine ( 18 of 18 ) , a phenotype not observe in control ( zero of 18 ) ( figure 3b and 3c ) .
at other location , joint have clearly form but show dramatic loss of staining with the cartilage matrix marker alcian blue ( figure 3b – 3e ) ( unpublished data ) .
normal alcian blue staining be see in non-articular region , such a the cartilaginous growth plate ( figure 3d and 3e , asterisk ) .
these data suggest that bmpr1a function be require for the formation of specific joint in the ankle region and for either generation or maintenance of articular cartilage in most other joint of the limb .
developmental origin of webbing phenotype
interdigital mesenchyme be normally eliminate by apoptosis during embryonic development , a process that can be stimulate by bmp bead , inhibit by noggin , or block by overexpression of dominant - negative bmp receptor ( garcia - martinez et al. 1993 ; yokouchi et al. 1996 ; zou and niswander 1996 ; guha et al. 2002 ) .
limb of gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp mutant embryo show obvious retention of interdigital webbing between the first and second , but not other , digit of e14.5 forelimb ( figure 2a and 2b ) , a pattern that correspond to the presence or absence of webbing see in the adult limb .
they also show excess tissue on the posterior margin of the fifth digit ( figure 2b , arrow ) .
analysis of lacz expression in gdf5 - cre / r26r reporter embryo show that cre - mediate recombination have occur by e13.5 in the metacarpal - phalangeal joint , and in the interdigital region between the first and second , but not other , digit .
in addition , a domain of recombination and expression of lacz be also reproducibly see in the posterior half of the fifth digit ( figure 2c ) .
terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase – mediate deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling ( tunel ) staining of interdigital mesenchyme between the first and second digit ( figure 2d and 2e ) and the fifth digit flank mesenchyme show a decrease number of die cell in the region where excess tissue be retain in the mutant limb .
number of phosphorylated histone h3 - label proliferate cell be also elevate in these region ( figure 2f ) .
most cell find in the web region between the first and second digit at e15.5 strongly express lacz in gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp mutant embryo ( figure 2h ) .
these data suggest that regional loss of bmpr1a receptor signaling block program cell death in interdigital mesenchyme , and that the recombine cell survive and proliferate in the absence of bmpr1a signaling .
failure of early joint formation in ankle region
the bmpr1a gene be express in the interzone region of develop joint at e13.5 ( baur et al. 2000 ) .
in situ hybridization show that the gene be also express in the interzones of ankle joint and prospective articular cartilage region of digit joint at e15.5 ( figure 4 ) .
lacz staining indicate that cre - mediate recombination begin to occur in ankle joint around e14.5 , and be extensive by e15.5 ( figure 4g and 4j ) ( unpublished data ) .
in the ankle joint region that be obviously fuse in postnatal mutant animal , alteration in early joint marker expression could also be see by e15.5 .
at this stage , the gdf5 gene be normally express in stripe that mark the site of joint formation ( figure 4f ) , and the gene for the major collagen protein of cartilage matrix ( col2a1 ) be down - regulate in the interzone region ( figure 4e ) .
in contrast , col2a1 staining extend completely through the joint region between the second and central tarsal of gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp mutant ( figure 4h , black arrow ) , and gdf5 expression be see only a a small notch extend into where the joint should be form ( figure 4i , bracket ) .
these data suggest that the fusion see between ankle bone in postnatal mutant skeleton be the result of incomplete segmentation of skeletal precursor during embryonic development , a defect confine to some location in the ankle .
failure to maintain articular cartilage in other joint
in most joint of bmpr1a conditional knockout mouse , embryonic segmentation of skeletal precursor occur normally .
although gdf5 - cre - mediate recombination be see as early a e13.5 in digit interzone region ( see figure 2c ) , no change in cell death or cell proliferation could be see in the metacarpal - phalangeal or metatarsal - phalangeal joint at e13.5 or e14.5 ( unpublished data ) .
similarly , although clear lacz expression be see by e15.5 in interphalangeal joint and periarticular region ( figure 4d ) , no difference in morphology or expression of col2a1 , gdf5 , or bmpr1b be see in the articular region of the phalanx at these stage ( unpublished data ) .
at birth , digit joint be generally indistinguishable from those in control animal ; chondrocytes be abundant in articular region and be surround by typical cartilage matrix with normal staining by safranin o , a histological stain for proteoglycans ( figure 5 ) .
at this stage , both wild - type and mutant cell in articular region also express high level of col2a1 and aggrecan ( agg ) , the gene encode the major structural protein of cartilage matrix ( figure 5b and 5g ) ( unpublished data ) .
no alteration in cellular apoptosis or proliferation be observe ( unpublished data ) .
to determine whether articular cell be properly specify in mutant , we also analyze expression of matrilin - 4 ( mat4 ) , a gene express specifically in the periarticular and perichondral region of develop joint ( klatt et al. 2001 ) .
in both control and mutant animal , transcription of mat4 be clearly detectable in the articular cartilage layer of newborn joint ( figure 5d and 5i ) .
in all experiment , expression of lacz throughout articular region indicate that cre - mediate recombination have occur throughout the articular region ( figure 5c , 5h , 5e , and 5j ) .
the normal histological appearance , stain property , and marker gene expression pattern suggest that bmpr1a be not require for the initial formation or specification of articular cartilage .
by 1 wk after birth , obvious difference begin to be detect in the articular region of mutant animal .
the expression of col2a1 be reduce throughout the articular surface of the carpal , metacarpal , and phalanx of the forefoot ( unpublished data ) .
less severe reduction be also see in articular cell of tarsal and metatarsal in the hindfeet ( unpublished data ) .
by 2 wk of age , col2a1 expression be reduce in most cell of the articular region ( figure 5l and 5q ) , accompany by markedly reduce safranin o staining ( figure 5k and 5p ) , and decrease expression of agg and two gene normally express in more mature articular cartilage cell , collagen 3 ( col3a1 ) and collagen 10 ( col10a1 ) ( figure 5m and 5r ) ( unpublished data ) ( eyre 2002 ) .
inhibition of bmp signaling in culture chondrocytes have previously be report to induce collagen 1 ( col1a1 ) expression , increase proliferation , and result in cell with flatten , fibroblast - like morphology ( enomoto - iwamoto et al. 1998 ) .
however , we saw no increase in the expression of col1a1 in mutant articular cartilage , and no proliferation be detect in articular cell of either mutant or control animal ( unpublished data ) .
while recombine lacz marker expression be detect in most articular cartilage cell , it be also observe in scatter subarticular chondrocytes , growth plate chondrocytes , and osteoblast ( figure 5o and 5t ) ( unpublished data ) .
although this imply that bmp signaling be defective in multiple cell type , the observe defect be confine to the articular cartilage .
for example , osteocalcin and col1a1 expression appear normal in osteoblast ( unpublished data ) .
together , these data suggest that bmpr1a activity be require in postnatal joint articular cartilage to maintain expression of many gene encode structural component of cartilage matrix .
previous study have show that sox9 be require for normal cartilage differentiation , for expression of cartilage extracellular matrix ( ecm ) gene include agg , and be a direct transcriptional regulator of the key cartilage matrix gene col2a1 ( bell et al. 1997 ; lefebvre et al. 1997 ; bi et al. 1999 ; sekiya et al. 2000 ) .
notably , despite reduce expression of many cartilage matrix marker gene in bmpr1a mutant mouse , the sox9 protein be present at normal level in articular region at all stage examine , include newborn , 2 - wk - old , 7 - wk - old , and 9 - mo - old mouse ( figure 5n and 5 ) ( unpublished data ) .
synovial hypertrophy , cartilage erosion , and accelerate cartilage maturation
conditional loss of bmpr1a lead to mark hypertrophy of the synovial membrane in the joint capsule of some joint , particularly in the ankle region .
in the most severely affect joint , the expand synovial membrane grow into the joint space and be associate with obvious loss or erosion of the articular cartilage ( figure 6a and 6b , asterisk , arrow ) .
accelerate cartilage maturation and increase expression of col10a1 be frequently see in the chondrocytes underlie the articular erosion ( figure 6c and 6d , bracket ) ( unpublished data ) .
interestingly , the region of increase col10a1 expression do not correspond to the region that have undergo cre - mediate recombination .
instead , increase expression of col10a1 be see in a zone of largely lacz - negative cell stretch from the cartilage adjacent to the ossification front ( where col10a1 be normally express in mature cartilage cell ) , toward the region where surface articular cartilage be severely erode or miss ( figure 6a and 6b , arrowhead ) .
previous study suggest that parathyroid hormone - relate protein , a diffusible signal make in the articular surface , may normally inhibit maturation of underlie cartilage ( vortkamp et al. 1996 ; weir et al. 1996 ) .
local loss of the articular surface could remove this inhibition and lead to a cell - nonautonomous acceleration of maturation in chondrocytes underlie point of articular erosion .
this synovial hypertrophy be associate with increase number of mononuclear cell resemble synoviocytes or macrophage , cell type that be difficult to distinguish even with surface marker at early postnatal stage .
however , no neutrophil be observe , suggest that there be little inflammation .
at late stage synovial hypertrophy be reduce .
further work will be need to determine whether synovial development be regulate by bmp signaling , or whether the synovium become enlarge a a response to nearby skeletal malformation ( such a fusion of the second and central tarsal or defect in the articular cartilage ) .
noninflammatory degeneration of articular cartilage in digit and knee joint
outside of the ankle region , little or no evidence be see for expansion of the synovial membrane .
instead , mutant mouse show histological sign of osteoarthritis , such a fibrillation of the articular surface ( figure 7 ) .
a previously see in 1 - and 2 - wk - old animal , safranin o staining and agg and col10 expression be all reduce in mutant articular region of the forefoot and hindfeet by 7 wk of age , and the beginning sign of cartilage loss be observe ( unpublished data ) .
by 9 mo of age , many region of articular cartilage be completely miss or extremely fibrillate , leave region of expose bone on the surface ( figure 7a – 7d ) .
no alteration be see in the expression of osteocalcin , col1a1 , or matrix metalloprotease - 13 at either 7 wk or 9 mo .
the major weight - bear joint of the hindlimb , the knee , show change that closely parallel that see in the foot joint .
all marker of cartilage matrix look similar to control at e16.5 , suggest that early stage of joint formation be not disrupt ( unpublished data ) .
by postnatal day 7 , safranin o staining and col2a1 and agg expression be clearly reduce in the mutant , despite continue expression of sox9 ( unpublished data ) .
the overall shape of mutant knee skeletal element appear similar to control , although the fibrocartilaginous meniscus that reside between the femur and tibia appear much less dense in mutant at e16.5 .
some cartilage form in the meniscus region , but the size of these element be greatly reduce and contain abundant cell with fibrous , noncartilaginous appearance ( unpublished data ) .
this reduction of the meniscus can also be see in section from 7 - wk - and 9 - mo - old animal ( figure 7e , 7h , 7k , and 7n , arrow ) .
at 7 wk of age the normally domed tibial epiphysis be flatten and depress in the knee of mutant animal , markedly reduce the distance between the growth plate and articular surface ( figure 7e and 7h , vertical bar ) .
articular cartilage be also thin than in control animal , show nearly complete absence of safranin o staining , and be either acellular or begin to fibrillate in many region ( figure 7f and 7i ) .
the few large safranin o - stain cell still apparent in mutant articular region appear to correspond in position to rare lacz - negative cell in adjacent section , suggest that bmpr1a be require cell - autonomously in articular cartilage ( figure 7i and 7j , white arrowhead ) .
by 9 mo , large area of mutant knee be devoid of articular cell , and the bone of the femur and tibia appear to rub directly against each other .
furthermore , the epiphysis of the tibia be extremely depressed , to the point that growth plate cartilage be almost expose through the surface of the bone ( figure 7k , 7l , 7n , and 7o ) .
in addition , mutant at 7 wk and 9 mo show subchondral sclerosis , especially in the epiphysis of the femur ( figure 7e , 7h , 7k , and 7n , asterisk ) .
while subchondral sclerosis be commonly see in case of osteoarthritis , it be unclear in this case whether the sclerosis be mainly a response of bone formation to compensate for decrease articular cartilage , or whether it be the effect of loss of bmpr1a signaling in some lacz - positive cell that be also observe in these region ( unpublished data ) .
the histological sign of joint arthritis be accompany by functional impairment in both grasp ability and range of motion in mutant animal .
gdf5 - cre / bmpr1afloxp mutant animal show a highly significantly reduce ability to grasp and remain suspend on a slender rod ( mean suspension time : control 38 ± 6 s , n = 39 ; mutant 6 ± 3 s , n = 11 ; p < 0.0001 ) .
mutant mouse also show a clear decrease in the maximum range of mobility of two different joint in the digit , a assay by passive manipulation ( mt / p1 joint : control 100 ± 0 ° , n = 26 ; mutant 82 ± 3 ° , n = 8 ; p < 0.0003 ; p1 / p2 joint : control 152 ± 1 ° , n = 23 ; mutant 140 ± 5 ° , n = 6 ; p < 0.05 ) .
the structural , histological , marker gene expression , and functional change in mutant mouse demonstrate that bmpr1a be require for normal postnatal maintenance of articular cartilage .
discussion
previous study suggest that bmp signaling be involve in a large number of developmental event .
many of these event occur early in embryogenesis , and complete inactivation of bmp receptor cause death by e9.5 ( mishina et al. 1995 ) .
the gdf5 - cre recombination system bypass the early embryonic lethality of bmpr1a mutation , and provide important new information about the role of this receptor in limb and skeletal development .
the three major limb phenotype reveal by eliminate bmpr1a with gdf5 - drive cre include webbing between digit , lack of joint formation at specific location in the ankle , and failure to maintain articular cartilage after birth , result in severe arthritis .
previous study have show that manipulation of bmp signaling alter interdigital apoptosis during development of the limb , but no experiment have identify a specific member of the bmp signaling pathway that be require for this process ( yokouchi et al. 1996 ; zou and niswander 1996 ; zou et al. 1997 ; guha et al. 2002 ) .
our new loss - of - function data confirm that bmp signaling be require for interdigital apoptosis and suggest that bmpr1a be a critical component for mediate this signal .
at some site , loss of bmpr1a function lead to a defect in the early stage of joint formation , result in a complete failure to form a joint and fusion of bone in the ankle .
mutation in two different ligand in the bmp family , gdf5 and gdf6 , the bmpr1b receptor , and in the human noggin locus ( storm and kingsley 1996 ; gong et al. 1999 ; baur et al. 2000 ; yi et al. 2000 ; settle et al. 2003 ) also produce defect in joint formation at specific location in the limb .
the joint defect associate with multiple component of the bmp pathway provide strong evidence that bmp signaling be require for early stage of joint formation at some anatomical location .
most joint still form normally when bmpr1a be knock out in gdf5 expression domain .
the lack of joint fusion outside the ankle region could be due to difference in requirement for bmp signaling in different joint , to compensate expression of other bmp receptor outside the ankle , or to difference in the detail timing of gdf5 - cre stimulate gene inactivation in ankle and other joint region .
comparison of the expression of the hplap marker ( drive directly by gdf5 control element ) and the r26r lacz marker ( express follow gdf5 - cre recombination ) suggest that recombination - stimulate change in gene expression may be delay for a 0.5 – 1 d in the digit region ( see figure 1c ) .
in addition , level of bmpr1a mrna and protein may persist for some time follow gdf5 - cre stimulate recombination , make it possible to bypass an early requirement for bmpr1a in joint formation at some location .
follow the decay of bmpr1a mrna and protein , the gdf5 - cre strategy should result in permanent inactivation of bmpr1a function in recombine cell .
this system thus provide one of the first strong genetic test of bmpr1a function at late stage of joint development .
despite the normal appearance of articular region and gene expression immediately after birth , bmpr1a - deficient animal be unable to maintain the normal differentiate state of articular cartilage a they continue to develop and age .
these result suggest that bmp receptor signaling be essential for continue health and integrity of articular cartilage in the postnatal period .
articular cartilage be a key component of synovial joint and be one of the few region in the skeleton where cartilage be maintain into adulthood .
despite the importance of articular cartilage in joint health and mobility , little be know about the factor that create and maintain it in thin layer at the end of long bone .
in our experiment , articular cartilage lack bmpr1a retain some normal characteristic , in that it maintain a very low proliferation rate , do not express col1a1 , and continue to express sox9 , a major transcription factor regulate expression of structural component of cartilage matrix .
however , several of the most prominent structural component of cartilage matrix fail to be maintain in mutant animal , result in decrease synthesis of col2a1 , agg , and proteoglycans .
therefore , bmpr1a appear to maintain articular cartilage primarily through induce expression of key ecm component .
it be interesting that the sox9 transcription factor continue to be express in mutant cartilage despite loss of col2a1 , a direct target of this transcription factor ( bell et al. 1997 ; lefebvre et al. 1997 ) .
previous study suggest that sox9 activity can be modify by protein kinase a ( pka ) - dependent protein phosphorylation , or by coexpression of two relate protein , l - sox5 and sox6 ( lefebvre et al. 1998 ; huang et al. 2000 ) .
in addition , close examination of the order of gene induce during chicken digit formation reveal that sox9 turn on first , follow by bmpr1b with l - sox5 , and then sox6 and the cartilage matrix structural component col2a1 and agg ( chimal - monroy et al. 2003 ) .
these result , together with the alter pattern of gene expression see in our bmpr1a - deficient mouse , suggest that bmpr1a signaling may normally act to stimulate sox9 by post-translational protein modification , or to induce l - sox5 or sox6 in cartilage to maintain expression of ecm component .
these model be consistent with the ability of bmp2 to both increase pka activity and induce expression of sox6 in tissue culture cell ( lee and chuong 1997 ; fernandez - lloris et al. 2003 ) .
although we have try to monitor the expression of l - sox5 or sox6 in postnatal articular cartilage , and test the phosphorylation state of sox9 use previously describe reagent ( lefebvre et al. 1998 ; huang et al. 2000 ) , we have be unable to obtain specific signal at the late postnatal stage require ( unpublished data ) .
furthermore , null mutation in l - sox5 or sox - 6 cause lethality at or soon after birth , and no effect on cartilage maintenance have be report ( smits et al. 2001 ) .
however , it seem likely that these or other process regulate by bmp signaling cooperate with sox9 to induce target gene in articular cartilage .
mutation of smad3 or expression of dominant negative transform growth factor β ( tgf - β ) type ii receptor also disrupt normal articular cartilage maintenance ( serra et al. 1997 ; yang et al. 2001 ) .
both manipulation should disrupt tgfβ rather than bmp signaling , and both manipulation cause articular cartilage to hypertrophy and be replace by bone .
in contrast , our analysis of bmpr1a mutant articular cartilage show a loss of ecm component , but no sign of hypertrophy or bone replacement .
therefore , tgfβ and bmp signaling be play distinct but necessary role to maintain articular cartilage .
although bmps be originally isolate on the basis of their ability to induce ectopic bone formation , their presence in articular cartilage and strong effect on cartilage formation have stimulate interest in use them to repair or regenerate cartilage defect in adult animal ( chang et al. 1994 ; erlacher et al. 1998 ; edward and francis - west 2001 ; chubinskaya and kuettner 2003 ) .
the failure to maintain articular cartilage in the absence of normal bmpr1a function suggest that ligand or small molecule agonist that interact specifically with this receptor subtype may be particularly good candidate for design new approach to maintain or heal articular cartilage at postnatal stage .
lack of bmpr1a function in articular cartilage result in severe fibrillation of the articular surface and loss of joint mobility .
the development of severe arthritis symptom in bmpr1a - deficient mouse raise the possibility that defect in bmp signaling also contribute to human joint disease .
osteoarthritis be know to have a significant genetic component , but it likely involve multiple genetic factor that have be difficult to identify ( spector et al. 1996 ; felson et al. 1998 ; hirsch et al. 1998 ) .
human that be heterozygous for loss - of - function mutation in bmpr1a be know to be at risk for juvenile polyposis ( howe et al. 2001 ; zhou et al. 2001 ) , but the risk of osteoarthritis for these people have not be report .
however , the control mouse use in this study be heterozygous for a null allele of bmpr1a , and they show little sign of osteoarthritis even late in life .
several chromosome region have be previously link to arthritis phenotype in human use either association study in population or linkage study in family .
it be interesting to note that several of these chromosome region contain gene encode different member of the bmp signaling pathway , include the bmp5 gene on human chromosome 6p12 ( loughlin et al. 2002 ) , the madh1 gene on human chromosome 4q26 – 4q31 ( leppavuori et al. 1999 ; kent et al. 2002 ) , and the bmpr2 receptor on human chromosome 2q33 ( wright et al. 1996 ) .
the complex nature of human osteoarthritis suggest that interaction between multiple gene may be involve in modify susceptibility to the disease .
the inclusion of genetic marker near bmp signaling component may help identify additional osteoarthritis susceptibility locus and facilitate the search for causative mutation .
development and disease process in synovial joint have be difficult to study genetically , because synovial joint be generate and function at relatively late stage of vertebrate development .
the gdf5 - cre system provide a new method for restrict gene expression or inactivation primarily to articular region , thus avoid the pleiotropic function of many gene in other tissue .
depend on the configuration of the floxed target gene , this system can be use to either activate the expression of a gene primarily in develop joint ( ssee figure 1b – 1d ) , or to inactivate gene function in articular region ( see figure 3 ) .
additional study with this system should greatly enhance our knowledge of the development , function , and disease mechanism of joint , and may bring u close to good prevention and treatment of joint disease .
material and method
generation of gdf5 - cre transgenic mouse
a mouse 129x1 / svj bac library ( invitrogen ) be screen to identify a 140 - kb bac from the gdf5 locus .
this bac be modify use a homologous recombination system in e. coli ( yang et al. 1997 ) to place nuclear - localize cre recombinase ( from plasmid pml78 , gift of gail martin ) follow by ire - hplap ( from plasmid 1726 , gift of oliver bogler ) directly behind the atg start site of gdf5 .
in the process , 583 bp of the first exon of gdf5 be remove and no functional gdf5 protein be predict to be produce .
the 5 ′ homology arm be subcloned from a pcr product tail with xhoi and bsp120i restriction site that contain 781 bp of 5 ′ genomic gdf5 sequence end at the atg translation start site ( forward primer 5 ′ - ctgtctcgagatgaggtggaggtgaagacccc - 3 ′ ; reverse 5 ′ - gtttgggcccatcctctggccagccgctg - 3 ′ ) .
cre be subcloned from a 1.1 - kb bsp120i / ecori fragment of pml78 .
ire hplap be subcloned from a 2.1 - kb pcr product tail with ecori and spei site that contain the hplap translation stop site ( forward primer 5 ′ - atctctcgaggaattctccaccatattgccgtcttttg - 3 ′ ; reverse 5 ′ - agaactcgagactagtcgggacactcagggagtagtgg - 3 ′ ) .
the 3 ′ homology arm be subcloned from a 0.8 - kb pcr product amplify from a 0.9 - kb xhoi gdf5 genomic subclone contain part of the first exon and downstream intron .
the forward primer contain the 3 ′ end of the first exon and be tail with a spei site ; the reverse primer be from the t7 promoter of the vector contain the 0.9 - kb subclone and flank the intronic xhoi site ( forward primer 5 ′ - ctaaactagtcaccagctttattgacaaagg - 3 ′ ; reverse 5 ′ - gatttctagagtaatacgactcactatagggc - 3 ′ ) .
the targeting construct be build and verify in pbssk ( stratagene , la jolla , california , united state ) , then digest with xhoi and subcloned into psv1 , the vector use for homologous recombination ( yang et al. 1997 ) .
southern blotting , pcr , and dna sequence analysis confirm the appropriate targeting construct and bac modification be make ( unpublished data ) .
before the modify bac be inject to produce transgenic animal , a loxp site present in the bac vector , pbelobac11 , be remove to prevent the addition of undesired cre target site into the genome .
to do this , bac dna be prepare by cscl separation , digest with noti to free the insert from the vector , and size - fractionate over a sucrose gradient .
aliquot of fraction be run on a pulse - field gel and southern blot use vector - specific dna a a probe .
fraction contain unsheared insert and almost no detectable vector dna be dialyze in microinjection buffer ( 10 mm tris [ ph 7.4 ] with 0.15 mm edta [ ph 8.0 ] ) use centriprep - 30 concentrators ( millipore , billerica , massachusetts , united state ) .
this purify insert dna be adjust to 1 ng / μl and inject into the pronucleus of fertilize egg from fvb / n mouse by the stanford transgenic facility .
transgenic founder mouse be identify by pcr use cre - specific primer 5 ′ - gcctgcattaccggtcgatgcaacga - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gtggcagatggcgcggcaacaccatt - 3 ′ , which amplify a 725 - bp product , and be assess for absence of bac vector use vector - specific primer 5 ′ - cggagtctgatgcggttgcgatg - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - agtgctgttccctggtgcttcctc - 3 ′ , which amplify a 465 - bp product .
three line of gdf5 - cre mouse be establish and maintain on the fvb background .
mating with r26r cre - inducible lacz reporter mouse ( soriano 1999 ) be use to test for cre activity .
stain for lacz and hplap on whole embryo or section of embryo be accomplish follow establish protocol ( lobe et al. 1999 ) .
the red lacz substrate ( see figure 1e ) be 6 - chloro - 3 - indoxyl - beta - d - galactopyranoside ( biosynth international , naperville , illinois , united state ) .
general characterization of bmpr1a mutant mouse
bmpr1a null and floxed allele ( ahn et al. 2001 ; mishina et al. 2002 ) be obtain on a mix 129 and c57bl / 6 background and maintain by random breeding .
mouse carry the null and floxed allele be typically mat to gdf5 - cre mouse a show in figure 3 .
the result mouse be on a mix 129 ; c57bl / 6 ; fvb / n background , with both control and mutant animal generate a littermates from the same mating .
whole - mount skeletal preparation be make from 34 - to 36 - d - old mouse ( lufkin et al. 1992 ) .
pair of ear from euthanized 6 - mo - old animal be remove , pin , photograph , project , and measure from the base of the curve form between the tragus and antitragus to the farthest point at the edge of the pinna .
grasping ability in 6 - mo - old mouse be measure by place animal on a slender rod and time how long they could remain suspended on the rod , to a maximum time allow of 2 min .
data from five consecutive trial for each mouse be average .
range of motion assay be conduct on the mt / p1 and p1 / p2 joint of the second hindlimb digit from euthanized 18 - wk - old animal .
forceps be use to bend the joint to it natural stopping position , and the result angle be measure to the near 10 ° under 12.5 × magnification use a 360 ° reticule .
analysis describe in this section occur on animal lack r26r .
control mouse include all nonmutant genotype generate by parent 1 be heterozygous for gdf5 - cre and bmpr1anull and parent 2 be heterozygous for bmpr1afloxp ( see figure 3 ) .
all statistical analysis use the student 's t - test or welch 's t - test , and value list be mean ± standard error of the mean .
cell death and proliferation assay
limb from mutant and control animal at e13.5 and e14.5 be dissect and freeze in oct ( sakura finetek , torrence , ca , united state ) .
cryosections of tissue be assay by tunel use the in situ cell death detection kit , fluorescein ( roche , basel , switzerland ) .
follow tunel , slide be wash in pb , block with pb + 0.05 % tween - 20 + 5 % goat serum , wash again , and incubate with a 1 : 200 dilution of a rabbit anti-phospho-histone - h3 antibody call mitosis marker ( upstate biotechnology , lake placid , new york , united state ) to identify cell in mitosis .
cy3 - label anti-rabbit secondary antibody be use to detect the antibody .
cell nucleus be label with dapi , and slide be mount in vectamount ( vector laboratory , burlingame , california , united state ) and visualize at 100 × magnification .
the area of select anatomical site be measure , and the number of tunel - label nuclear fragment and the number of cy3 - label nucleus be count from three 10 - μm section span 50 μm , from three control and three mutant animal .
the number of label cell in the metacarpal - phalangeal and metatarsal - phalangeal joint be count in a 290 μm × 365 μm rectangle place around the center of the joint .
the posterior region of the fifth digit be define by draw a line from the tip of the digit down 2.15 mm and across to the lateral edge of the tissue .
for this analysis , the r26r cre reporter be not present .
histology and histochemistry
tissue from animal range from stage e14.5 to p14 be prepare for analysis by fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde ( pfa ) in pb for 45 min to 4 h depend on the stage ; wash three time in pb , once in pb + 15 % sucrose for 1 h , and once in pb + 30 % sucrose for 2 h to overnight depend on the stage ; and then freeze in oct .
tissue from animal age 7 wk to 9 mo be process similarly to early stage except that it be decalcify in 0.5 m edta ( ph 7.4 ) for 4 d prior to incubate in sucrose .
all solution be prechilled and use at 4 °c with agitation , and skin from tissue of p0 or old mouse be lacerate or remove prior to processing .
tissue be then cryosectioned at 12 μm and process .
staining of section with safranin o , fast green , and harris ' hematoxylin be carry out use standard histological procedure .
detection of lacz activity with x - gal be perform a describe ( lobe et al. 1999 ) and be follow by refixing in 4 % pfa , rinse with deionize water , counterstaining with nuclear fast red ( vector lab ) , rinse with water again , and then mount in aquamount ( lerner lab , pittsburgh , pennsylvania , united state ) .
rna in situ hybridization be perform a describe ( storm and kingsley 1996 ) , with the follow modification : ( 1 ) prior to the acetylation step , section be incubate with 10 – 20 μg / ml proteinase k for 30 s to 7 min at room temperature ( depend on the developmental stage ) , follow by refixing in 4 % pfa and wash three time in pb ; ( 2 ) prehybridization step be skip , and ( 3 ) embryonic tissue section use a different color development mix ( thut et al. 2001 ) .
probe for the follow gene have be publish previously : bmpr1a ( mishina et al. 1995 ) , col2a1 ( metsaranta et al. 1991 ) , col10a1 ( apte et al. 1992 ) , gdf5 ( storm and kingsley 1996 ) , osteocalcin ( celeste et al. 1986 ) , and sox5 and sox6 ( lefebvre et al. 1998 ) .
the follow probe template be gift : agg , dr. vicki rosen , genetics institute ; bmp2 and bmp4 , arend sidow , stanford university ; col1a1 , bjorn olsen , harvard medical school ; bmpr1b , col3a1 , and mat4 probe be make from est with image clone number 5056341 , 478480 , and 406027 , respectively ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
section for immunohistochemistry be fix in 4 % pfa , then digest with 942 – 2,000 u / ml type iv - s bovine hyaluronindase ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) in pb ( ph 5 ) at 37 °c for 30 min to 2 h depend on the stage .
slide be then wash in pb , treat with 0.3 % hydrogen peroxide in 100 % methanol for 30 min , wash , block with pb + 0.05 % tween20 + 5 % goat or fetal bovine serum , wash again , and incubate with primary antibody in pb + 0.05 % tween 20 + 1 % goat or fetal bovine serum overnight at 4 °c .
biotin - label secondary antibody ( vector lab ) be tag with hrp use the vectastain elite abc kit ( vector lab ) follow by detection with dab ( vector lab ) .
primary antibody and dilution use be : goat anti-mouse mmp13 , 1 : 100 ( chemicon international , temecula , california , united state ) ; rabbit anti-human sox9 , 1 : 500 ( morais da silva et al. 1996 ) ; rabbit anti-phosphorylated - sox9 ( sox9 . p ) , 1 : 10 – 1 : 250 ( huang et al. 2000 ) .
support information
accession number
genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nih.gov/genbank/ ) accession number for the gene discuss in this paper be gdf5 ( ac084323 ) and bmpr1a ( nm_009758 ) .
acknowledgement
we thank gail martin for the cre construct ( plasmid pml78 ) and oliver bogler for the ire - hplap construct ( plasmid 1726 ) ; bjorn olsen and benoit de crombrugghe for antibody ; the follow individual for in situ probe template : sophie candille , arend sidow ( bmp2 and bmp4 ) , vicki rosen ( agg ) , and bjorn olsen ( col1a1 ) ; véronique lefebvre for sox5 and sox6 probe template and useful discussion ; michelle johnson for help with phenotypic assay on mouse ; dr. corrine davis for help in evaluate synovial section ; rebecca rountree for adobe photoshop and illustrator tip ; and member of the kingsley lab for helpful comment on the manuscript .
this work be support by an nih predoctoral training grant ( rr ) , a postdoctoral fellowship from the arthritis foundation ( m ) , and grant from the national institute of health ( dk ) .
dr. kingsley be an associate investigator of the howard hughes medical institute .
abbreviation
bac - bacterial artificial chromosome
bmpr1a - bone morphogenetic protein receptor 1a
e [ number ] - embyonic day [ number ]
ecm - extracellular matrix
gac - transgenic line carry gdf5 - alkaline phosphatase - cre construct
gdf5 - growth differentiation factor 5
hplap - human placental alkaline phosphatase
ire - internal ribosome entry site
pfa - paraformaldehyde
r26r - lacz rosa26 cre reporter strain
tgf - β - transform growth factor β
tunel - terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase – mediate deoxyuridine triphosphate nick end labeling
figure and table
figure 1
a genetic system to drive gene recombination in develop joint
( a ) a 140 - kb bac from the gdf5 locus be modify by insert cre - ire - hplap into the translation start site of gdf5 and use to make transgenic mouse .
not to scale .
see material and method for detail .
( b – e ) visualization of gdf5 - cre drive recombination pattern base on activation of lacz expression from the r26r cre reporter allele .
( b ) lacz activity be visible a blue staining in the ear ( ea ) and the joint of the shoulder ( s ) , elbow ( eb ) , wrist ( w ) , knee ( k ) , ankle ( a ) , vertebra ( vj ) , and phalanx ( black arrowhead ) of an e14.5 mouse embryo .
( c ) e14.5 hindlimb double - stain to show both hplap expression from the transgene ( grey / purple staining ) and lacz expression from the rearrange r26r allele ( blue staining ) .
note that both marker be visible in the old , proximal interphalangeal joint ( black arrowhead ) , only hplap activity be visible in the more recently form medial interphalangeal joint ( black arrow ) , and neither hplap nor lacz expression be visible in the young , most distal joint of the digit ( white arrowhead ) .
( d ) newborn ( p0 ) forelimb with skin partially remove show lacz activity express in all phalangeal joint ( red salmon gal staining , black arrowhead ) and region of some tendon ( asterisk ) .
( e ) section through the most distal phalangeal joint of a p0 hindlimb stain with alcian blue to mark cartilage show lacz expression ( stain red ) in all tissue of develop joint : articular cartilage ( black arrowhead ) , precursor of ligament and synovial membrane ( black arrow ) , and cell where cavitation be occur ( asterisk ) .
figure 2
bmpr1a be require for webbing regression and apoptosis in specific region of the limb
( a and b ) control e14.5 forelimb ( a ) compare to a , e14.5 mutant forelimb ( b ) show web between digit 1 and 2 ( arrowhead ) and extra tissue at the posterior of digit 5 ( arrow ) .
( c ) gdf5 - cre induce lacz expression from r26r in an e13.5 forelimb show lacz staining ( blue ) in metacarpal - phalangeal joint , between digit 1 and 2 ( arrowhead ) , and in a region posterior to digit 5 ( arrow ) .
( d and e ) section of e14.5 hindlimb show apoptosis visualize by tunel staining ( green ) and proliferation visualize by stain for histone h3 phosphorylation ( red ) .
control show strong , uniform tunel staining between digit 1 and 2 ( d , arrowhead ) while mutant show patchy tunel staining intersperse with mitotic cell in similar region ( e ) .
scale bar = 200 μm .
( f ) quantitation of tunel staining and mitotic cell in the posterior region of the fifth digit show apoptosis be reduce 30 % while proliferation be increase 20 % ( asterisk indicate statistically significant difference ) .
( g and h ) by e15.5 , interdigital tissue have regress in control ( g , arrowhead ) .
in contrast , tissue remain in mutant at this location , primarily derive from cell that have undergo gdf5 - cre - mediate recombination that inactivate bmpr1a function and activate expression of lacz ( h ) .
scale bar = 75 μm .
figure 3
gdf5 - cre - mediate deletion of bmpr1a
( a ) breeding strategy simultaneously delete bmpr1afloxp and allow visualization of gdf5 - cre - mediate recombination by lacz expression from r26r .
( b – e ) 5 - week - old mutant and control mouse stain with alcian blue to mark cartilage and alizarin red to mark bone .
( b ) ankle of control with strong blue staining line each joint ( arrowhead ) .
( c ) ankle of mutant show an absence of blue staining in most region ( arrowhead ) and a joint fusion between the central ( c ) and second ( 2 ) tarsal ( arrow ) .
( d ) control and ( e ) mutant metatarsal / phalangeal joint which lack blue staining in articular region ( arrowhead ) but retain staining in the growth plate ( asterisk ) .
( f ) control forelimb .
( g ) mutant forelimb with webbing between the first and second digit ( black arrowhead ) .
figure 4
bmpr1a be express in joint and be require for continue joint formation in the ankle region
( a ) diagram of ankle bone from a wild - type mouse ; bone fuse in mutant be color red .
roman numeral ii – iv , metatarsal ; 2 , 3 , and 4 / 5 , distal row of tarsal bone ; c , central tarsal bone ; ta , talus ; ca , calcaneus .
( b and c ) in situ hybridization at e15.5 show that bmpr1a be express in ankle joint interzones ( b , arrowhead ) and in the form articular region of the phalangeal joint ( c , arrowhead ) .
( d ) near adjacent section to ( c ) show gdf5 - cre induce lacz expression from r26r in the form joint of the digit ( arrowhead ) .
( e – j ) marker gene expression and r26r lacz staining pattern on near adjacent section of control and mutant embryo .
in control mouse at e15.5 ankle joint be clearly delineate a region that have down - regulate col2 ( e ) , express gdf5 throughout ( f ) , and express lacz in most cell ( g ; white arrowhead and black arrow ) .
in mutant embryo at the same stage , joint formation be incomplete .
faint col2 expression can be see connect a medial region of tarsal 2 with metatarsal ii ( h , white arrowhead ) , and gdf5 expression do not extend all the way across the joint at this location ( i , white arrowhead ) .
between tarsal c and 2 , mutant express col2 across the normal joint - form region ( h , black arrow ) and lack expression of gdf5 at site where skeletal fusion be observe ( i , black arrow and bracket ) .
( j ) scale bar = 100 μm .
figure 5
bmpr1a be require to maintain expression of ecm component in articular cartilage
in situ hybridization or lacz staining on near adjacent section of metacarpal - phalangeal joint ( a – c and f – h ) and the tarsal 2 - metatarsal ii joint ( d – e and i – j ) of p0 mouse .
at birth , articular cartilage of control ( a – e ) and mutant ( f – j ) appear similar by safranin o staining ( a and f ) , and col2 expression ( b , g ) .
mat4 expression confirm that articular cartilage be initially specify in mutant ( d andi , bracket ) .
lacz expression confirm cre - mediate recombination have occur in articular cartilage ( c , h , e , and j ) .
( k – t ) near adjacent section of the metacarpal - phalangeal joint of p14 mouse .
two week after birth , articular cartilage of control stain with pericellular safranin o ( orange staining , k ) , and express col2 ( l ) , agg ( m ) , and sox9 ( n ) .
in contrast , mutant articular cell be small and more densely pack , lack pericellular safranin o staining ( p ) , have reduce expression of col2 ( q ) and agg ( r ) , but retain normal level of sox9 protein ( s , bracket ; dash line mark faint edge of articular surface ) .
lacz expression confirm cre - mediate recombination have occur in articular cell ( o ansd t , bracket ) .
( a and k ) scale bar = 75 μm .
figure 6
synovial membrane expansion , articular surface erosion , and accelerate maturation of underlie cartilage in ankle of bmpr1a mutant mouse
near adjacent section from the tarsal 2 - metatarsal ii joint of 7 - d - old mouse .
( a and b ) lacz staining ( blue ) show cre - mediate recombination be largely restrict to articular ( arrowhead ) and synovial cell ( asterisk ) in both control and mutant .
( c and d ) in situ hybridization show col10 expression expand in mutant toward region of synovial membrane expansion and articular surface erosion ( bracket and arrow ) .
this may be a cell nonautonomous effect of joint damage , since the lacz express cell at the articular surface do not show upregulation of col10 ( arrowhead ) and the region of expand col10 expression be largely make up of cell that have not undergo cre - mediate recombination .
note the formation of a cartilaginous bridge along the joint capsule of the mutant where joint formation be disrupt at early stage ( b , white arrowhead , and figure 3 , white arrowhead ) .
( a ) scale bar = 75 μm .
figure 7
loss of bmpr1a signaling lead to articular cartilage fibrillation and degeneration in digit and knee of age mouse
( a – d ) near adjacent section of metatarsal - phalangeal joint from 9 month old mouse .
articular cartilage of control be complete and stain strongly with safranin o ( a , orange stain ) .
in contrast , articular cell of mutant be severely fibrillate or absent with much reduce staining of safranin o ( c , arrowhead ) .
lacz expression confirm cre - mediate recombination have occur in articular cell ( b and d ) .
( e – p ) sagittal section through knee joint of 7 - wk - ( e – j ) or 9 - mo - old animal ( k – p ) ; fe , femur ; ti , tibia ; gp , growth plate .
seven week after birth , the height of the tibial epiphysis be reduce in mutant ( e and h , bar ) , and their articular layer stain poorly with safranin o , be fibrillate , and be strikingly thin ( f and i , black arrowhead , and bracket ) .
near adjacent section with lacz staining confirm cre - mediate recombination have occur in articular cell ( g and j ) .
note that in mutant , lacz be absent in cell adjacent to those that do stain with safranin o , suggest bmpr1a may act cell autonomously ( i and j , white arrowhead ) .
at 9 mo old , the mutant tibial epiphysis be extremely thin ( k and n , bar ) , and the articular layer be completely absent , leave bone to rub directly on bone ( l and o , bracket ) .
lacz staining show cre - mediate recombination occur in articular cell of control ( m ) and in some remain skeletal tissue of mutant ( p ) .
also note aberrantly form meniscal cartilage in mutant ( e , h , k , and n , arrow ) , and increase sclerosis in mutant epiphysis ( e , h , k , and n , asterisk ) .
( a and k ) scale bar = 50 μm ; ( i ) scale bar = 300 μm .
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
rbr , m , and dmk conceive and design the experiment .
rbr and mem perform the experiment .
rbr , hc , and dmk analyze the data .
m , hc , vh , and ym contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
rbr and dmk write the paper .
academic editor : lee niswander , university of colorado health science center
¤  current address : artemis pharmaceutical , an exelixis company , köln , germany
citation : rountree rb , schoor m , chen h , mark me , harley v , et al. ( 2004 ) bmp receptor signaling be require for postnatal maintenance of articular cartilage .
plo biol 2 ( 11 ) : e355 .
two major branch of anti-cadmium defense in the mouse : mtf - 1 / metallothioneins and glutathione
abstract
metal - responsive transcription factor 1 ( mtf - 1 ) regulate expression of it target gene in response to various stress condition , notably heavy metal load , via binding to metal response element ( mres ) in the respective enhancer / promoter region .
furthermore , it serve a vital function in embryonic liver development .
however , target deletion of mtf1 in the liver after birth be no longer lethal .
for this study , mtf1 conditional knockout mouse and control littermates be both mock - or cadmium - treat and liver - specific transcription be analyze .
besides the well - characterize metallothionein gene , several new mtf - 1 target gene with mre motif in the promoter region emerge .
mtf - 1 be require for the basal expression of selenoprotein w , muscle 1 gene ( sepw1 ) that encode a glutathione - bind and putative antioxidant protein , support a role of mtf - 1 in the oxidative stress response .
furthermore , mtf - 1 mediate the cadmium - induce expression of n - myc downstream regulate gene 1 ( ndrg1 ) , which be induce by several stress condition and be overexpressed in many cancer .
mtf - 1 be also involve in the cadmium response of cysteine - and glycine - rich protein 1 gene ( csrp1 ) , which be implicate in cytoskeletal organization .
in contrast , mtf - 1 repress the basal expression of slc39a10 , a putative zinc transporter .
in a pathway independent of mtf - 1 , cadmium also induce the transcription of gene involve in the synthesis and regeneration of glutathione , a cadmium - bind antioxidant .
these data provide strong evidence for two major branch of cellular anti-cadmium defense , one via mtf - 1 and it target gene , notably metallothioneins , the other via glutathione , with an apparent overlap in selenoprotein w .
introduction
all organism have evolve mechanism to cope with a variety of stress situation .
one type of stress response be trigger by heavy metal , such a zinc , copper and cadmium ( for convenience , the term zinc , copper and cadmium be also use here to denote zn2 + , cu2 + and cd2 + , respectively ) .
metallothioneins ( mt ) , small , cysteine - rich protein , play an important role in metal homeostasis and detoxification due to their ability to bind different heavy metal ion ( 1 – 3 ) .
in the mouse , there be four metallothionein gene , designate a mt1 to mt4 .
basal , as well a heavy metal - induce , expression of mt1 and mt2 be mediate by metal - responsive transcription factor 1 ( mtf - 1 ) ( 4 – 7 ) .
this zinc finger protein recognize short ci - act dna sequence , term metal response element ( mres ; core consensus sequence tgcrcnc ) , which be present in the promoter of target gene ( 8 , 9 ) .
mtf - 1 be conserve in evolution , and homologs have be characterize in the mouse ( 10 ) , human ( 11 ) , drosophila ( 12 – 14 ) and fish ( 15 , 16 ) .
the role of mtf - 1 have be study most extensively in the mouse .
besides cop with heavy metal load , mtf - 1 can also mediate the induction of mt gene in response to other stress situation , such a oxidative stress ( 5 , 17 ) and hypoxia ( 18 ) .
in addition , it be require for the metalloregulation of znt1 , encode the major plasma membrane - localize zinc efflux transporter ( 19 ) , the hypoxic / anoxic induction of the gene for placental growth factor ( plgf ) , an angiogenic protein of the vascular endothelial growth factor ( vegf ) family ( 20 ) , and have recently be invoke in tumor development ( 21 , 22 ) .
furthermore , mtf - 1 have an essential function during embryogenesis : target disruption of mtf1 result in embryonic lethality around 14 day post coitum due to hepatocyte necrosis ( 23 ) .
in contrast , mouse with null mutation for the stress - inducible metallothionein gene ( mt1 and mt2 ) be viable , though sensitive to cadmium ( 24 , 25 ) , indicate that additional important mtf - 1 target gene be involve in the lethal phenotype .
with the cre - loxp conditional knockout technique , it be possible to circumvent the embryonic lethal phenotype of conventional mtf1 knockout mouse .
previous experiment with this technique reveal that deletion of mtf1 from the liver after birth be no longer lethal under non-stress condition ( 26 ) .
for this study , an inducible , liver - specific mtf1 knockout mouse line be generate to perform a search for mtf - 1 target gene and cadmium - inducible gene in the adult liver .
a number of target gene candidate emerge upon a transcriptome analysis of mock - and cadmium - treat mtf1 conditional knockout mouse and control littermates and several of these be confirm by semiquantitative rt – pcr .
besides the stress - inducible metallothionein gene that be already know a target gene of mtf - 1 , we find that mtf - 1 be important for basal liver expression of the gene for selenoprotein w , muscle 1 ( sepw1 ) as well a for cadmium - induce expression of n - myc downstream regulate gene 1 ( ndrg1 ) and the gene encode cysteine - and glycine - rich protein 1 ( csrp1 ) .
in addition , mtf - 1 appear to repress the expression of solute carrier family 39 , member 10 gene ( slc39a10 ) , which encode a putative metal ion transporter .
in an mtf - 1 - independent transcriptome response , several gene involve in glutathione metabolism be induce .
further study confirm a dual anti-cadmium defense , one via glutathione and another one via mtf - 1 and it target gene , include metallothioneins .
material and method
generation of mtf1 conditional knockout mouse and liver - specific deletion
mtf1 conditional knockout mouse be generate in collaboration with dr michael leviten ( san carlos , ca ) .
two genomic clone contain exon 3 to 6 of mtf1 be use to construct a gene targeting vector for homologous recombination ( supplementary data ) .
a neomycin resistance cassette ( pgk - neo ) flank by two loxp site be clone into the saci site 5 ′ of exon 3 of mtf1 , the third loxp site be clone into the scai site 3 ′ of exon 4 .
a thymidine kinase ( tk ) cassette be insert in the hpai site 3 ′ of exon 6 .
129 e cell be electroporated with the linearize targeting vector , select in the presence of g418 and fiau , and screen for correct integration event by pcr and southern blot analysis .
transient expression of cre recombinase lead to removal of the pgk - neo cassette , and mouse carry the modify mtf1loxp allele be generate by injection of positive clone into c57bl / 6 blastocyst and subsequent cross .
homozygous conditional knockout animal ( mtf1loxp / loxp ) be cross with the cre recombinase transgenic line mx - cre ( a gift from prof. michel aguet ) to obtain an inducible , liver - specific mtf1 knockout line .
the mouse be genotyped by pcr use the follow primer ( microsynth ) : cre recombinase : 5 ′ - ctatccagcaacatttgggccagc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - ccaggttacggatatagttcatgac - 3 ′ , mtf1loxp or wild - type allele : 5 ′ - cacacccagtttgtgtatgtcttc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - cagtcacaagcaaattaccaaacactgcc - 3 ′ .
animal treatment
at 8 week of age , male mtf1loxp / loxp mouse harbor the mx - cre transgene ( mtf1loxp / loxp mx - cre , abbr. : mtf1mx - cre ) and control littermates without transgene ( mtf1loxp / loxp , abbr. : mtf1loxp ) receive four intraperitoneal injection each of 300 µg synthetic double - strand rna polyinosinic – polycytidylic acid [ pi – pc ; sigma ; in a volume of 60 µl phosphate - buffer saline ( pb ) ] at 3 day interval .
only in the case of dna - bind study with mre sequence from mtf - 1 target gene candidate , the control mouse receive no pi – pc injection .
for experiment with metal treatment , mouse receive 2 day after the last pi – pc treatment a subcutaneous ( s.c. ) injection of either 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( 2 mm cdso4 in h2o ; cadmium treatment ) or 10 ml / kg body weight h2o ( mock treatment ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
microarray analysis and data processing
total rna be isolate from liver tissue of pi – pc - induce , mock - or cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse ( n = 3 per genotype and respective treatment ; all male ) essentially a describe by chomczynski and sacchi ( 27 ) .
gene expression analysis be perform in the functional genomics center zurich use genechip® mouse genome 430 2.0 array ( affymetrix ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction and the follow reagent and condition .
cdna be synthesize with superscript ™ double - strand cdna synthesis kit ( invitrogen ) , use 15 µg total rna .
in vitro transcription be perform with bioarray ™ high yield ™ rna transcript labeling kit ( enzo ) and 3.5 to 6 µg of each cdna .
clean - up of both cdna and crna sample be do use genechip® sample clean - up module ( affymetrix ) .
for the automate washing and staining in the affymetrix fluidics station 450 , the protocol eukge - ws2v4_450 be use .
the probe array be scan with the affymetrix g 3000 scanner .
raw data be available at arrayexpress ( , accession number e - mexp - 438 ) .
data analysis be perform with genespring 6.1 software ( silicon genetics ) , apply a significance level p ≤ 0.05 .
furthermore , multiple testing correction be use in addition to obtain cadmium - responsive , mtf - 1 - independent gene .
gene be consider to be differentially express if there be at least a 2-fold difference in expression level of the compare experimental group ( genotype and respective treatment ) .
the result be consider reliable if signal value for the respective gene be score ‘ present ’ at least for all mouse in one experimental group or for two mouse in each of two group .
to screen for the presence of the mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc in the promoter region , the upstream sequence of the respective gene be obtain from the university of california santa cruz ( ucsc ) genome browser database ( ; october / november 2004 ) ( 28 ) .
rt – pcr
all rt – pcrs be perform with qiagen® onestep rt – pcr kit ( qiagen ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction , use 150 – 200 ng dnase i - digest total rna ( rna isolation see microarray analysis ) .
the reaction be carry out use the follow primer : csrp1 : 5 ′ - ttccgatgtgccaagtgtggc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - agtagagagtggacattcagc - 3 ′ , hypoxanthin - guanin - phosphoribosyltransferase ( hprt ) : 5 ′ - gctggtgaaaaggacctctcg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - ccacaggactaggacacctgc - 3 ′ , mtf1 : 5 ′ - gtgacttttgagactgtactgagtg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - catgccaagaaacattgaaggtg - 3 ′ , ndrg1 : 5 ′ - agatacacaacaacgtggagg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - tgtgcgagcggcttcgggggc - 3 ′ , sepw1 : 5 ′ - tagaggcagggtcctgaaagc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - acacctggaaacatggctgcc - 3 ′ , slc39a10 : 5 ′ - gctgtggctggtagtaaaagc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - gtggcatgggatgtaaacagc - 3 ′ .
s1 nuclease mapping of transcript ( s1 analysis )
s1 analysis be perform a previously describe ( 29 ) , use 100 µg dnase i - digest total rna ( rna isolation see microarray analysis ) .
the gel be develop use phosphorimager ( molecular dynamic ) .
s1 analysis be do with the follow 32p - label oligonucleotides : hprt s1 : 5 ′ - tcttcagtctgataaaatctacagtcataggaatggatctatcactatttctattcagtgattacattaaag - 3 ′ , sepw1 s1 : 5 ′ - ttcaaccgggaacacctggaaacatggctgcctgtcttcttgaagtcttgaggtggaaagggaaagcaaagcaggagggttttcccaccc - 3 ′ .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa )
protein be extract from liver tissue with t - per ™ tissue protein extraction reagent ( pierce ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction , use a 1 : 10 ratio of mouse tissue ( mg ) to t - per reagent ( µl ) .
emsa be essentially perform a previously describe ( 10 ) .
all binding reaction be carry out by incubate 2 – 5 fmol 32p - end - label double - strand oligonucleotides with 100 to 130 µg liver protein extract .
for competition experiment , 5 pmol of unlabeled competitor oligonucleotide be add to the binding reaction before addition of the extract .
all emsa gel be develop use phosphorimager ( molecular dynamic ) .
the follow oligonucleotides be anneal and use for the reaction : csrp1 mre1 : 5 ′ - ggaaacaaaacggcgcgcactccggcgc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - ggctgcgc cggagtgcgcgccgttttgt - 3 ′ , csrp1 mre2 : 5 ′ - tgttgtggtgcagtgtgcaaagcctac - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - accagtaggctttgcacactgcaccac - 3 ′ , csrp1 mre3 : 5 ′ - gagatcgccatagggtgcaaagagaag - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - gtgacttctctttgcaccctatggcga - 3 ′ , csrp1 mre4 : 5 ′ - tgtcttattctggagtgcaagttagtc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - aggggactaacttgcactccagaataa - 3 ′ , gal4 : 5 ′ - tccggaggactgtcctccgg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - gccggaggacagtcctccgg - 3 ′ , mred [ mre derive from mouse mt1 promoter ( 10 ) ] : 5 ′ - cgagggagctctgcactccgcccgaaaagtg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - tcgacacttttcgggcggagtgcagagctccctcgagct - 3 ′ , mre - s [ synthetic mre consensus sequence ( 10 ) ] : 5 ′ - cgagggagctctgcacacggcccgaaaagtg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - tcgacacttttcgggccgtgtgcagagctccctcgagct - 3 ′ , ndrg1 mre1 : 5 ′ - cagcccaggcagggtgcagcacgag - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - ccgcctcgtgctgcaccctgcctgg - 3 ′ , ndrg1 mre2 : 5 ′ - cacacgttcgctgcacacgccgcgg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - gggaccgcggcgtgtgcagcgaacg - 3 ′ , ndrg1 mre3 , 4 : 5 ′ - ggagtccttatgcacacgcgcacgagcgcgcacgggcac - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - tggtgtgcccgtgcgcgctcgtgcgcgtgtgcataaggac - 3 ′ , sepw1 mre1 : 5 ′ - gaggcagtcggctgtgcgcacggccccacgctc - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - ctctgagcgtggggccgtgcgcacagccgactgc - 3 ′ , sepw1 mre2 : 5 ′ - atggttttgggggtgcgcagggggtctg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - cgacagaccccctgcgcacccccaaaac - 3 ′ , slc39a10 mre1 : 5 ′ - gaatacacgactgggtgcagccggggtttgg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - ggtaccaaaccccggctgcacccagtcgtgta - 3 ′ , slc39a10 mre2 : 5 ′ - gcggagaggagatgcacacggcactcg - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - cactcgagtgccgtgtgcatctcctct - 3 ′ , specificity protein 1 ( sp1 ) binding sequence ( 10 ) : 5 ′ - cgaggccccgcccag - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ - tcgactgggcggggcctcgagct - 3 ′ .
cell culture
primary embryonic fibroblast be isolate from a 12.5 day old mtf1loxp mouse embryo and grow in dmem supplement with 10 % fetal bovine serum ( icn ) , 100 u / ml penicillin – streptomycin ( gibco brl ) and 2 mm l - glutamine ( gibco brl ) .
100 mm plate with primary cell be transfected with 10 µg of an expression plasmid cod for simian virus 40 ( sv40 ) large t antigen drive by the cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) promoter , use lipofectamine ™ reagent ( invitrogen ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
cell focus be isolate and the immortalize mouse embryonic fibroblast cell line ckoc be derive from one of them .
the mtf1loxp genotype of this line as well a the genomic integration of the t antigen be confirm by pcr .
100 mm plate with these cell be far transfected by the calcium phosphate method ( 30 ) with 19.6 µg of an expression plasmid for cre recombinase drive by the cmv promoter and 0.4 µg of an expression plasmid for the neomycin resistance gene under the control of the tk promoter .
stably transfected cell be select in the presence of 0.4 µg / µl g418 ( calbiochem ) , isolate clone of resistant cell be harvest and grow independently , and the expression of cre recombinase and excision of exon 3 and 4 of mtf1 be analyze by rt – pcr .
the cell line delc19 , delc21 and delc23 with a deletion of mtf1 be choose for further experiment .
cytotoxicity assay
sample of 1 × 104 cell / well be plat in 96 - well tissue culture plate and allow to adhere for 24 h .
the cell be then pre-incubated for 24 h in medium contain 0 , 5 , 10 , 25 or 50 µm l - buthionine - [ s , r ] - sulfoximine ( bso ) ( sigma ) , a drug that inhibit glutathione synthesis ( 31 ) .
later , cell be expose to 0 , 5 , 10 or 20 µm cdcl2 in the specify pre-incubation medium for an additional 24 h .
cytotoxicity be determine by the mtt ( 3 - [ 4 , 5 - dimethylthiazol - 2 - yl ] - 2 , 5 - diphenyl tetrazolium bromid ) - base cell proliferation kit i ( roche ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
result
generation of an inducible , liver - specific mtf1 knockout mouse line
use a homologous recombination strategy , mouse be obtain with a modify mtf1 allele mtf1loxp where exon 3 and 4 , encode four of the six zinc finger of the dna - bind domain , be flank by loxp site ( figure 1a ) .
mouse homozygous for the mtf1loxp allele be far cross with animal of the cre recombinase transgenic line mx - cre .
cre recombinase be express in this line under the control of the mouse mx1 gene promoter , which be inducible by administration of interferon alpha or beta , or synthetic double - strand rna pi – pc ( 32 ) .
cre - mediate deletion be report to be complete in the liver , while vary in other tissue , range from 94 % in spleen to 8 % in brain ( 32 ) .
after cre - mediate deletion of exon 3 and 4 , which result in a frameshift and premature translation stop , no functional mtf - 1 protein can be produce .
for induction of cre recombinase , mtf1 conditional knockout mouse harbor the mx - cre transgene ( mtf1mx - cre ) receive four intraperitoneal pi – pc injection at 3 day interval ( pi – pc induction ) ; control littermates without transgene ( mtf1loxp ) receive similar injection .
use rt – pcrs ( figure 1b ) , a shorten product be obtain with rna from mtf1mx - cre liver , indicate a successful excision of exon 3 and 4 of mtf1 in these animal .
on close examination , a very faint band similar in size to full - length signal be also observe in those mouse , probably due to a low amount of residual full - length mtf1 mrna .
the level of functional mtf - 1 protein be examine by emsa ( figure 1c ) : mtf - 1 protein – dna complex be detectable with liver protein extract from an mtf1loxp control mouse , but no functional mre - bind protein be observe with an mtf1mx - cre sample .
thus , deletion of exon 3 and 4 of mtf1 in the liver of mtf1mx - cre mouse be virtually complete .
all examine liver - specific knockout mouse be viable under laboratory condition and appear normal .
mtf - 1 target gene search
for the identification of mtf - 1 target gene , we compare the liver transcript profile of mouse with and without functional mtf1 gene that have be mock - treat or expose to cadmium ( n = 3 per genotype and respective treatment ) .
in a first screen , the transcript be analyze with a differential display - base method , call amplification of double - strand cdna end restriction fragment ( adder ) ( 33 ) .
thereby an overwhelming number of signal be obtain for the two stress - inducible metallothioneins ( mt1 and mt2 ) , due to the abundance of their transcript both in mock - treat and especially in cadmium - treat liver that harbor a functional mtf - 1 gene ( data not show ) .
this result confirm the importance of mtf - 1 for both basal and metal - induce expression of metallothionein gene .
in a second approach , the gene expression profile in liver of the above mention mouse be compare by affymetrix genechip ® mouse genome 430 2.0 array ( table 1 ) .
when analyze the probe array data of liver from mock - treat mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse , an at least 2-fold , reliable downregulation of expression be detect in mtf1mx - cre liver for 13 affymetrix genechip ® probe set correspond to 11 characterize gene ( table 1 , a ) .
seven of these gene contain one or more mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc within a segment of 1000 bp upstream of the transcription start .
for 26 probe set correspond to 24 different characterize gene , a 2-fold or high , reliable upregulation be detect in mtf1mx - cre liver ( table 1 , b ) ; 17 of these 24 gene contain mre core consensus sequence in the upstream region .
the data set for liver of cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse reveal an at least 2-fold , reliable downregulation in mtf1mx - cre liver for 21 probe set correspond to 16 different characterize gene ( table 1 , c ) ; 10 of these contain mre core consensus sequence in their upstream region .
for 9 probe set correspond to 9 different characterize gene , an at least 2-fold , reliable upregulation be detect ( table 1 , d ) ; five of them contain mre motif .
in addition to characterize gene , est and riken cdna sequence be also find in the comparison of mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp liver to be differentially express ( supplementary table 1 ) .
downregulation of mt1 and mt2 be detect in mtf1mx - cre liver for both condition ( though the level of significance for the downregulation of mt1 in mock - treat animal be above 0.05 ; data not show ) .
for all mtf - 1 target gene characterize so far , such a mt1 , mt2 and znt1 , mtf - 1 exert it transcriptional activation activity via standard mre sequence locate proximal to the transcription start ( 4 , 5 , 8 , 18 , 19 ) .
even a specific search for mtf - 1 binding site by selection from a pool of double - strand oligonucleotides with random sequence yield no new binding motif for mtf - 1 in addition to the known mres ( 34 ) .
thus , an mre sequence be to date the only indication for a direct mtf - 1 target gene , and four mre - contain target gene candidate be far analyze .
basal expression of sepw1 depend on mtf - 1
sepw1 be find in microarray analysis to be significantly downregulated in liver from cadmium - and mock - treat mtf1mx - cre mouse ( table 1 , a and c ) .
sepw1 be a selenocysteine - contain protein that bind glutathione ( 35 ) and be think to act a an antioxidant in vivo ( 36 ) .
sepw1 expression in liver of pi – pc - induce , mock - or cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse be far analyze by semiquantitative rt – pcrs and s1 analysis ( figure 2a and b ) .
in accordance with microarray data a slight , if any , upregulation of sepw1 transcription be observe in liver from mtf1loxp mouse upon cadmium treatment .
the basal level be reduce in liver from mock - and cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre mouse , indicate that mtf - 1 be important for the basal expression of sepw1 .
three mre core consensus sequence be find in the region upstream of the mouse sepw1 transcription start ( figure 2c ) .
two of them in opposite orientation overlap almost completely proximal to the transcription start ( mre1 , − 40 bp ) , the third one be locate far upstream ( mre2 , − 527 bp ) .
specific binding of mtf - 1 to sepw1 mre1 but not mre2 oligonucleotide be observe in emsa with liver protein extract from an mtf1loxp control mouse ( figure 2d ) .
a a control , no binding to mre1 be detect with extract from a pi – pc - induce mtf1mx - cre mouse , confirm that the bandshift be indeed dependent on the presence of mtf - 1 .
cadmium response of ndrg1 depend on mtf - 1
ndrg1 be significantly downregulated in microarrays of liver transcript from cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre mouse compare to similarly treat mtf1loxp control mouse ( table 1 , c ) .
ndrg1 probably have some role in stress response since various stimulus , include hypoxia and nickel compound , activate expression of rodent ndrg1 and / or it human ortholog ( 37 – 40 ) .
the ndrg1 microarray result be confirm with semiquantitative rt – pcrs ( figure 3a ) : for mtf1loxp control liver , a clear increase of ndrg1 expression be observe after cadmium exposure ; in liver from mtf1mx - cre mouse , this cadmium response be not detectable , while basal expression be similar to control .
this indicate that cadmium - induce expression of ndrg1 depend on mtf - 1 .
five mre core consensus sequence be locate upstream of the mouse ndrg1 transcription start ( figure 3b ) .
four of them be cluster ( mre1 to mre4 , − 138 to − 332 bp ) , the fifth one be locate far upstream ( mre5 , − 883 bp ) .
emsa be perform to test whether mtf - 1 be interact with some or all of the four proximal mre sequence ( figure 3c ) .
separate oligonucleotides be test for mre1 and mre2 , whereas one oligonucleotide span both sequence be use for mre3 and mre4 ( mre3 , 4 ) .
no complex be see with mre1 , but specific mtf - 1 complex be observe for both the mre2 and mre3 , 4 oligonucleotides with liver protein extract from an mtf1loxp mouse .
a expect , no bandshift be observe with protein extract from a mouse lack mtf - 1 ( mtf1mx - cre ) .
cadmium response of csrp1 depend on mtf - 1
csrp1 be find in microarray analysis to be significantly downregulated in cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre mouse compare to mtf1loxp mouse ( table 1 , c ) .
csrp1 be a member of the evolutionary conserve crp family of protein that have be implicate in myogenesis and cytoskeletal remodeling ( 41 , 42 ) .
semiquantitative rt – pcrs confirm the microarray result , namely , that csrp1 expression be elevate in mtf1loxp liver upon cadmium exposure ( figure 4a ) .
in contrast , no cadmium response be detectable in liver from mtf1mx - cre mouse , suggest that mtf - 1 be require for cadmium induction of csrp1 .
three mre core consensus sequence be find upstream of the csrp1 transcription start ( mre2 to mre4 , − 56 to − 366 bp ) , one be find immediately downstream ( mre1 , + 7 bp ; figure 4b ) .
specific binding of mtf - 1 be observe with emsa for mre2 oligonucleotide and protein extract from an mtf1loxp liver , but not an mtf1mx - cre liver extract lack mtf - 1 , confirm the participation of mtf - 1 in the complex ( figure 4c ) .
mtf - 1 inhibit expression of slc39a10
slc39a10 be detect in microarray analysis to be significantly upregulated in liver from both mock - and cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre mouse compare to control animal ( table 1 , b and d ) .
slc39 protein be member of the zrt - and irt - like protein ( zip ) family of metal ion transporter that transport , with no known exception , metal ion substrate across cellular membrane into the cytoplasm ( 43 , 44 ) .
in accordance with microarray data , semiquantitative rt – pcrs show a downregulation of slc39a10 expression in liver of mtf1loxp mouse upon cadmium exposure .
in sample from mtf1mx - cre mouse , the basal expression be significantly increase ; cadmium treatment still result in a decrease of slc39a10 expression ( figure 5a ) .
it can not be judge by this experiment whether the degree of cadmium - induce reduction of slc39a10 transcription be identical for mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse or low in the absence of mtf - 1 .
in microarray analysis , the degree of the downregulation be either comparable to the one in control liver or low , depend on the consider affymetrix genechip ® probe set ( data not show ) .
the result indicate that mtf - 1 be involve in repression of the basal expression of slc39a10 .
it might also participate in the cadmium response of this gene , but it be apparently not exclusively responsible .
one mre core consensus sequence be find just upstream of the mouse slc39a10 transcription start ( mre1 , − 21 bp ) , another one directly downstream ( mre2 , + 17 bp ; figure 5b ) .
specific binding of mtf - 1 be observe in emsa analysis for mre2 with liver protein extract from an mtf1loxp but not from an mtf1mx - cre mouse , while no binding be detect with mre1 ( figure 5c ) .
cadmium - responsive , mtf - 1 - independent gene
finally , we also identify a number of cadmium - responsive gene that be independent of mtf - 1 presence , by compare the probe array data of all cadmium - treat mouse with the data of all mock - treat mouse , irrespective of the genotype ( table 2 ) .
an at least 2-fold , reliable upregulation be observe after cadmium exposure for 31 probe set correspond to 21 different characterize gene ( table 2 , a ) .
for 2 probe set correspond to 2 characterize gene , an at least 2-fold downregulation be detect ( table 2 , b ) .
several gene involve in the metabolism of the antioxidant glutathione be find to be upregulated by cadmium exposure , namely the gene encode the catalytic subunit of glutamate - cysteine ligase ( gclc ) that be the rate limit enzyme in de novo synthesis of glutathione ( 45 ) ; glutathione reductase 1 ( gsr ) , the reduce enzyme for oxidize glutathione ( 45 ) ; and glutathione - s - transferase , mu 4 ( gstm4 ) , which be a member of the glutathione - s - transferase supergene family of detoxification enzyme ( 45 ) .
in all of these case , induction be confirm by semiquantitative rt – pcrs ( data not show ) .
gclc , also refer to a heavy chain subunit of gamma - glutamylcysteine synthetase ( ggcs - hc ) , have be discuss previously a a target gene of mtf - 1 ( 6 ) .
our expression data indicate that gclc be induce by cadmium but , at least in the adult mouse liver , not dependent on mtf - 1 .
to analyze the role of the glutathione system in the cellular cadmium response , mouse embryonic fibroblast with and without functional mtf1 be treat with cadmium in combination with bso , a specific inhibitor of glutamate - cysteine ligase ( 31 ) , and cell viability be assess by a colorimetric assay base on the tetrazolium salt mtt ( figure 6 ) .
increase concentration of bso or cadmium alone be to some extent cytotoxic for the examine cell line .
treatment with both bso and cadmium result in an enhance lethality particularly for the cell without functional mtf1 , indicate that a depletion of glutathione together with a lack of mtf1 impair an efficient anti-cadmium defense .
thus , adequate glutathione supply as well a mtf - 1 and it target gene be essential for the survival of the cell under cadmium stress .
besides gene relate to the glutathione pathway , several other stress - relate gene be upregulated upon cadmium exposure , include gene for thioredoxin reductase 1 ( txnrd1 ) , one of the reduce enzyme of the antioxidant thioredoxin ( 46 ) ; kdel endoplasmic reticulum protein retention receptor 2 ( kdelr2 ) participate in er stress response ( 47 ) ; and the anti-apoptotic bcl2 - associate athanogene 3 ( bag3 ) involve in stress - induce apoptosis ( 48 ) .
discussion
in this study , a virtually complete deletion of mtf1 in the liver of adult , pi – pc - induce mtf1mx - cre mouse do not detectably affect the phenotype of the respective mouse under non-stress condition , confirm that mtf - 1 be dispensable in the adult liver ( 26 ) , in contrast to it essential role in embryonic liver development ( 23 ) .
the comparison of gene expression in liver of mock - or cadmium - treat mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse reveal several mtf - 1 target gene candidate .
transcript of the two stress - responsive metallothionein gene mt1 and mt2 be severely reduce , in support of a crucial role of mtf - 1 for both basal and metal - induce expression of metallothioneins ( 4 , 6 ) .
one of the newly find target gene be sepw1 .
the exact molecular function of sepw1 protein be unknown to date , but a role a antioxidant have be propose due to it ability to bind glutathione ( 35 ) .
in accordance with this , ectopic expression of mouse sepw1 render cell resistant to hydrogen peroxide , and this resistance be dependent on it bind glutathione ( 36 ) .
furthermore , amantana et al. ( 49 ) show that expression of a reporter gene fuse to a rat sepw1 promoter fragment can be induce in rat glial cell by copper and zinc , but not cadmium .
this response be dependent on an overlapping - inverted mre sequence locate proximal to the rat sepw1 transcription start ( 49 ) , even though initial study fail to demonstrate mtf - 1 binding to that sequence ( 50 ) .
our expression and dna - bind study strongly suggest that mtf - 1 be important for the basal expression of mouse sepw1 by bind to the correspond overlapping - inverted mre sequence .
ndrg1 , another interesting mtf - 1 target gene be name n - myc downstream regulate gene 1 follow the discovery that the transcription factor n - myc repress the expression of mouse ndrg1 ( 51 ) .
transcription of ndrg1 and / or it human ortholog be induce by different physiological and cell stress condition , such a androgen , nickel compound , dna damage and hypoxia ( 37 – 40 , 52 , 53 ) .
in addition , the protein be overexpressed in human cancer of many tissue , such a lung , liver , brain , breast , kidney and skin ( 40 ) .
although ndrg1 and especially it human ortholog have be quite intensely study , it function remain unclear ; however , the induction by stimulus like nickel and hypoxia suggest an involvement in the cell stress response .
such a role be strongly endorse by our finding that ndrg1 gene expression be also induce by cadmium , and that mtf - 1 play a crucial role in this induction .
in the case of csrp1 , expression analysis and dna - bind study indicate that mtf - 1 be require for cadmium induction by bind to an mre upstream of the transcription start .
study with human , avian and chicken csrp1 have show that this protein be localize at adhesion plaque and in association with filamentous actin , and interact with the adhesion plaque protein zyxin , as well a the actin - cross-link protein alpha - actinin ( 54 – 57 ) .
the ability to bind these partner suggest a role in cytoskeletal organization ( 58 ) .
exposure of culture cell to cadmium cause a decrease in , and destruction of , cellular contact protein and the actin cytoskeleton ( 59 ) .
in the proximal tubule cell of the rat kidney , a partial loss of actin and the actin - bundle protein villin be observe upon cadmium treatment , as well a the derangement and depolymerization of microtubule ( 60 ) .
assume that csrp1 be important for the organization of cytoskeletal element in the mouse , it upregulation by cadmium might protect the organism from damage of the cytoskeleton .
such a mechanism would expand the role of mtf - 1 in stress response .
our expression study also suggest that mtf - 1 repress basal transcription of slc39a10 , in contrast to it role a activator for the expression of other target gene like mt1 , mt2 , and znt1 ( 4 , 19 ) .
slc39a10 be one of 14 mouse slc39 member , which belong to the zip family of metal ion transporter ( 43 , 44 ) .
all member of the zip family characterize so far increase intracellular cytoplasmic metal ion concentration by promote extracellular and vesicular ion transport into the cytoplasm .
zip protein have be report to be transporter of zinc , iron , manganese and / or cadmium ( 44 , 61 – 63 ) .
although slc39a10 be largely uncharacterized ( 44 ) , it be refer to in several database a putative zinc transporter .
it have be previously show that mtf - 1 be important for both basal expression and metal induction of the mouse znt1 gene ( 19 ) .
znt protein represent a different family of transporter that reduce intracellular cytoplasmic zinc by promote zinc efflux from cell or into intracellular vesicle .
thus , member of the znt and zip family with zinc a predominant substrate have opposite role in cellular zinc homeostasis ( 43 ) .
assume that slc39a10 be indeed a zinc transporter , mtf - 1 would control expression of two zinc transporter with antagonistic function , namely , znt1 and slc39a10 .
specific binding of mtf - 1 be observe for an mre locate just downstream of the slc39a10 transcription start .
in a simple model , such a binding could interfere with the accessibility of the transcriptional start site for rna polymerase ii and / or general transcription factor , thus prevent transcription initiation of the gene .
indeed , such a mechanism have be describe in yeast for the zinc - responsive activator protein 1 ( zap1 ) and it target gene , zinc - regulate transporter 2 ( zrt2 ) ( 64 ) .
however , the inhibition of slc39a10 expression by mtf - 1 may well be more complex than a competition for promoter binding .
independent of mtf - 1 , cadmium treatment also lead to downregulation of slc39a10 transcript , suggest that some other factor be mediate this response .
a previous target gene search for mtf - 1 with mouse embryo of conventional mtf1 knockout phenotype reveal , besides metallothionein gene , the multifunctional alpha - fetoprotein ( afp ) and the liver - enrich transcription factor ccaat / enhancer binding protein alpha ( cebpa ) a prime candidate ( 65 ) .
after an early onset during hepatogenesis , afp expression be repress postnatally and replace by albumin ( 66 ) .
thus , our adult mtf1mx - cre mouse lack mtf - 1 be not suitable to analyze afp expression .
cebpa be express in the adult liver as well a in other tissue ( 67 ) , but the present microarray data reveal no significant expression difference in liver from adult mtf1loxp and mtf1mx - cre mouse ( data not show ) .
therefore , mtf - 1 may affect cebpa expression only during embryonal development , perhaps in combination with as yet unidentified factor .
the present study confirm and extend the role of mtf - 1 a an important stress response regulator .
we have identify and preliminarily characterize four target gene of mtf - 1 in the adult mouse liver : in the case of sepw1 , mtf - 1 be require to maintain basal expression , support a role of mouse mtf - 1 in oxidative stress response .
in addition , mtf - 1 contribute to the cadmium - induce expression of ndrg1 and csrp1 .
furthermore , mtf - 1 help to repress the basal expression of slc39a10 , in contrast to it role a transcriptional activator for gene like mt1 , mt2 or znt1 .
thus the same transcription factor apparently serve a an activator or repressor , depend on the target gene .
the comparison of liver gene expression of cadmium - and mock - treat mouse also reveal a number of gene that be responsive to cadmium exposure , independent of the presence or absence of mtf - 1 .
evidence suggest that the production of reactive oxygen specie be a major effect of acute cadmium toxicity ( 68 , 69 ) , and exposure of culture cell or animal to cadmium be associated with depletion of reduce glutathione , lipid peroxidation and dna damage ( 70 – 73 ) .
oxidative stress and the subsequent restoration of cellular homeostasis have be show to induce the expression of gene encode acute - phase protein and antioxidant enzyme ( 74 ) .
in mammal , cadmium tend to accumulate in the kidney and liver a a cadmium - metallothionein complex that have an extremely slow turnover ( 75 , 76 ) .
furthermore , metallothioneins provide protection against oxidative stress ( 1 , 17 ) .
in addition to metallothioneins , glutathione be postulate a a first line of defense against cadmium toxicity ( 77 ) .
glutathione efficiently complexes cadmium ( 78 ) and scavenge free radical and other reactive oxygen specie directly , and indirectly via enzymatic reaction ( 45 ) .
in such reaction , glutathione be oxidize and have to be regenerate by glutathione reductase .
also , glutathione - s - transferase mediate the conjugation of various electrophiles to glutathione .
the observe cadmium - induce upregulation of gclc , gsr and gstm4 support the importance of glutathione in the cellular cadmium response .
the enhance sensitivity to cadmium toxicity that we find for mouse embryonic fibroblast upon a combination of mtf1 deletion and depletion of glutathione far corroborate the importance of mtf - 1 and it target gene as well a reduce glutathione for an efficient anti-cadmium defense .
our data provide strong evidence for at least two branch of cellular anti-cadmium defense , one via mtf - 1 and it target gene , notably metallothioneins , the other via glutathione , with an apparent overlap in sepw1 .
supplementary data
supplementary data be available at nar online .
supplementary material
[ supplementary material ]
acknowledgement
we be indebted to the functional genomics center zurich ( zurich , ch ) for financial as well a technical support ( thanks especially to andrea patrignani , dr ulrich wagner , and dr hubert rehrauer for their assistance in data generation and evaluation ) , and to dr michael leviten ( san carlos , ca ) for the help in generate mtf1 conditional knockout mouse .
we also thank prof. ueli schibler ( geneva , ch ) for his advice on the adder technique , prof. michel aguet ( epalinges - lausanne , ch ) for the gift of mx - cre mouse , dr george hausmann and dr michael fetchko for critical reading of the manuscript , and fritz ochsenbein for prepare the figure .
fund to pay the open access publication charge for this article be provide by the kanton zurich .
conflict of interest statement .
none declare .
figure and table
figure 1
deletion of mtf1 in adult mouse liver .
( a ) generation of mtf1 conditional knockout mouse .
the target allele be obtain by homologous recombination of wild - type ( wt ) allele and targeting vector in e cell .
removal of the neomycin cassette ( neo ) by cre recombinase lead to the conditional knockout allele mtf1loxp .
conditional cre - mediate deletion of exon 3 and 4 ( mtf1δ ) result in loss of function via loss of an essential part of the dna - bind domain and the generation of a new stop codon right after exon 2 .
exon 3 to 7 of mtf1 be indicate by grey box , loxp site by black triangle .
tk , thymidine kinase cassette .
restriction enzyme : san , sandi ; b , bbvci ; s , srfi ; h , hpai .
the hpai site indicate by the cross h be lose during the cloning procedure for the targeting vector .
( b ) rt – pcrs with total liver rna from pi – pc - induce male mtf1mx - cre or mtf1loxp mouse .
the use primer pair result in product of 589 bp and 218 bp with full - length mrna and mrna without exon 3 and 4 , respectively .
( c ) emsa with liver protein extract of a pi – pc - induce male mtf1mx - cre or mtf1loxp mouse .
mtf - 1 protein – dna complex formation be test with 32p - label mre consensus oligonucleotide mre - s .
specificity of binding be verify with excess of unlabeled competitor mred or unrelated gal4 oligonucleotide ; sp1 bandshifts with 32p - label sp1 consensus oligonucleotide be include a a loading control .
figure 2
sepw1 basal expression depend on mtf - 1 .
( a ) semiquantitative rt – pcrs for sepw1 mrna use total liver rna from pi – pc - induce male mtf1mx - cre or mtf1loxp mouse .
the animal have obtain either mock s.c. injection ( − cd ) or s.c. injection with 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( + cd ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
rt – pcrs for hprt mrna be use a internal control to adjust the amount of total rna use .
( b ) s1 analysis for sepw1 mrna with rna describe in ( a ) , use a 32p - label sepw1 s1 probe .
a 32p - label s1 probe for hprt mrna be use to adjust the amount of rna use .
( c ) mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc ( bold letter ) and flanking sequence find in a region of 1000 bp upstream from sepw1 transcription start ; the position of each core sequence be indicate .
( d ) emsa with liver protein extract of a male mtf1loxp or a pi – pc - induce , male mtf1mx - cre mouse , both mock - treat .
mtf - 1 protein – dna complex formation be test with 32p - label sepw1 mre1 or mre2 oligonucleotide , respectively .
specificity of binding be verify with excess of unlabeled competitor mred or unrelated gal4 oligonucleotide .
32p - label mre - s be include to indicate the position of an mtf - 1 - dna complex ; bandshifts for the common transcription factor sp1 with 32p - label sp1 consensus oligonucleotide be obtain a protein loading control .
figure 3
cadmium response of ndrg1 depend on mtf - 1 .
( a ) semiquantitative rt – pcrs for ndrg1 mrna use total liver rna from pi – pc - induce male mtf1mx - cre or mtf1loxp mouse .
the animal have obtain either mock s.c. injection ( − cd ) or s.c. injection with 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( + cd ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
rt – pcrs for hprt mrna be use a internal control to adjust the amount of total rna use .
( b ) mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc ( bold letter ) and flanking sequence find in a region of 1000 bp upstream from ndrg1 transcription start ; the position of each core sequence be indicate .
( c ) emsa with liver protein extract of a male mtf1loxp or a pi – pc - induce , male mtf1mx - cre mouse , both mock - treat .
mtf - 1 protein – dna complex formation be test with 32p - label ndrg1 mre1 or mre2 oligonucleotide , or a 32p - label oligonucleotide include both mre3 and mre4 ( mre3 , 4 ) .
specificity of binding be verify with excess of unlabeled competitor mred or unrelated gal4 oligonucleotide .
32p - label mre - s be include to indicate the position of an mtf - 1 - dna complex ; sp1 bandshifts with 32p - label sp1 consensus oligonucleotide be obtain a protein loading control .
figure 4
cadmium response of csrp1 depend on mtf - 1 .
( a ) semiquantitative rt – pcrs for csrp1 mrna use total liver rna from pi – pc - induce male mtf1mx - cre or mtf1loxp mouse .
the animal have obtain either mock s.c. injection ( − cd ) or s.c. injection with 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( + cd ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
rt – pcrs for hprt mrna be use a internal control to adjust the amount of total rna use .
( b ) mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc ( bold letter ) and flanking sequence find in a region of 1000 bp upstream from csrp1 transcription start ; the position of each core sequence be indicate .
( c ) emsa with liver protein extract of a male mtf1loxp or a pi – pc - induce , male mtf1mx - cre mouse , both mock - treat .
mtf - 1 protein – dna complex formation be test with 32p - label csrp1 mre1 , mre2 , mre3 or mre4 oligonucleotide , respectively .
specificity of binding be verify with excess of unlabeled competitor mred or unrelated gal4 oligonucleotide .
32p - label mre - s be include to indicate the position of an mtf - 1 – dna complex ; sp1 bandshifts with 32p - label sp1 consensus oligonucleotide be obtain a protein loading control .
figure 5
mtf - 1 repress basal expression of slc39a10 .
( a ) semiquantitative rt – pcrs for slc39a10 mrna use total liver rna from pi – pc - induce male mtf1mx - cre or mtf1loxp mouse .
the animal have obtain either mock s.c. injection ( − cd ) or s.c. injection with 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( + cd ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
rt – pcrs for hprt mrna be use a internal control to adjust the amount of total rna use .
( b ) mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc ( bold letter ) and flanking sequence find in a region of 1000 bp upstream from slc39a10 transcription start ; the position of each core sequence be indicate .
( c ) emsa with liver protein extract of a male mtf1loxp or a pi – pc - induce , male mtf1mx - cre mouse , both mock - treat .
mtf - 1 protein – dna complex formation be test with 32p - label slc39a10 mre1 or mre2 oligonucleotide , respectively .
specificity of binding be verify with excess of unlabeled competitor mred or unrelated gal4 oligonucleotide .
32p - label mre - s be include to indicate the position of an mtf - 1 – dna complex ; sp1 bandshifts with 32p - label sp1 consensus oligonucleotide be obtain a protein loading control .
figure 6
cell with reduce glutathione level that also lack mtf - 1 be hypersensitive to cadmium .
the viability of cell be assess with the so - call mtt assay .
mouse embryonic fibroblast with ( ckoc ) and without ( delc19 , delc21 and delc23 ) functional mtf1 be compare .
cell be pre-incubated in medium contain 0 , 5 , 10 , 25 or 50 µm bso for 24 h and far expose to 0 , 5 , 10 or 20 µm cdcl2 ( cd ) in the specify pre-incubation medium for an additional 24 h .
result be express a mean value ± sd ( n = 3 ) normalize to the respective value of untreated cell .
table 1
comparison of liver gene expression for pi – pc - induce mtf1mx - cre and mtf1loxp mouse ( up - or downregulation at least 2-fold , p ≤ 0.05 )
the animal have obtain either mock s.c. injection ( − cd ) or s.c. injection with 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( + cd ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
the expression value for each gene be give a mean value of three animal per group , normalize to the mean value of group mtf1loxp − cd ( relative activity ) .
grey shading indicate the two group of animal compare , relative activity for the other two group be show for a complete overview .
the number of mre core consensus sequence tgcrcnc in a region of 1000 bp upstream from the annotate transcription start be indicate .
a only incomplete region up to − 1000 bp from transcription start be available in database .
b mean value of two independent affymetrix probe set .
c mean value of four independent affymetrix probe set .
table 2
comparison of liver gene expression for cadmium - and mock - treat mouse ( up - or downregulation at least 2-fold , p ≤ 0.05 )
the animal have obtain either mock s.c. injection ( − cd ) or s.c. injection with 20 µmol / kg body weight cdso4 ( + cd ) 6 h before sacrifice them .
the expression value for each gene be give a mean value of three animal per group , normalize to the mean value of group mtf1loxp − cd ( relative activity ) .
a mean value of three independent affymetrix probe set .
b mean value of six independent affymetrix probe set .
c mean value of two independent affymetrix probe set .
ranbp2 modulate cox11 and hexokinase i activity and haploinsufficiency of ranbp2 cause deficit in glucose metabolism
abstract
the ran - bind protein 2 ( ranbp2 ) be a large multimodular and pleiotropic protein .
several molecular partner with distinct function interact specifically with selective module of ranbp2 have be identify .
yet , the significance of these interaction with ranbp2 and the genetic and physiological role ( s ) of ranbp2 in a whole - animal model remain elusive .
here , we report the identification of two novel partner of ranbp2 and a novel physiological role of ranbp2 in a mouse model .
ranbp2 associate in vitro and in vivo and colocalizes with the mitochondrial metallochaperone , cox11 , and the pacemaker of glycolysis , hexokinase type i ( hki ) via it leucine - rich domain .
the leucine - rich domain of ranbp2 also exhibit strong chaperone activity toward intermediate and mature folding specie of cox11 support a chaperone role of ranbp2 in the cytosol during cox11 biogenesis .
cox11 partially colocalizes with hki , thus support additional and distinct role in cell function .
cox11 be a strong inhibitor of hki , and ranbp2 suppress the inhibitory activity of cox11 over hki .
to probe the physiological role of ranbp2 and it role in hki function , a mouse model harbor a genetically disrupt ranbp2 locus be generate .
ranbp2 − / − be embryonically lethal , and haploinsufficiency of ranbp2 in an inbred strain cause a pronounced decrease of hki and atp level selectively in the central nervous system .
inbred ranbp2 + / − mouse also exhibit deficit in growth rate and glucose catabolism without impairment of glucose uptake and gluconeogenesis .
these phenotype be accompany by a decrease in the electrophysiological response of photosensory and postreceptoral neuron .
hence , ranbp2 and it partner emerge a critical modulators of neuronal hki , glucose catabolism , energy homeostasis , and target for metabolic , aging disorder and allied neuropathy .
synopsis
the ran - bind protein 2 ( ranbp2 ) be a large protein with several domain .
although several protein partner be find to interact with selective domain of ranbp2 , none to this date be find toward it large leucine - rich domain ( ld ) .
cell - base experiment support several role of ranbp2 in cell function , such a the production of functional protein , control of protein trafficking between the nuclear and cytosol compartment , and control of multiple facet underlie cell division .
still , the genetic and physiological implication of the interaction between ranbp2 and it partner and of the function of ranbp2 in a whole - animal model remain elusive .
the author report the identification of two novel mitochondrial partner of the ld of ranbp2 , cox11 and hexokinase type i ( hki ) ; and with multidisciplinary approach probe the role of ranbp2 and it ld on cox11 , hki , and function ally to these .
the author find that ranbp2 exhibit chaperone activity toward hki and cox11 .
ranbp2 and cox11 profoundly modulate hki activity .
moreover , partial loss - of - function of ranbp2 in a mouse model induce deficit in growth rate and breakdown of glucose , promote the down - regulation of hki and atp level selectively in the central nervous system , and impair visual function .
these finding support a critical role of ranbp2 and it partner in metabolic process and ally disease state .
introduction
the ranbp2 / nup358 be a unique vertebrate and large scaffold protein comprise of multiple structural and functional domain [ 1 – 4 ] .
several role of ranbp2 have emerge that implicate ranbp2 in nucleocytoplasmic trafficking [ 3 , 5 ] , protein biogenesis [ 6 , 7 ] , the formation of the mitotic spindle , assembly of the nuclear envelope [ 8 ] , and the integration of the nuclear envelope breakdown with kinetochore formation and maturation during early mitotic progression [ 9 ] .
the specific interaction of ranbp2 with a diverse set of partner likely reflect a pleiotropic role of ranbp2 in cell function , possibly through the integration of multiple pathway .
on the other hand , the cell ( tissue ) - selective interaction of ranbp2 with some of it partner may also impart cell - restricted role to ranbp2 .
for example , the ran - bind domain rbdn = 1 - 4 of ranbp2 associate with the nuclear import co-receptor , importin - β [ 10 , 11 ] , and antibody against ranbp2 inhibit the nuclear import pathway in hela cell [ 3 ] ; but such a role seem dispensable in xenopus oocyte [ 12 ] .
in addition , the combination of the c - terminal domain , rbd4 and cy ( of ranbp2 ) , associate with a subset of g protein - couple receptor , the red / green opsin , express in photosensory neuron and enhance opsin functional production [ 6 , 7 ] , while the interaction of the kbd of ranbp2 with a subset of the conventional microtubule - base motor protein , the kinesins , kif5b and kif5c , occur selectively in the central nervous system ( cns ) [ 13 ] .
a diverse set of additional molecular partner , each associate specifically with a selective domain of ranbp2 , be likely to impart and integrate additional role to ranbp2 .
for example , the cyclophilin - like domain ( cld ) , the internal repeat ( w1w2 / ir ) , and zinc - finger rich ( znf ) domain of ranbp2 associate specifically with component of the 19 cap of the proteasome [ 14 ] , the e2 sumo - 1 - conjugate enzyme ( ubc9 ) [ 15 ] , and the nuclear export receptor , crm1 / exportin - 1 [ 16 ] , respectively .
ranbp2 itself be also find to exhibit sumo1 e3 ligase activity [ 17 ] , support a direct link between ranbp2 - mediated sumo - 1 substrate modification and relocation of sumo - 1 modify cytosolic substrate ( e.g. , rangap ) to the cytosolic face of the nuclear pore complex ( npc ) [ 18 ] .
finally , ranbp2 be also find to localize prominently to the mitochondrion - rich ellipsoid subcellular compartment of photosensory neuron [ 19 ] and to rangtpase - restrict focus along cytoplasmic track [ 19 ] , in addition to it localization at cytoplasmic fibril emanate from nuclear pore [ 2 , 3 , 10 , 12 , 19 ] .
emerge evidence support that the cns - selective effect of ranbp2 may also underlie the pathogenesis of certain neuropathy .
parkin be ubiquitously express and interact with the ubc9 - interact domain of ranbp2 [ 20 ] .
this promote the ubiquitination and degradation of ranbp2 [ 20 ] , possibly via the interaction of the cld domain of ranbp2 with the 19 cap subunit of the proteasome [ 14 ] .
interestingly , the small yeast ran - bind protein 1 ( ranbp1 ) , yrb1p , with strong homology to the ran - bind domain of ranbp2 , be also require for cell - cycle regulate protein degradation [ 21 ] .
parkin , like ranbp2 [ 17 ] , have e3 - ligase activity [ 22 – 24 ] ; and loss - of - function of parkin lead to early onset autosomal recessive juvenile parkinsonism [ 25 ] .
while the dopaminergic neuronal - restrict effect of mutation in parkin be not understood [ 25 ] , parkin − / − mouse exhibit mitochondrial dysfunction and energy and growth deficit , and a fraction of parkin localize to the cytoplasmic face of the mitochondrion , where together with other partner be think to promote the degradation of selective mitochondrial substrate and to exert a neuroprotective function [ 26 – 29 ] .
these data suggest that deficit in ranbp2 and parkin may share ( patho ) physiological pathway and support a multifaceted role of ranbp2 .
yet clear function of ranbp2 in animal and cell physiology remain elusive .
here , we report on the identification and function of two novel partner of ranbp2 , cox11 and hexokinase type i ( hki ) , which interact with a large and orphan domain of ranbp2 , the leucine - rich domain ( ld ) ; and on the outcome of partial loss - of - function of ranbp2 on hki , animal physiology , and glucose / energy metabolism .
result
the ld of ranbp2 interact with cox11 and hki
the ld of ranbp2 ( figure 1a ) be a large and orphan domain of ~ 700 residue ( ~ 80 kda ) , for which no molecular partner have be identify until this date .
brain and retina yeast two - hybrid library be screen with ld .
cox11 be identify a a partner to this domain ( figure 1b and 1c ) .
cox11 be a metallochaperone implicate in cytochrome c oxidase assembly [ 30 , 31 ] .
structure - function analysis of the interaction between mcox11 , ld of ranbp2 , and subdomains thereof , with quantitative yeast two - hybrid assay [ 32 ] , show optimal interaction between the intact ld and cox11 protein ( figure 1c ) .
pull - down assay of retinal extract with glutathione s - transferase ( gst ) - ld precipitate a sodium dodecyl sulfate - resistant dimer isoform of cox11 ( figure 1d , top panel ) , which do not bind to gst - ldzip alone .
in addition to cox11 , we also find that other mitochondrial component such a the out membrane - associate protein , hki [ 33 ] ( figure 1d , bottom panel ) and mhsp70 ( unpublished data ) , associate with ld of ranbp2 .
this association be highly specific toward the hki isoform , because hkii , hkiii , and glucokinase do not interact with the ld of ranbp2 ( unpublished data ) .
the interaction of cox11 , hki , and mhsp70 with ranbp2 occur in vivo in retinal extract , since antibody against these and ranbp2 coimmunoprecipitated ranbp2 ( figure 1e ) and hki ( figure 1f ) , respectively , and these interaction be observe across different tissue ( figure s1 ) .
since ranbp2 exhibit chaperone activity , we assess whether the interaction between the ld of ranbp2 and cox11 be direct and the chaperone activity of ld toward fold specie of cox11 .
reconstitution binding assay be carry out between purify ld and cox11 , fully and partially denature with gnhcl and urea , respectively , and native cox11 ( figure 1g and 1h ) .
partial denature cox11 exhibit significantly high and concentration - dependent binding affinity toward ld compare with the native and fully denature cox11 ( figure 1g ) .
in addition , native cox11 purify upon expression in the presence of cuso4 ( a prosthetic group tightly bind to cox11 ) [ 31 ] , show significantly high binding activity toward the ld of ranbp2 , than in the absence of cuso4 ( figure 1h ) .
figure 1
the ld of ranbp2 interact with cox11 and hki
( a ) primary structure of ranbp2 and it structural / functional domain .
the n - terminal ld of ranbp2 be underline .
( b ) sequence alignment of murine and yeast cox11 .
the yeast cox11 c - and n - terminal domain be poorly conserve .
arrow and solid line denote the predict mitochondrial cleavage site and membrane - span domain .
the dotted and dashed line above the aligned sequence represent , respectively , cox11 - n and cox11 - c construct show in figure 1c .
( c ) structure - function analysis of the interaction between the ld of ranbp2 and cox11 .
optimal interaction between the ld and cox11 occur in the presence of construct comprise both the complete ld and cox11 .
although removal of the cytosolic n - terminal ( cox11 - c ) significantly decrease the interaction with ld , the mitochondrial intermembrane domain of cox11 ( cox11 - c ) together with the c - terminal half of ld ( ld - c ) retain most of the interaction activity .
ld - n and ld - c end and begin with the leucine zipper domain of ranbp2 .
white and black bar denote β - galactosidase activity and growth rate in selective growth medium , respectively .
result show represent the mean ± sd , n = 3 .
( d ) gst pull - down assay with the ld of ranbp2 and it leucine zipper domain and retinal extract .
the ld , but not the leucine zipper domain of ranbp2 , associate with cox11 ( top panel , lane 1 ) and hki ( bottom panel , lane 1 ) .
( e ) coimmunoprecipitation of ranbp2 with antibody against it molecular partner show that ranbp2 form a complex in vivo with hki ( lane 1 and 2 ) , mhsp70 ( lane 3 ) , and cox11 ( lane 4 ) .
lane 5 , 6 , and 7 be control immunoprecipitation reaction with different antibody against the ranbp2 domain , kbd , znf , and xafxfg of nucleoporins .
( f ) reciprocal coimmunoprecipitation of hki with antibody against ranbp2 ( use and show in ( e ) ) .
( g ) reconstitution pull - down assay with purify ld and increase concentration of native ( top panel ) , denature ( middle panel ) , and partially denature ( bottom panel ) cox11 , respectively , in the absence and presence of denaturating agent , gnhcl and chaotropic agent , urea .
folding intermediate ( low panel ) of cox11 exhibit the high binding activity toward the ld of ranbp2 .
( h ) similar experiment a in ( g ) but in the presence of native cox11 express in the absence ( top panel ) or presence ( bottom panel ) of cuso4 .
the mature isoform of the metallochaperone have an increase affinity toward the ld of ranbp2 .
ld , leucine - rich domain ; lz , leucine zipper domain ; rbd1 – 4 , ran - binding domain 1 – 4 ; znf , zinc finger cluster domain ; kbd , kinesin ( kif5b / kif5c ) - binding domain ; cld , cyclophilin - like domain ; ir , internal repeat domain ; cy , cyclophilin domain .
cox 11 inhibit hki activity and the ld of ranbp2 reverse the inhibition of cox11 over hki
to probe whether the interaction of cox11 and hki with the ld of ranbp2 modulate the enzymatic activity of hki , we first examine the effect of increase concentration of cox11 on the initial rate of hki enzymatic activity ( figure 2a ) .
cox11 strongly inhibit hki activity in a concentration - dependent fashion , and at ~ 15 nm of cox11 , hki activity could not be record ( figure 2a ) .
cox11 behave a a partial noncompetitive inhibitor of hki by affect the vmax of hki for glucose ( figure 2b ) .
then , we evaluate the effect of the ld of ranbp2 on the hk activity in the presence of a fix inhibitory concentration of cox11 , saturate concentration of glucose substrate , and increase concentration of ld .
a show in figure 2c , the ld domain sharply reverse the inhibitory effect of cox11 on hki activity in a concentration - dependent manner , but under saturate ( and stochiometric ) amount of ld , the velocity of the reaction do not reach that observe for hki activity in the absence of cox11 ( figure 2a ) , suggest the ld by itself may also have an effect on hki activity .
indeed , a saturating concentration of ld reduce the vmax but not the km of hki ( figure 2d ) by ~ 20 % under similar condition .
figure 2
effect of cox11 and ranbp2 on hki activity
( a ) saturation kinetics , rate versus glucose of hki ( 0.24 μg ) in the absence ( solid circle ) and presence of cox11 ( open circle , 0.25 nm ; solid triangle , 7.5 nm ) .
the activity of hki decrease with increase concentration of cox11 .
no measurable hki activity be record in the presence of 15 nm of cox11 ( unpublished data ) .
( b ) hanes - wolf plot of ( a ) ( 1 / rate versus glucose ) in the absence and presence of fix concentration of cox11 .
linearity of reciprocal plot also support the hyperbolic behavior of the reaction ( unpublished data ) .
cox11 behave a a noncompetitive inhibitor of hki by reduce the vmax of hki but not it km toward glucose .
( c ) hki rate be plot a a function of ld concentration at saturate glucose and fix cox11 ( 7.5 nm ) concentration .
note that increase concentration of the ld of ranbp2 reverse the inhibition of hki activity by cox11 .
a half - maximal effect of the ld of ranbp2 on hki activity in the presence of 7.5 nm of cox11 be observe at a concentration of ~ 0.05 nm of ld .
( d ) rate versus glucose plot in the absence and presence of the ld of ranbp2 .
at a saturating concentration of the ld of ranbp2 ( 3.75 nm ) , the hki activity be reduce by about 20 % .
v , rate ; s , glucose .
ranbp2 colocalizes with hk1 , cox11 , and mhsp70 in the retina and culture neuron
in addition to it presence at the vicinity of npc , we have show previously that ranbp2 be localize to and abundant in the mitochondrion - rich ellipsoid subcellular compartment of photosensory ( photoreceptor ) neuron of the retina [ 19 ] .
we extend the subcellular colocalization study on ranbp2 and it novel partner by immunocytochemistry to determine if ranbp2 , cox11 , hki , and mhsp70 colocalize in hippocampal neuron ( figure 3a – 3c ) , cerebral cortex neuron ( figure 3d – 3f ) , ellipsoid ( mitochondrion - rich ) subcellular compartment of photosensory neuron of the retina ( figure 3g – 3o ) , and dissociate primary glia and neuron culture from the brain ( figure 3p – 3z ) .
double immunostaining with antibody against these protein show that they colocalize to the mitochondrion ( figure 3a – 3z ) .
figure 3
localization of ranbp2 and it ld molecular partner
( a – f ) be thin cryosections of an area of the hipocampus ( ca1 neuron ) and cerebral cortex , respectively , immunostained against hki ( a and d ) , ranbp2 ( b and e ) , and merge image thereof ( c and f ) .
note that while ranbp2 and hki be widely express among and colocalize to hippocampal neuron ( c ) , hki expression and localization with ranbp2 be restrict to a subset of cortical neuron ( likely interneurons ) ( f ) .
image of the distal region of bovine retinal cryosections comprise part of the nuclear layer of photoreceptor neuron and their inner ( myoid and ellipsoid ) segment compartment ( g – o ) be immunostained against mhsp70 ( g ) and ranbp2 ( h ) , mhsp70 ( j ) and cox11 ( k ) , hki ( m ) and cox11 ( n ) , and merge image thereof ( i – o ) .
note the prominent localization of ranbp2 , mhsp70 , and cox11 at the mitochondrion - rich ellipsoid compartment of photoreceptors and the colocalization of ranbp2 and cox11 with mhsp70 ( i and l ) , while hki colocalization with cox11 be limit to restrict focus ( r , arrowhead ) .
high - resolution image of dissociate primary cerebral neuron and glial cell confirm that the colocalization of hki and cox11 be highly restricted ( p – r ) , while ranbp2 extensively colocalized with hki ( s – u ) and mhsp70 ( v – z ) .
scale bar in a – o and p – z be 40 and 10 μm , respectively .
onl , out nuclear layer .
haploinsufficiency of ranbp2 cause decrease level of hki and partial mislocalization of hki
to determine the physiological implication of the interaction between ranbp2 and hki ( and other partner ) , we employ a murine embryonic stem 129ola cell line with a target ranbp2 locus produce by gene - trapping to produce stable inbred ( coisogenic ) and mixed background line , respectively ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
genotyping of 299 f2 offspring reveal a ranbp2 + / + : ranbp2 + / − : ranbp2 − / − distribution ( 89 : 210 : 0 ) that deviate from the expect mendelian ratio and support that the ranbp2 − / − mouse be embryonically lethal .
e12.5 embryo show strong expression of ranbp2 in the optic vesicle and throughout much of the embryo , which have no apparent developmental abnormality ( figure 4c ) .
in agreement with previous immunocytochemistry analysis [ 19 ] , the ranbp2 gene be express across mature retinal neuron , but expression in ganglion cell of the adult retina be extremely strong ( figure 4d and 4e ) .
figure 4
insertion mutagenesis of the murine ranbp2 gene
( a ) diagram of the genomic region of ranbp2 disrupt by insertion trap mutagenesis with a bicistronic reporter vector between exon 1 and 2 .
the bicistronic transcript produce two protein under regulation of ranbp2 .
upon splicing of ranbp2 , a fusion between exon 1 and β - geo ( a fusion between the β - gal and neo gene ) be generate , while human placental alkaline phophatase ( plap ) be independently translate use the internal ribosome entry site .
consistent with previous study , the expression of the former be direct to cell body , while expression of the latter be target to the axonal process [ 67 , 68 ] .
transcriptional 5 ′ race analysis detect a fusion between exon 1 and β - geo .
( b ) southern analysis of the ranbp2 locus of wild - type and heterozygous genomic dna of tail of f1 mouse digest with ppumi ( left panel ) and hindiii ( right panel ) with probe at the 3 ′ ( left panel ) and 5 ′ ( right panel ) flanking region of the insertion breakpoint .
q1 be a cosmid contain the ranbp2 gene up to exon 20 [ 4 ] .
( c ) lateroventral view of a whole - mount stain of a ~ 12.5 dpc heterozygous embryo for plap and β - gal ( inset picture ) activity .
although plap be broadly express ( e.g. , somite , limb , and cns ) , the plap and β - gal ( inset picture ) expression be particularly high in the optic vesicle ( arrow ) .
x - gal single ( d ) and combined staining with plap ( e ) of a retinal section of a 3 - mo - old ranbp2 + / − mouse .
consistent with previous immunocytochemistry study , β - gal activity be detect in the neuroretinal body and inner segment compartment of photoreceptors with conspicuously strong expression in ganglion cell .
plap expression be find throughout the plexiform / synaptic layer and out segment of photoreceptors ( e ) .
gc , ganglion cell ; plap , human placental alkaline phophatase ; ro , rod out segment ; ri , rod inner segment ; onl , out nuclear layer ; opl , out plexiform ( synaptic ) layer ; inl , inner nuclear layer ; ipl , inner plexiform ( synaptic ) layer ; gc , ganglion cell layer .
in light of the association in vivo of ranbp2 with cox11 and hki ( figure 1 and 3 ) , profound in vitro modulation of hki enzymatic activity by ranbp2 and cox11 ( figure 2 ) , and the critical role of hki in catalyze a rate - limit step of glycolysis , we probe whether ranbp2 + / − mouse present disturbance in hki , cox11 , and energy homeostasis .
monoallelic expression of ranbp2 do not affect the number of npc and their distribution in hippocampal neuron ( figure 5a , unpublished data ) , but it lead to consistent low expression of ranbp2 by more than 50 % in the cns ( brain and retina ) in 129ola ( figure 5b – 5d ) , but not in c57bl / 6j / 129ola background ( unpublished data ) .
hence , we focus our analysis on the inbred ranbp2 + / − 129ola mouse line .
although the level of ranbp2 be decrease in the retina , brain , and hippocampus of ranbp2 + / − mouse by ~ 50 % – 60 % ( figure 5b and 5c ) , the level of others nucleoporins , nup153 and nup62 , and mhsp70 and cox11 , remain unchanged ( figure 5b , unpublished data ) .
in addition , we observe a strong decrease of the level of hki ( 3 - to 4-fold ) ( figure 5b and 5c ) .
this decrease be selective to the cns , since hki level remain largely unaffected in the skeletal muscle , spleen , and liver ( figure 5d ) .
because hki play a key role in the production of energy intermediate substrate and hki be virtually the sole hk isoform express in the cns [ 33 , 34 ] , we probe the impact of hki and ranbp2 reduction in the level of atp .
a show in figure 5e , there be significant and concordant reduction in level of atp in the cns ( brain and retina ) , but not in non-neuronal tissue .
finally , we also observe partial and selective delocalization of hki , but not of cox11 , from the ellipsoid ( mitochondrion - rich ) to the adjacent myoid subcellular compartment of rod photosensory neuron ( figure s2a – s2e ) .
this be also accompany by reduce hki level in the inner retina , in particular in the inner plexiform ( synaptic ) layer ( figure s2a – s2e ) .
figure 5
haploinsufficiency of ranbp2 cause a decrease in hki protein and atp level
( a ) quantitative analysis of npc in dissociate hippocampal neuron of wild - type ( + / + ) and heterozygote ( + / − ) mouse upon immunostaining with mab414 .
no difference in the density of npc ( 3 – 4 npc / μm2 ) at the nuclear envelope be find between ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse .
( b ) immunoblots with anti-ranbp2 / nup153 / nup62 ( mab414 ) , − hki , − mhsp70 , and − cox11 antibody of retinal ( top panel ) and hippocampal homogenate of + / + and + / − mouse .
in comparison to ranbp2 + / + , ranbp2 + / − mouse exhibit a reduction in the expression level of ranbp2 and hki but not of other protein .
( c ) quantitative analysis of relative protein expression level of ranbp2 , cox11 , hki , and mhsp70 in the hippocampus of ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse .
there be ~ 2 - and 4-fold reduction of ranbp2 and hki in heterozygote mouse .
( d ) the level of hki be reduce in the brain but not in other non-neuronal tissue test ( muscle , spleen , and liver ) .
( e ) the total atp level be reduce in the cns tissue ( brain and retina ) but not in non-neuronal tissue test ( e.g. , spleen ) .
metabolic disturbance cause by haploinsufficiency of ranbp2
the growth rate of inbred ranbp2 + / − mouse on high - fat ( ~ 10 % fat ) diet be significantly slow than ranbp2 + / + mouse ( figure 6a ) .
begin at around 4 mo of age , ranbp2 + / − mouse exhibit a significant slow gain in body mass than wild - type mouse ( figure 6a ) .
in addition , ranbp2 + / − inbred mouse present deficit in body mass that be erase by change the genetic background to a mixed c57bl / 6j / 129ola ( figure 6b ) .
food consumption do not account for the body weight difference observe ( figure 6c ) .
figure 6
ranbp2 + / − mouse on high - fat diet exhibit deficit in growth
( a ) in comparison to wild - type mouse , ranbp2 + / − mouse show slow growth rate begin at 4 mo of age ( arrow ) , and the difference in body weight between these be maintain afterward .
note that ranbp2 + / − mouse lack the growth spur observe in wild - type mouse between 3 and 4 mo of age .
( b ) in comparison to inbred ranbp2 + / − mouse ( 129ola genetic background ) , the difference in body weight between ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse be mask upon place these on a mixed 129ola / c57bl6 genetic background .
( c ) ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − inbred mouse exhibit similar rate of food consumption .
mouse in ( a ) , ( b ) , and ( c ) be place on a high - fat diet since birth ( n = 5 ) .
hki in the cns ( brain and retina ) account virtually for all expression of hk isozymes and glucose utilization in the cns [ 33 , 34 ] .
moreover , glucose be the sole reliance source of energy in the cns under normal condition , the cns lack glucose storage source , and despite the disproportionate mass of the cns to the rest of the body , the cns consume daily about 60 % of the body 's glucose and 25 % of the total oxygen [ 35 , 36 ] .
to determine the impact of ranbp2 haploinsufficiency on the utilization , formation , and uptake of glucose , we carry out several physiological assay .
in contrast to mouse place on a normal chow diet ( ~ 5 % fat ; unpublished data ) , ranbp2 + / − mouse on a high fat diet ( ~ 10 % fat ) perform significantly worse in the glucose tolerance test begin at 6 mo of age ( figure 7a and 7b ) , thus support that the ranbp2 + / − mouse exhibit a deficit in glucose clearance .
this deficit be rescue in ranbp2 + / − mouse of mix c57bl / 6j / 129ola background ( figure s3 ) .
glucose clearance be not affect due to a disturbance in insulin - mediated glucose uptake ( figure 7c ) .
then , we probe whether ranbp2 induce impairment of gluconeogenesis , which could contribute to the pathophysiological production and clearance of glucose .
to this end , the administration of the gluconeogenic substrate precursor , pyruvate ( pyruvate tolerance test ) , show that there be no difference in glucose production in ranbp2 + / − mouse ( figure 7d ) .
hence , partial loss - of - function of ranbp2 have no impact on the gluconeogenesis pathway .
however , upon glucose production ( 15 min ) , the clearance rate of glucose be again significantly slow in ranbp2 + / − than in ranbp2 + / + mouse ( figure 7d ) , confirm an impairment in glucose breakdown .
figure 7
metabolic phenotype of ranbp2 + / − inbred mouse on high - fat diet
( a ) 3 - mo - old inbred ranbp2 + / − mouse ( n = 5 ) have normal glucose clearance rate upon glucose challenge and overnight fasting .
( b ) in contrast , 6 - mo - old inbred ranbp2 + / − mouse ( n = 5 ) have significantly decrease glucose clearance rate upon glucose challenge and overnight fasting .
( c ) fast 6 - to 8 - mo - old ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse have no difference in insulin - mediated glucose uptake a assay by insulin tolerance test ( n = 5 ) .
( d ) pyruvate tolerance test show normal rise in glucose but decrease glucose clearance between inbred ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse ( n = 5 ) .
haploinsufficiency of ranbp2 cause deficit in the electrophysiological output of receptoral and postreceptoral retinal neuron
in light of the prominent expression of ranbp2 and hki in retinal neuron [ 1 , 19 ] , the vital dependence of the neuronal retina ( and brain ) on glucose a the main substrate source for energy production , and the determinant impact of metabolic disorder , such a diabetes , in retinal function ( e.g. , diabetic retinopathy ) [ 37 ] , we probe the impact of deficit in ranbp2 , hki , and atp , on the electrophysiological response of subclass ( rod and cone ) photoreceptor and postreceptor retinal neuron of ranbp2 + / − and in ranbp2 + / + mouse .
the scotopic ( dark - adapt ) response mediate by the rod photoreceptor pathway at low - stimulus intensity and mixed rod and cone pathway at high - stimulus intensity be substantially reduce in ranbp2 + / − mouse ( figure 8a ) .
the difference in the photopic ( light - adapt ) response , initiate by cone photoreceptors , which make up 3 % of the photosensory neuron in the mouse retina [ 38 ] , be less obvious but still exhibit a trend toward reduce amplitude across a range of increase light stimulus intensity ( figure 8b ) .
the reduction in the scotopic response include decrease in both b - wave ( figure 8c ) and a - wave ( figure 8d ) amplitude mediate by postreceptoral and receptoral neuron , respectively .
postreceptoral second - order neuron response , represent by the b - wave , tend to be more consistently and substantially reduce than the a - wave , which directly reflect photoreceptor activity .
since second - order neuron response depend on input from photoreceptors , this suggest that reduce b - wave amplitude be the result of the accumulation of decrease in the light response of both photoreceptors and postreceptoral neuron .
anesthetic , particularly ketamine , can cause sustained elevation of glucose in mouse , which in turn affect electroretinogram response [ 39 ] .
thus , we be concerned that difference in electroretinogram amplitude between ranbp2 + / − and ranbp2 + / + may reflect difference in glucose level change in response to anesthesia .
however , we find no significant difference in glucose level measure before and every 15 min during 75 min of anesthesia ( n = 4 – 5 ) .
glucose rise at the same rate and reach a maximum of approximately 3.3 time the pre-anesthesia level in both genotype ( unpublished data ) .
figure 8
electroretinogram from 6 - mo - old ranbp2 + / − and ranbp2 + / + inbred mouse show photoreceptor and postreceptor neuron electrophysiological response phenotype
( a ) scotopic ( dark - adapt ) response from ranbp2 + / − mouse to light stimulus of increase intensity , begin at threshold , have reduced amplitude compare to those observe in ranbp2 + / + mouse .
the three low intensity represent response generate in the rod photoreceptor neuronal pathway .
the upper intensity be comprise of response generate in both the rod and cone pathway .
( b ) photopic ( light - adapt , cone photoreceptor pathway ) response of ranbp2 + / − mouse to increase light stimulus intensity also exhibit reduce amplitude compare to those observe in ranbp2 + / + mouse .
( c ) average ± se ( n = 9 ) scotopic b - wave amplitude from ranbp2 + / − ( open circle ) and ranbp2 + / + ( fill square ) mouse represent postreceptoral neuron function .
( note : log amplitude scale . )
( d ) average ± se ( n = 5 ) scotopic a - wave amplitude , represent photoreceptor function , for ranbp2 + / − and ranbp2 + / + mouse in response to bright flash .
amplitude of response from ranbp2 + / − mouse be low over the entire range of stimulus intensity for both b - and a - wave .
asterisk represent significant difference between the group ( student 's t test , p < 0.05 ) .
statistical significance be find across all intensity for b - wave amplitude ( 2 - way anova , p < 0.0001 ) , but not for the a - wave .
discussion
our finding support that ranbp2 play a determinant role in modulate glucose and energy homeostasis .
the data support that cox1 and hki be novel partner in vivo for the large ld of ranbp2 ( figure 1 and 2 ) .
the ld of ranbp2 exhibit chaperone activity toward folding intermediate of cox11 , and possibly , the mature hki ( figure 1 ) .
cox11 inhibit noncompetitively the activity of hki with ~ 2 – 3 molecule of cox11 ( assume formation of cox11 dimer ) require to inhibit completely the activity of a molecule of hki ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
cox11 sequester hki by bind to hki at a site that be distinct from the active site and effectively reduce the availability of [ hki ] tot for catalysis .
this be reflect by a reduction of the vmax of hki without significantly affect the km of the active site of hki toward glucose ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
the inhibitory property of cox11 over hki be suppress by ranbp2 ( figure 2c ) , which by itself have a weak but significant inhibitory activity over hki ( figure 2d ) .
the sub-stochiometry effect of the ld of ranbp2 over the inhibition of hki by cox11 support that a ld - dependent chaperonin - like mechanism underlie the suppression of cox11 - dependent inhibition of hki by ranbp2 , and that ranbp2 act a a molecular “ buffer ” over hk1 and cox11 activity .
the partial loss of the ranbp2 chaperone activity in ranbp2 + / − mouse also lead to deficit in the sequestration of hki in the ellipsoid compartment of photosensory neuron .
this possibly underlie the mistargeting of hki to the myoid compartment of these neuron ( figure s2 ) .
the data support that the ultimate pathophysiological outcome in hki , cause by a reduction in ranbp2 level and it chaperone activity , be the selective degradation of hki a reflect by the reduce level of hki ( and atp ) but not of other mitochondrial and npc component ( figure 5 ) .
through this process , it be also possible that deficit in ranbp2 cause a disturbance in the equilibrium between cox11 , hk1 , and ranbp2 by lead to an increase of the inhibitory activity of cox11 over hki that promote the uncoupling of the interaction of hki from ranbp2 , ultimately cause hki degradation .
regardless , low level of hki likely contribute to the decrease level in atp , slow growth rate , and diminish ability to metabolize glucose of ranbp2 + / − mouse ( figure 5 – 7 ) .
a discuss subsequently , the atp deficit in the retina likely account for the reduce electrophysiological response of retinal neuron ( figure 8 ) .
various domain of ranbp2 have be previously implicate with a chaperone role in the cell .
these include the enhancement of the biogenesis of red / green opsin by the combination of the rbd4 - cy domain [ 6 , 7 ] and the stabilization by the ran - bind domain of ranbp2 of the guanosine triphosphate - bind conformational state of rangtpase and interaction of ran with importin - β [ 11 , 40 , 41 ] .
the data herein show that the multi-chaperone role of ranbp2 extend also to it ld in light of it ability to associate to distinct folding specie of cox11 and to prevent hki from be degrade .
this chaperone function be likely to be complement by other partner of ranbp2 with similar and pleiotropic function .
for example , the combination of the cld of ranbp2 with several subunit of the 19 cap of the proteasome [ 14 ] , and of it neighbor internal repeat , w1w2 / ir with the e3 - ubiquitin ligase , parkin [ 20 ] , and the e2 sumo - 1 - conjugate protein , ubc9 [ 15 ] may contribute to the down - regulation of hki by 26 proteasome - mediate proteolysis and modulation of the molecular and subcellular partitioning of these partner .
in this regard , it will be interesting to probe whether parkin also cause deficit in hki in dopaminergic neuron , since parkin be report to modulate ranbp2 turnover [ 20 ] , and parkin loss - of - function also cause energy and growth deficit [ 26 – 29 , 42 ] .
these data add a new dimension to the complexity of the regulation of the glycolytic pathway , in particular in the cns , where glycolysis play a major role in supply energy and where the proteasome machinery may play a critical role in modulate component of the energy supply machinery [ 43 ] .
this be far evidence by the presence of genetic modifier in ranbp2 + / − mouse on a mixed genetic background that compensate for deficit in ranbp2 and deregulation of it partner in glucose / energy homeostasis a observe in the coisogenic line .
the presence of such compensatory mechanism be also support by the identification of a quantitative trait locus , which encompass ranbp2 , and modify the expression of diabetes - relate phenotype [ 44 ] .
the data herein show tissue with a decrease of ranbp2 and hki level mirror a reduction in the atp level .
since the constitutive na+ / k+ atpase pump and the atp - dependent conversion of glutamine to glutamate ( both fundamental to maintain the electrical activity in the cns ) consume the vast majority of the energy produce by the cns [ 45 – 47 ] , this likely underlie the suppression of the electrophysiological output response of retinal neuron ( figure 8 ) .
moreover , deficit in hki may lead to intracellular hyperglycemia in the cns , promote sorbitol - induce osmotic stress , and compromise far the atpase - dependent na+ / k+ pump activity [ 48 – 50 ] .
this may be exacerbate by a decrease of atp , since the activity of hki be also stimulate by atp [ 51 ] .
the cumulative effect of a reduction in atp and intracellular hyperglycemia be know to act synergistically and modulate the electrophysiological property of neuronal activity .
figure 9 integrate in a model these variable and implication of the data present herein .
still , other bona fide ranbp2 partner previously identify and describe in the introduction also become strong candidate to play a role in energy homeostasis .
for example , the unfolding and chaperone activity of component of the 19 cap of the proteasome may be modulate by the cld of ranbp2 [ 14 ] and contribute to the selective hki ( and other substrate ) degradation [ 43 ] , while association of nuclear import receptor , importin - β with the ran - bind domain of ranbp2 [ 10 , 11 ] , may mediate the nuclear translocation of multifunctional substrate , such a glyceraldehyde - 3 - phosphate dehydrogenase .
this trafficking process be selectively inhibit by the neuroprotective drug , r - ( - ) - deprenyl and derivates thereof , and be often employ to treat parkinson disease [ 52 – 57 ] .
hence , ranbp2 and it partner emerge a key player and target gene in mediate neuropathophysiological mechanism implicate in various genetic and environmental lesion to the cns , a in patient with parkinson , diabetes with insulin - resistance , and other neuropathy and neurodegenerative disease , often link to aging manifestation .
to this effect , the ranbp2 mouse model will serve a a unique genetic tool to probe selective , multiple and novel pathway , which may have not be anticipate to be link to metabolic process and ally pathophysiological state .
figure 9
model depict a role of ranbp2 and some of it partner in metabolic and neuronal function
ranbp2 interact with cox11 and hki and the triad be in equilibrium under normal physiological condition .
ranbp2 prevent the inhibition of hki by cox11 and it degradation .
the ultimate effect of ranbp2 on it partner be the stimulation of the glycolytic pathway and production of atp .
the glycolytic pathway be critical to fuel the constitutive na+ / k+ - atpase pump to maintain the dark current between the inner and out segment compartment of photosensory neuron .
a deficit ( haploinsufficiency ) in ranbp2 disturb the equilibrium between ranbp2 , hki , and cox11 .
this pathophysiological event promote the destabilization and degradation of hki and a decrease in atp production require to maintain the depolarization state neuron , and , hence , a reduction in the response of receptoral and postreceptoral neuron .
a reduction in atp level also negatively modulate hki activity / level .
decrease level of hki promote intracellular hyperglycemia and activate stress kinase , which modulate negatively the na+ / k+ - atpase pump by phosphorylation .
pathophysiological pathway promote by ranbp2 haploinsufficiency be represent by dash line .
ri , rod inner segment ; ro , rod out segment .
finally , ranbp2 appear to join other nucleoporins , such a nup96 [ 58 ] , in novel physiological function that be vital for complex organism and that be not anticipate from cell - base study .
the reduce expression of these protein in whole - animal model generate phenotype that be tissue - restricted and more importantly , do not seem to recapitulate phenotype observe with knockdown experiment in cell - base culture assay .
for example , short interfere rna - mediate knockdown of ranbp2 [ 9 ] and member of the nup107 - nup160 complex [ 59 – 61 ] have show , respectively , to cause mitotic arrest and disruption of nuclear pore assembly and deficit in mrna export in cell culture .
yet , haploinsufficiency of ranbp2 ( this work ) and nup96 [ 58 ] predominantly produce , instead , cns - restricted deficit in energy metabolism and alteration in the immune system link to the down - regulation of interferon - β - regulate protein and increase susceptibility of viral infection , respectively .
while these apparent outcome disparity among experimental system remain unclear , they could potentially result from variation in redundancy and compensatory mechanism inherent to each experimental system .
regardless , these genetic and whole - animal model set the stage to probe novel molecular pathway in various physiological and genetic context , and provide also a link to pathophysiological process underlie several human disease .
material and method
yeast two - hybrid screening and assay .
the ld of human ranbp2 ( residue 62 – 711 ) be subcloned in - frame into the gal4 dna - binding domain of bait vector , pbute ( a kanamycin - resistant version of gal4 bait vector pgbduc1 ) [ 62 ] and hybrizap pbd - gal4 vector ( stratagene , la jolla , california , united state ) .
the former be use to screen ~ 18 million clone via mat from murine 9 - to 10 - d - old embryo and brain cdna library at the molecular interaction facility ( mif ) , university of wisconsin , madison , wisconsin .
the latter be use to screen via transformation of ~ 5 million clone from bovine retinal cdna library [ 32 ] .
the screen generate six clone .
one and two in - frame clone be independently isolate from the embryonic and adult brain library , respectively , and the interaction be validate .
the three clone encode cox11 .
interaction between cox11 , ld , and subdomains thereof be quantify by liquid β - galactosidase ( applied biosystems , foster city , california , united state ) and growth assay [ 63 ] .
the maximum specific growth speed ( μmax ) be determine by calculate μmax = ( ln ( xt ) − ln ( x0 ) ) / t , where xt be the od600 of the culture at t = t , x0 be the od600 at t = 0 and t be the time between x0 and xt .
assay be perform with three independent clone and three sample of each clone , the result be average , and the standard deviation calculate .
site - direct and deletion mutagenesis and plasmid construction .
deletion mutagenesis be carry out with pair of primer against domain of interest describe in the figure legend .
pcr product be subcloned into pgex - kg [ 64 ] , hybrizap pbd - gal4 vector ( stratagene ) , and pbute [ 62 ] vector .
gst - ldzip alone comprise residue 447 – 483 of human ranbp2 .
gst pull - down and immunoprecipitation assay .
chap - solubilized retinal extract , expression , and purification of gst - fuse construct be prepare a previously describe [ 65 ] .
gst pull - down assay be carry out with 0.5 – 2.2 μm of gst - fuse protein [ 65 ] .
co-precipitates be resolve on sd - page and analyze by western blot with antibody describe in the result section .
unfold and partially denature cox11 be generate by incubate recombinant and native cox11 overnight with 5.6 and 7 m guanidine hydrochloride and urea , respectively .
the cox11 conformers be then dilute ~ 20-fold in chap - binding buffer contain gst - ld .
immunoprecipitation assay with 5 μg of antibody and western blot ( ~ 200 – 400 ng / ml of antibody ) be perform exactly a describe previously [ 13 ] .
hexokinase i assay .
hexokinase i activity be determine spectrophotometrically at 25 °c by the method of couple the glucose - 6 - phosphate production via glucose - 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase with the change in the absorbance of nadph at 340 nm and a describe by [ 66 ] .
the reaction be start by the addition of purify brain hexokinase i ( 0.24 μg ) ( gift from j. wilson ) to 1.0 ml of reaction mixture contain 0.05 m tris - hcl ( ph 8.5 ) , 7.4 mm mgcl2 , 6.6 mm atp , 0.65 mm nadp , 11.1 mm monothioglycerol , and 1 unit of glucose 6 - phosphate dehydrogenase .
in the case of hexokinase activity measure in the presence of cox11 and ld , the purify hki be incubate with the recombinant protein for 15 min at 4 °c before measurement of the activity .
the data be fit directly into the michaelis - menten equation use sigmaplot ( spss science ) .
antibody .
rabbit antiserum be raise against the recombinant murine cox11 ( residue 40 – 275 ) and affinity - purify under non-denaturing condition ( stereogene ) a previously describe [ 13 ] .
cox11 antibody be use at 200 ng / ml for western analysis .
the monoclonal antibody hsp70 be from affinity bioreagents ( golden , colorado , united state ) and antibody against the kbd ( jx2 ) and znf domain of ranbp2 have be describe [ 13 , 16 ] .
polyclonal and monoclonal antibody against hexokinase i be provide by j. wilson .
the mab414 be purchase from abcam ( cambridge , massachusetts , united state ) .
immunocytochemistry and microscopy .
retina dissection , radial cryosections ( ~ 6 μm ) , and immunohistochemistry procedure be carry out a describe elsewhere [ 19 ] .
brain from 3 - to 5 - mo - old c57bl / 6 mouse be fix overnight in 2 % paraformaldehyde , infuse with 30 % sucrose , and process for cryosectioning .
primary brain neuron and glial cell be prepare from the cerebral cortex .
this be macerate in the hank 's balanced salt solution and triturated .
primary cell be culture in dmem ( gibco , san diego , california , united state ) and collagen - coat 35 - mm glass bottom culture dish ( mattek corporation , ashland , maine ) at 5 % co2 / 37 °c for ~ 2 d and process for immunocytochemistry .
primary antibody be use at concentration ~ 2.5 – 10 μg / ml .
alexa 488 - and alexa 594 - conjugated secondary antibody ( 2.5 μg / ml ) ( molecular probe ) be use for visualization of protein .
crossover of fluorescent probe , background , and autofluorescence be find to be negligible .
visualization of specimen and localization of protein be carry out by wide - field epifluorescence microscopy on nikon ( tokyo , japan ) e600 upright and te2000u invert research microscope equip with similar apochromat objective .
image with the nikon e600 be acquire with a spot - rt digital camera couple to the microscope and drive by spot imaging v4.0 software ( diagnostic instrument , sterling height , michigan , united state ) .
all image be capture at nonsaturating integration level , 12 - bit mono black / white , and then pseudo-colored .
protein colocalization analysis be carry out on the nikon te2000u microscope equip with appropriate excitation and emission filter wheel , cube filter , 100 w mercury light source , nomarski / dic , and plan apochromat optic ( 100 × , 60 × , and 40 × oil objective with na of 1.4 , 40 × lwd , and 20 × lwd objective and encode motorize z - stage ( prior scientific , rockland , maryland , united state ) .
image with the invert nikon te2000u microscope be obtain use a ccd camera ( coolsnap hq ; roper scientific , trenton , new jersey , united state ) .
image acquire under identical acquisition parameter be analyze use metamorph software v6.2 ( universal imaging , glendale , wisconsin , united state ) .
whenever applicable , serial optical z - stack ( 20 – 30 focal plane at 100 - nm interval ) be capture and computationally process by 3 - d blind deconvolution method with the same software .
generation of a mouse line with a disrupt ranbp2 locus and histological analysis of trap ranbp2 mouse .
a feeder - independent mouse e cell line derive from the 129p2 / olahsd strain and harbor a disrupt ranbp2 locus by insertion mutagenesis with the gene trap vector , pgt0pfs [ 67 , 68 ] ( generate by w. skarnes ) , be obtain from the mutant mouse regional resource center ( university of california davis , davis , california , united state ) .
the gene trap vector contain a promoterless neo-lacz fusion gene with a splice acceptor site at the 5 ′ end follow by an internal ribosome entry site ( ire ) and the human placental alkaline phosphatase ( plap ) reporter cassette .
the ranbp2 129ola e line be inject into c57bl / 6j blastocyst and four male chimera be generate .
these be breed into 129p2 / olahsd ( harlan , indianapolis , indiana , united state ) and c57bl / 6j ( jackson laboratory , bar harbor , maine , united state ) female .
the two result and independent f1s line , with 129p2 / olahsd inbred and 129p2 / olahsd / c57bl / 6j mixed genetic background , be test for germline transmission by pcr and southern blot analysis of tail genomic dna .
β - gal and plap activity in whole mount embryo and retinal section be detect , respectively , by incubation with 5 - bromo - 4 - chloro - 3 - indolyl β - d - galactopyranoside and ap staining buffer ( 0.1 mg / ml 5 - bromo - 4 - chloro - 3 - indolyl phosphate , 1 mg / ml nitroblue tetrazolium in 100 mm tris - hcl ( ph 9.5 ) , 100 mm nacl , 5 mm mgcl2 ) a describe elsewhere [ 67 , 68 ] .
western blot and quantitation analysis of protein expression and atp level .
homogenate and detergent solubilized extract of tissue and immunoblots be prepare a describe elsewhere [ 69 ] .
quantitation of immunoblot band calibrate against internal marker band , such a mhsp70 and nup153 , be carry out with gel pro analyzer ( mediacybernetics , san diego , california , united state ) .
for determination of atp level , freshly dissect and flash - freeze tissue be homogenize in 2.5 % trichloroacetic acid ( tca ) , neutralize , and dilute to a final concentration of 0.1 % with tris - acetate ( ph 7.75 ) .
atp measurement be carry out with the enliten atp assay system bioluminescence detection kit for atp ( promega , madison , wisconsin , united state ) a per the manufacturer 's instruction in spectramax - m5 ( molecular device , sunnyvale , california , united state ) .
protein concentration be measure by the bca method ( biorad , hercules , california , united state ) use bsa a a standard .
metabolic assay .
two group of male mouse be keep under separate diet since gestation or birth .
one group be feed with a normal chow diet ( picolab rodent diet 20 − 5053 ; labdiet , richmond , indiana , united state ) , while the other be place on a high energy and fat diet ( picolab mouse diet 20 − 5058 ; labdiet ) .
glucose tolerance test be perform on overnight - fast mouse inject intraperitoneally with 2 g of glucose per kg of body weight .
venous blood glucose value be determine at immediately before ( 0 min ) , and 15 , 30 , 60 , and 120 min after the injection with an automatic glucose monitor instrument ( one touch ultra , lifescan ) .
insulin tolerance test be perform the same way a that describe for the glucose tolerance test with the exception that human insulin ( 0.75 u / kg of body mass ) be inject intraperitoneally in non-fasted mouse .
pyruvate challenge test be perform the same way a that describe for the glucose tolerance test with the exception that pyruvate dissolve in saline ( 2 g / kg of body mass ) be inject intraperitoneally in overnight - fast mouse .
electroretinography .
five ~ 6 - mo - old male ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse in 129ola background be keep in dim cyclic light ( 10 lux ) for 2 wk before electroretinographic response be record .
the mouse be anesthetize intraperitoneally with ketamine ( 80 mg / kg ) and xylazine ( 4 mg / kg ) .
body temperature be maintain with a heating pad at 37.5 ± 1 °c throughout the recording .
the pupil be fully dilate with 0.5 % tropicamide and 2.5 % phenylephrine hcl , and both eye be record simultaneously .
corneal gold - wire loop be use a the active electrode under 0.5 % proparacaine hydrochloride topical anesthesia .
gold - wire electrode place on the sclera near the limbus serve a reference electrode .
a ground wire be attach to the ear .
scotopic response be record from threshold to 9 log unit of intensity above threshold , amplify , and filter ( 5,000 gain , 0.1 – 1,000 hz ) .
for photopic recording background light at 34 cd / m2 be use to suppress rod function .
support information
figure s1
western blot analysis of the association of ld of ranbp2 with hki and cox11 across tissue
gst - jx2 ( 2.2 μm ) be incubate with different tissue extract ( ~ 2.0 mg ) and the gst - jx2 coprecipitates from seven different tissue be analyze by western blot with the antibody against hki and cox11 .
the ld of ranbp2 associate with the hki and cox11 in all seven tissue test .
( 59 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
immunostaining of radial cryosections of wild - type ( + / + ) and heterozygote ( + / − ) ranbp2 mouse retina with anti-hki and − cox11 antibody
a1 and b1 represent magnification of just the distal section of the retina ( inner segment subcellular compartment of the photosensory neuron layer ) .
note the partial delocalization of hki to the myoid subcompartment of the inner segment of photoreceptor neuron in + / − mouse ( b1 ) and decrease level of hki in the inner plexiform ( synaptic ) layer of the retina ( a and b ) .
this be reflect by a significant increase and decrease of the mean fluorescence intensity ( in arbitrary unit ) of hki in the myoid and inner plexiform ( synaptic ) layer , respectively ( e ) .
au , arbitrary unit ; ro , rod out segment ; ri , rod inner segment ; onl , out nuclear layer ; opl , out plexiform layer , inl , inner nuclear layer ; ipl , inner plexiform layer ; gcl , ganglion cell layer ; e and m be , respectively , the ellipsoid ( mitochondrion - rich ) and myoid compartment of photosensory neuron .
( 476 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
metabolic phenotype of ranbp2 + / − mouse in a mixed background and high - fat diet
there be no difference in the glucose tolerance test between ranbp2 + / + and ranbp2 + / − mouse on a mixed 129ola / c57bl6 genetic background ( c ) .
( 38 kb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank john wilson for purify hki , antibody against hki , hkii , hkiii , and glucokinase , and support ; arthur haas for help with kinetic analysis of hki ; and william skarnes for helpful suggestion with the analysis of e insertion trap line .
abbreviation
cld - cyclophilin - like domain
cns - central nervous system
gst - glutathione - s - transferase
hki - hexokinase type i
ld - leucine - rich domain
npc - nuclear pore complex
ranbp2 - ran - bind protein 2
footnote
¤ current address : fugent llc , madison , wisconsin , united state of america
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on september 1 , 2006 ( doi : 10.1371/journal.pgen.0020177.eor ) .
author contribution .
aa , rb , mg , dr , rab , and paf conceive and design the experiment .
aa , rb , mg , jo , dr , xl , and cbb perform the experiment .
aa , rb , mg , jo , dr , rab , pa , and paf analyze the data .
paf contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
paf write the paper .
funding .
work support by the national institute of health ey11993 / ey012665 to paf and the national institute of health 2p30 - ey005722 – 21 .
paf be the jules and doris stein research to prevent blindness professor .
fgf9 and wnt4 act a antagonistic signal to regulate mammalian sex determination
abstract
the gene encode member of the wingless - relate mmtv integration site ( wnt ) and fibroblast growth factor ( fgf ) family coordinate growth , morphogenesis , and differentiation in many field of cell during development .
in the mouse , fgf9 and wnt4 be express in gonad of both sex prior to sex determination .
loss of fgf9 lead to xy sex reversal , whereas loss of wnt4 result in partial testis development in xx gonad .
however , the relationship between these signal and the male sex - determine gene , sry , be unknown .
we show through gain - and loss - of - function experiment that fibroblast growth factor 9 ( fgf9 ) and wnt4 act a oppose signal to regulate sex determination .
in the mouse xy gonad , sry normally initiate a fee - forward loop between sox9 and fgf9 , which up - regulate fgf9 and repress wnt4 to establish the testis pathway .
surprisingly , loss of wnt4 in xx gonad be sufficient to up - regulate fgf9 and sox9 in the absence of sry .
these data suggest that the fate of the gonad be control by antagonism between fgf9 and wnt4 .
the role of the male sex - determine switch — sry in the case of mammal — be to tip the balance between these underlie patterning signal .
in principle , sex determination in other vertebrate may operate through any switch that introduce an imbalance between these two signaling pathway .
introduction
the development of sexually dimorphic reproductive organ be a common feature among animal specie .
the testis and ovary represent two divergent pathway of development from the bipotential embryonic gonad .
the switch that initiate divergent development of the gonad be highly diverse among specie ; however , the underlie mechanism that lead to the establishment of ovary or testis pathway be likely to be conserve .
in all specie , the embryonic gonad be make up of a mixed population of germ cell and somatic cell .
this tissue be remarkable in that all of it cell be believe to be bipotential , and can differentiate into ovarian or testicular lineage [ 1 , 2 ] .
consistent with the idea that cell in this primordium be poise between two developmental pathway , some of the gene that be involve in establish sexual dimorphism , include dax1 ( dosage - sensitive sex reversal - congenital adrenal hypoplasia critical region on the x chromosome protein 1 ) , sox9 ( sry - like hmg box 9 ) , fgf9 ( fibroblast growth factor 9 ) , and wnt4 ( wingless - relate mmtv integration site 4 ) , be initially express in similar pattern in xx and xy gonad [ 3 – 8 ] .
the conventional view of mammalian sex determination be that the basic pathway of organ development be ovarian , and that the testis - determine gene operate by divert this program toward testis development by simultaneously influence the fate of the key support cell lineage and initiate a male - specific morphogenetic program .
all of the experimental evidence suggest that these two process be closely interwoven .
for example , both proliferation [ 9 ] and migration of cell to trigger testis cord formation [ 10 , 11 ] appear to be closely integrated with sertoli cell differentiation .
sry , a y chromosome - link gene , be the primary sex - determine gene in mammal [ 12 – 14 ] .
in the absence of sry expression — in xx embryo , or in xy embryo carry a deletion of sry — cell in the gonad follow an ovarian differentiation pathway .
genetic evidence from chimeric mouse [ 15 ] , and expression study use reporter transgene [ 2 , 16 ] , indicate that sry expression be require only in precursor of the somatic supporting cell lineage .
expression of sry in these bipotential cell lead to their differentiation a testis - specific sertoli cell rather than a follicle cell , the parallel cell type of the ovary [ 2 ] .
it be believe that the sertoli cell be the first cell type to differentiate in the gonad [ 17 ] .
there be substantial evidence that a critical threshold number of sertoli cell be require to establish testis differentiation [ 9 , 15 , 18 – 20 ] .
in case where this threshold be not reach , ovary differentiation ensue .
once sry expression begin , expression pattern of other gene in the gonad begin to diverge .
the first gene downstream of sry know to show male - specific up - regulation in sertoli cell precursor be a relate gene express in many tissue in the develop embryo , sox9 .
disruption of sox9 expression in the xy gonad cause male - to - female sex reversal [ 21 , 22 ] , whereas increase the dose of sox9 in the xx gonad lead to testis development [ 23 – 25 ] .
these study indicate that sox9 play a central role in sex determination .
unlike sry , which be specific to mammal , expression of sox9 be know to be conserve in the gonad of many specie .
in mammal , sox9 be up - regulate immediately after sry expression initiate .
experiment trace sry - express cell use a stable reporter demonstrate that once testis differentiation be establish , all sertoli cell that express sox9 be descendant of cell that have express sry [ 16 ] , suggest that activation of sox9 be a cell - autonomous effect of sry .
however , mutation in several signaling pathway include fgf9 and igf1r / irr / ir ( insulin - like growth factor 1 receptor / insulin receptor - relate receptor / insulin receptor ) result in loss of sox9 expression and partial or complete sex reversal [ 26 , 27 ] , suggest that extracellular signaling pathway play a significant role during primary sex determination .
mouse homozygous for a null mutation in fgf9 display male - to - female sex reversal cause by disruption of all testis - specific cellular event , include cell proliferation , mesonephric cell migration , testis cord formation , and the differentiation of sertoli cell [ 26 , 27 ] .
fgf9 , like many of the founding signal in the gonad , be initially express in gonad of both sex , but become male - specific after sry be express .
in a reciprocal manner , expression of wnt4 , which be also initially common to gonad of both sex , become female - specific [ 8 ] .
xx gonad with a null mutation in wnt4 display some obvious aspect of testicular differentiation [ 28 ] .
base on the theory that sertoli cell initiate all downstream testicular differentiation , this might imply that sertoli differentiation have be initiate in wnt4 − / − xx gonad .
however , expression of sertoli cell marker be not previously detect in these mutant during fetal stage [ 8 , 29 ] , lead to the conclusion that wnt4 be not involve in primary sex determination in the gonad .
to integrate these finding , we investigate the genetic relationship of sry , sox9 , fgf9 , and wnt4 in the regulatory network that govern the gonadal field .
we show that the loss of fgf9 in homozygous mutant xy gonad do not affect the expression of sry or the initial up - regulation of sox9 ; however , sox9 expression be not maintain in the fgf9 − / − mutant gonad , and testis differentiation be abort .
we also demonstrate that fgf9 repress the ovary - promote gene , wnt4 .
we hypothesize that fgf9 function in a feed - forward loop to expand sertoli precursor cell , which secrete fgf9 , to a critical threshold number sufficient to suppress wnt4 .
this directly or indirectly stabilize sox9 expression and secure the male fate of the gonad .
wnt4 seem to oppose the male pathway by repress expression of sox9 and fgf9 .
surprisingly , both male pathway gene be transiently activate in wnt4 − / − xx gonad in the absence of the y - link gene sry .
base on this genetic and in vitro data , we suggest that the plasticity of the bipotential gonad be control by mutually antagonistic signal between fgf9 and wnt4 in the gonadal field .
these signal coordinate sexually dimorphic pattern of growth , morphogenesis , and cellular differentiation .
result
early bipotential expression of fgf9 resolve to an xy - specific pattern by 12.5 dpc
use an antibody specific to fgf9 , we examine expression during normal gonad development .
fgf9 protein be distribute throughout the 11.5 dpc gonad in both sex ( figure 1a and 1b ) .
however , by 12.5 dpc , fgf9 be detect only in xy gonad in two domain : in cell near the surface of gonad and in cell locate within testis cord .
this sex - specific expression pattern be maintain in gonad at 13.5 dpc ( figure 1c – 1f ) .
fgf9 expression within testis cord be localize to sertoli cell and exclude from germ cell base on the germ cell membrane marker platelet / endothelial cell adhesion molecule ( pecam ) ( figure 1d and 1f ) .
to confirm this result , we examine agametic gonad from kitw / wv compound heterozygous embryo , which develop testis cord contain sertoli cell only .
fgf9 be detectable at normal level in testis cord in xy kitw / wv gonad , where alkaline phosphatase staining verify the absence of germ cell ( figure 1g – 1j ) , indicate that fgf9 be express by sertoli cell , and that it expression be not dependent on the presence of germ cell .
in summary , fgf9 expression be present in both xx and xy gonad at bipotential stage , and become restricted to xy gonad a testis differentiation proceed .
sry expression be normal in homozygous null fgf9 xy gonad
the early expression of fgf9 in bipotential gonad raise the question of whether fgf9 be an upstream regulator of sry .
to investigate this possibility , we mat fgf9 + / − mouse with a transgenic reporter line that carry an enhance green fluorescent protein ( egfp ) transgene drive by the sry promoter sry - egfp .
at early stage , this transgene represent the pattern of endogenous sry expression [ 2 ] .
the expression of the egfp reporter be detect in fgf9 − / − xy gonad comparable to fgf9 + / − littermate control ( figure 2a and 2b ) , suggest that transcriptional regulation of sry be independent of fgf9 .
sex reversal be cause not only by the loss of normal level of sry expression [ 30 , 31 ] , but also by mutation disrupt sry import into the nucleus [ 32 ] .
the transgene , sry - egfp , do not reflect the intracellular distribution of the sry protein .
to investigate this aspect of sry regulation , we breed fgf9 + / − mouse with another sry reporter mouse line carry a myc - tag sry transgene , srymyc , which recapitulate the endogenous intracellular sry expression pattern [ 16 ] .
use an antibody against c - myc , the expression and nuclear localization of srymyc in srymyc ; fgf9 − / − gonad be indistinguishable from littermate control ( figure 2c and 2d ) .
these data use two different sry transgenic reporter line provide evidence that sry expression be not dependent on fgf9 .
therefore , fgf9 signaling must act in parallel and / or downstream of sry to regulate testis development .
fgf9 can up - regulate sox9 expression
in our previous study we do not observe sox9 expression at 12.5 dpc in fgf9 − / − xy gonad that fail to develop into normal testis [ 26 ] .
however , the loss of sox9 expression at 12.5 dpc could be a consequence of the loss of sertoli differentiation rather than a reflection of the genetic interaction between fgf9 and sox9 .
normally , sox9 be weakly express in wild - type genital ridge of both xx and xy embryo at 10.5 dpc and , after the onset of sry expression , be up - regulate in xy gonad [ 5 , 33 , 16 ] .
a result indicate that fgf9 function downstream of , or in parallel with sry , we investigate whether fgf9 be involve in the up - regulation of sox9 expression .
primary cell culture and gonad culture system be use to assess sox9 activation by exogenous fgf9 .
for in vitro cell culture , cell be isolate from 11.5 dpc gonad free of mesonephroi , and culture on extracellular matrix - coat coverslips with or without addition of purify fgf9 in culture medium .
after culture for 24 h , sox9 expression be monitor by an antibody specific to sox9 in xx cell and control xy cell .
exogenous fgf9 increase cell number in xx and xy cell culture compare with cell in a duplicate culture without fgf9 treatment ( unpublished data ) , and cause the up - regulation of sox9 in xx cell ( figure 2e – 2h ) .
up - regulation of sox9 have not previously be see in whole xx gonad culture with exogenous fgf9 [ 9 ] .
to explain the difference between experimental result from dissociate xx gonadal cell and xx gonad , we reason that the local concentration of fgf9 might not be high enough to override blocking signal in the intact xx gonad , or that active fgf9 be not efficiently localize or present in the extracellular matrix of the xx gonad .
to test the local effect of fgf9 , we modify the xx gonad culture by stably immobilize fgf9 , or bsa a a control , on bead ( figure 2i – 2k ) .
under these condition , sox9 expression be up - regulate locally in cell near the surface of the xx gonad in contact with the fgf9 bead ( figure 2k ) .
take together , these in vitro data demonstrate that ectopic fgf9 signaling can induce sox9 expression in xx gonadal cell , suggest a positive interaction between fgf9 and sox9 .
fgf9 be require for maintain sox9 expression in xy gonad
to investigate whether fgf9 be essential for the up - regulation of sox9 in vivo , we assess sox9 expression in loss - of - function fgf9 + / − and fgf9 − / − xy gonad at 11.5 – 12.5 dpc ( figure 3a – 3f ) .
in wild - type and heterozygous mutant xy gonad at 11.5 dpc , sox9 be detect in a small number of cell in the gonad ( figure 3a ) .
over the next 6 h of development , nuclear sox9 accumulate rapidly in cell toward the cortex and the anterior and posterior pole of the gonad , replicate pattern previously report for both sry and sox9 expression [ 2 , 16 , 34 – 36 ] .
this unique pattern be also observe in fgf9 − / − xy gonad ( figure 3d and 3e ) .
somatic cell within fgf9 − / − gonad be positive for sox9 at 11.5 dpc , the early stage examine , demonstrate that initial expression and up - regulation of sox9 be not disrupt in fgf9 − / − mutant xy gonad prior to 12.0 dpc .
notably , in fgf9 − / − xy gonad , sox9 be no longer detectable by 12.5 dpc , and sertoli precursor cell never begin to organize into normal testis cord structure ( figure 3f ) .
these data indicate that although fgf9 be not require for the up - regulation of sox9 in vivo , it be indispensable to maintain sox9 expression in sertoli precursor cell .
sox9 be require for fgf9 up - regulation in xy gonad
we hypothesize that if the linear relationship among the three gene be sry → fgf9 → sox9 , expression of fgf9 would be normal in xy gonad in the absence of sox9 .
alternatively , if the relationship be sry → sox9 → fgf9 , expression of fgf9 should be reduced or absent in xy gonad in the absence of sox9 .
we examine fgf9 expression in sox9 homozygous mutant ( sox9 δ / δ ) xy gonad generate by cross mouse homozygous for a conditional null ( flox ) allele of sox9 ( sox9flox / flox ) with mouse carry germline - specific cre transgene , prm1 - cre in male and zp3 - cre in female [ 22 , 37 ] .
the sox9 null mutant embryo die after 11.5 dpc because of cardiovascular defect [ 37 ] .
chaboissier et al. [ 22 ] successfully culture 11.5 dpc sox9 null mutant gonad in vitro and detect male and female marker after 2 – 3 d of culture , suggest that sox9 mutant gonad be viable and developmentally competent at 11.5 dpc — the time point at which we collect sample to perform mrna in situ hybridization ( figure 3g – 3j ) .
the expression of fgf9 be significantly decreased or absent in xy sox9 δ / δ gonad at 11.5 dpc ( figure 3j ) , while sry expression be similar to wild - type ( figure 3g and 3h ) , a previously report [ 20 ] , suggest that fgf9 expression in wild - type xy gonad be dependent on the expression of sox9 .
these finding also indicate that expression of sry be not sufficient to regulate fgf9 in the absence of sox9 .
therefore , we conclude that sox9 be essential for fgf9 expression , and fgf9 , in return , maintain sox9 expression , generate a positive feed - forward loop between these two gene in xy gonad .
like fgf9 mutant gonad , sox9 δ / δ xy gonad show defect in cell proliferation
we previously report that xy - specific cell proliferation be defective in fgf9 − / − xy gonad [ 7 ] .
because sox9 act a a positive regulator of fgf9 expression , we question whether cell proliferation in xy gonad be also compromise by the loss of sox9 .
we examine proliferation in sox9 δ / δ gonad at 11.5 dpc use a mitotic cell marker , phosphorylated histone h3 .
proliferate cell be more abundant and concentrated in a domain near the surface of wild - type xy gonad , and this xy - specific cell proliferation be evident in xy sox9flox / δ littermate control ( figure 3k ) .
however , in sox9 δ / δ xy gonad proliferation be reduce and similar to xx gonad ( figure 3l – 3o ) .
this result support the idea that there be a mutual interdependence between sox9 and fgf9 generate a positive feed - forward loop , and that both gene be require for the expansion of somatic cell , include sertoli cell precursor , in xy gonad .
the male pathway be abort in fgf9 − / − sertoli precursor
base on the fact that sox9 be initially express in fgf9 − / − gonad , we investigate whether other gene in the male pathway be activate .
we examine two marker for sertoli cell differentiation , anti-mullerian hormone ( amh ) [ 38 ] and desert hedgehog ( dhh ) [ 39 ] in fgf9 − / − xy gonad use whole - mount in situ hybridization .
dhh , which be express in xy wild - type and heterozygous gonad begin at 11.5 dpc , be absent from fgf9 − / − xy gonad , although mesonephric expression be still detect ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
amh , which be a direct transcriptional target of sox9 activate after 11.5 dpc [ 38 , 40 ] , be detect at reduce level in fgf9 − / − xy gonad at 12.5 dpc ( figure 4c – 4f ) .
the residual level of amh suggest that the transient expression of sox9 in fgf9 − / − gonad at 11.5 dpc be sufficient to activate amh , a direct downstream target .
however , the absence of dhh indicate that not all sertoli pathway be initiate .
the initial specification of sertoli cell precursor be not affect by the loss of fgf9 , a evidence by normal sry and sox9 expression in fgf9 − / − gonad at 11.5 dpc ( figure 2 and 3d ) .
however , sox9 expression in xy fgf9 − / − gonad rapidly disappear ( figure 3e and 3f ) , and other sertoli marker be absent or severely reduce ( figure 4a – 4f ) .
to investigate the possibility that this loss be due to cell death , we immunostained xy fgf9 − / − gonad at 12.0 dpc — a time point at which sox9 - express cell be decline in number ( figure 3e ) — for active caspase - 3 , an apoptotic cell marker .
apoptotic cell be not observe in fgf9 − / − gonad or in littermate control at 12.0 dpc , although fgf9 − / − sample show somewhat increase cell death in mesonephric tubule and duct , another site of fgf9 expression ( figure 4g and 4h ) .
these data suggest that the loss of sox9 expression in fgf9 − / − xy gonad be not cause by cell death but by the disruption of fgf9 / sox9 feed - forward regulation .
to determine whether the aborting of the male pathway in fgf9 − / − sertoli precursor be associate with the transition of support cell from male to female differentiation , we investigate expression of wnt4 , an ovary - promote gene .
at 12.5 dpc wnt4 be up - regulate in xy fgf9 − / − but not in xy fgf9 + / − gonad control ( figure 4i – 4k ) .
this result suggest that fgf9 be necessary for the down - regulation of wnt4 in differentiate xy gonad at / after bipotential stage .
fgf9 and wnt4 antagonize each other
our finding that high level of wnt4 persist in fgf9 − / − xy gonad imply a genetic antagonism specifically between fgf9 and wnt4 , a both sry and sox9 be initially express in fgf9 − / − xy gonad at 11.5 dpc , yet this be not sufficient to down - regulate wnt4 .
to test whether exogenous fgf9 could down - regulate expression of wnt4 , we culture the xx gonad / mesonephros complex with or without fgf9 protein , and examine wnt4 expression by whole - mount in situ hybridization .
treatment of xx gonad with exogenous fgf9 suppress the normal expression of wnt4 ( figure 5a – 5c ) , support the hypothesis that fgf9 , rather than sry or sox9 , function to down - regulate wnt4 in wild - type xy gonad .
we reason that if fgf9 and wnt4 do act a oppose signal , then reduction in the dose of wnt4 might render the xx gonad more susceptible to the male - promote effect of exogenous fgf9 .
to test this possibility , xx wnt4 + / − and wnt4 + / + gonad be culture in medium with or without fgf9 , and be examine for sox9 expression ( figure 5d – 5g ) .
we find that fgf9 induce sox9 up - regulation in xx wnt4 + / − gonad , but not in wnt4 + / + xx gonad ( figure 5f and 5g ) .
these result demonstrate antagonism between wnt4 and fgf9 under in vitro gain - of - function condition .
to test antagonism between these factor under loss - of - function condition in vivo , we investigate whether fgf9 be derepressed in the absence of wnt4 ( figure 6a – 6c ) .
use an antibody against fgf9 , we find that fgf9 be express in wnt4 − / − xx gonad but not in wnt4 + / − xx control ( figure 6b and 6c ) .
this result suggest that fgf9 be normally down - regulate by wnt4 in xx gonad .
give our finding that fgf9 , a positive regulator of sox9 , be derepressed in xx wnt4 − / − gonad , we ask whether expression of sox9 might also occur in xx wnt4 − / − gonad ( figure 6d – 6l ) .
an antibody against sox9 reveal that expression be initially up - regulate in wnt4 − / − xx gonad at 11.5 dpc ( figure 6f and 6i ) , although it be rapidly down - regulate by 12.0 dpc and absent at 12.5 dpc ( figure 6i and 6l ) .
this finding be confirm by mrna in situ hybridization , which also detect sox9 transcript in 11.5 dpc wnt4 − / − xx gonad ( figure s1 ) .
wnt4 − / − xx gonad do not increase in size comparable to normal xy gonad ( figure 6c , 6f , 6i , and 6l ) , and sertoli cell differentiation and testis cord formation do not occur .
nevertheless , it be noteworthy that up - regulation of sox9 occur in this case in the absence of sry , by eliminate the antagonistic effect of wnt4 and up - regulate fgf9 , support our hypothesis that sex determination occur by tip the balance between these two oppose signal .
discussion
many study support the view that cell in the undifferentiated gonad be bipotential ; the support cell precursor lineage can develop into follicle cell or sertoli cell .
in fgf9 − / − xy gonad , cell initially embark on the sertoli pathway , but in the absence of fgf9 can neither maintain sox9 expression nor establish downstream male pathway .
the loss of sertoli cell in xy fgf9 − / − gonad be not due to cell death , but instead to a transition of support cell fate a sox9 expression be lose .
we suggest that in the absence of the antagonize activity of fgf9 , wnt4 signal predominate and govern somatic cell fate in the gonadal field .
the drosophila genital disk be also a field of cell that normally follow one of two sexually dimorphic fate .
for many year it be believe that the fate of each cell in the genital disk be under the cell - autonomous control of double sex ( dsx ) , the key regulator of the sex determination pathway .
however , mosaic study have show that the genetic sex of the cell in the anterior / posterior organizer of the disk , not the sex of the majority of cell in the disk , regulate the sexually dimorphic fate of the disk .
this occur through the sex - specific regulation of wnt , fgf , and transform growth factor beta signaling , which in turn regulate the growth , cell differentiation , and morphogenesis of the disk [ 41 , 42 ] .
sex - specific regulation of gonad organogenesis in vertebrate may occur in a similar manner , where some cell be cell - autonomously responsive to the sex - determine switch ; however , the establishment of the male or female program occur through the non-cell - autonomous activity of classic signaling pathway that act in an antagonistic manner and coordinate growth , cell differentiation and morphogenesis in the gonad .
the interplay between cell - autonomous and non-cell - autonomous pathway in the mammalian gonad be not well understand .
in xx ↔ xy chimera experiment , xx cell can be recruit to the sertoli lineage , indicate that non-cell - autonomous signaling mechanism operate under these condition [ 15 ] .
other more recent study have suggest that paracrine signal could be involve in the establishment of sertoli cell [ 43 – 46 ] .
the current study reveal that ectopic fgf9 can induce sox9 under condition in which xx cell be dissociate ( figure 2f ) , when an fgf9 - coat bead be directly apply to the xx gonad ( figure 2k ) , or when the dose of wnt4 be reduce ( figure 5g ) .
whether fgf9 normally act non-cell - autonomously in vivo to recruit xy cell to the sertoli lineage by up - regulate sox9 be not clear .
we show that sry can initially up - regulate sox9 in the absence of fgf9 , suggest that fgf9 be not necessary for this step .
however , fgf9 may act to trigger cell proliferation , increase the number of sertoli precursor above a threshold need to stabilize the male pathway , consistent with threshold requirement deduce from early study use xx ↔ xy chimeric gonad [ 15 ] .
since sertoli cell produce fgf9 , loss of proliferation of sertoli precursor may result in a reduction of the overall level of fgf9 , and / or other male paracrine signal , below a critical threshold level require to antagonize the influence of wnt4 .
this model be appeal , because it link cell proliferation , believe to be require for establishment of the male pathway [ 9 ] , with sertoli fate determination .
a recent study by yoshioka et al. [ 47 ] show that misexpression of fgf9 in chick nephrogenous mesenchyme lead to the expansion of gonadal marker gene expression , implicate fgf9 in gonadal cell proliferation across specie .
it have be suggest that sox9 repress wnt4 base on misexpression study [ 48 ] .
here we show that the addition of fgf9 protein to xx gonad explant culture repress the expression of wnt4 .
down - regulation of wnt4 be unlikely to occur through sox9 , a sox9 be not up - regulate in this situation [ 7 ] .
furthermore , although both sry and sox9 be initially express in fgf9 − / − xy gonad , wnt4 be not down - regulate in the absence of fgf9 ( figure 4k ) .
these finding support the idea that fgf9 act a the antagonist of wnt4 .
antagonism of wnt signal may be a multistep process involve both the transcriptional down - regulation of wnt4 observe in this study and the destabilization of downstream wnt intracellular pathway that antagonize sox9 expression , a show in chondrocyte differentiation [ 49 ] , or that compete for intracellular signal transducer a have be report in other system [ 50 , 51 ] .
future work will address these possibility .
in support of the idea that wnt4 antagonize the male pathway , we find that the loss of wnt4 cause the up - regulation of both sox9 and fgf9 in xx gonad where sry be absent .
it appear that the male pathway can be initiate by disrupt the balance between wnt4 and fgf9 , a finding that have strong implication for other vertebrate sex - determination system in which sry be not the sex determine factor .
however , up - regulation of sox9 be not sufficient to establish testis development in this mutant , a occur in odsex and other gain - of - function mutant where sox9 be misexpressed in the xx gonad [ 24 , 25 ] .
in those two misexpression case , sox9 expression may have be artificially sustain by exogenous regulatory sequence that bypass the fine dosage balance in this signaling network .
in wnt4 mutant , sox9 expression be not maintain .
in light of the observation that the wnt4 − / − xx gonad do not increase significantly in size ( figure 6 ) , it be possible that the fgf9 / sox9 - express population do not reach a critical threshold .
alternatively ( or in addition ) , another male - specific factor normally dependent on sry may be require to sustain sox9 expression , possibly fgf - bind protein in the extracellular matrix or fgf receptor .
it be equally plausible that there be other female - specific factor that antagonize the establishment of sox9 expression .
it have be observe that several other wnts be express in the xx gonad [ 52 ] , and these or other factor may partially compensate for the loss of wnt4 .
these finding suggest that wnt4 signaling normally act a a repressor of the male pathway by interfere with the up - regulation of sox9 expression .
one report of a duplication of the region of human chromosome 1 , which include wnt4 , lead to an intersex phenotype [ 53 ] .
however , the report constitute only circumstantial evidence .
such a role be not support by effort to misexpress wnt4 in xy gonad , which have lead to very mild phenotype with no evidence for defect in sertoli cell differentiation [ 54 ] .
it be possible that wnt4 protein do not function a an active signal in these transgenic mouse , either because it be not express in the right cell , at the right time , or at the right level .
consistent with our data and the partially sex - reverse phenotype of wnt4 − / − xx mutant , other wnts or additional female factor may be require .
the switch that control sex determination be biologically diverse .
sry be not present in nonmammalian system ; however , antagonistic signaling between fgfs and wnts may be the conserve mechanism that balance the gonad between testicular and ovarian fate in vertebrate .
in theory , any genetic or environmental switch may tip the balance toward the male pathway .
base on our finding we propose that cell in the mammalian gonad be balance between two compete cell fate by counterbalance signaling pathway , fgf9 , express near the coelomic surface , and wnt4 , express near the mesonephric border ( figure 7 ) .
in mammalian xy gonad , the onset of sry expression initiate the male pathway by up - regulate sox9 .
sox9 up - regulate fgf9 , which initiate a sox9 / fgf9 feed - forward loop that accelerate commitment to the male pathway .
in xx gonad or xy mutant gonad lack sry , sox9 , or fgf9 , the sox9 / fgf9 feed - forward loop be not establish , and wnt4 gain control of the gonadal field .
this result in the down - regulation of sox9 and fgf9 , tilt the balance toward commitment to the female pathway .
further experiment will be require to define the molecular mechanism of fgf9 and wnt4 action .
however , our in vivo and in vitro data strongly support the antagonistic relationship of these two signaling pathway in regulate expression of the testis - determine factor sox9 .
material and method
animal and genotyping .
the fgf9 mutation be maintain on a c57bl / 6 ( b6 ) background that lead to sex reversal in 100 % of xy fgf9 − / − offspring .
sry - egfp mouse , a kind gift from k. albrecht and e. eicher , be initially on a mixed b6 / 129 and be backcross to b6 for five generation .
offspring be then cross to fgf9 + / − and intercrossed and backcross to b6 in alternate generation .
all xy fgf9 − / − offspring show complete sex reversal .
srymyc mouse be maintain on a cba background , and wnt4 on a mix 129 / svj background .
mutant embryo be sex by pcr use y chromosome - specific primer and be genotyped a describe [ 2 , 16 , 26 , 55 ] .
mouse homozygous for the sox9 deletion be generate use a germline - specific gene deletion system a describe [ 20 ] .
in situ hybridization and immunocytochemistry .
in situ hybridization be perform on paraformaldehyde - fix / oct embed cryosections , a describe [ 56 ] .
whole - mount in situ hybridization be perform a previously describe [ 57 ] .
probe use for in situ hybridization be : amh [ 58 ] , dhh [ 20 ] , wnt4 [ 8 ] , and fgf9 [ 59 ] .
digoxigenin - label probe be prepare accord to the boehringer - mannheim - roche protocol .
antibody use in whole - mount immunocytochemistry be : mouse monoclonal anti-n - myc ( cell signaling technology , beverly , massachusetts , united state ; 1 : 100 ) , rabbit anti-sox9 ( gift of f. poulat ; 1 : 1,000 ) , rat anti-pecam ( pharmingen , san diego , california , united state ; 1 : 500 ) , rabbit anti-caspase - 3 fragment ( bd bioscience , san diego , california , united state ; 1 : 100 ) , and rabbit anti-phosphorylated histone h3 ( cell signaling ; 1 : 250 ) .
antibody binding be detect use fluorophore - conjugate secondary antibody ( jackson immunoresearch , west grove , pennsylvania , united state ) a recommend .
for fgf9 immunostaining , gonad be prepare a freeze section , and rabbit anti-mouse fgf9 ( cell science ; 1 : 50 ) and anti-rabbit igg conjugate with peroxidase secondary antibody be use , follow by amplification with tyramide - cy3 fluorophore ( molecular probe , eugene , oregon , united state ) .
this antibody do not detect fgf9 in 12.5 dpc ovary or fgf9 − / − null mutant gonad .
immunostained sample be mount in dabco and image on a zeiss lsm420 confocal microscope .
primary gonadal cell culture .
11.5 dpc embryo be collect from cd1 mouse , and sex be determine by stain amnion a describe [ 15 ] .
whole genital ridge be dissect and gonad be separate from mesonephroi .
the gonad be treat with collagenase ( 0.025 % ) and trypsin ( 0.025 % ) in hat buffer at 37 °c for 10 min .
after the digestion , cell be mechanically dissociate by pipetting , wash in dmem , plat on 10 - mm diameter coverslips coat with extracellular matrix ( sigma ) , and be culture in dmem contain 5 % fetal bovine serum and 1 × antibiotic / antimycotic at 37 °c , 5 % co2 .
in one of duplicate culture , fgf9 ( r & d system , minneapolis , minnesota , united state ) be add to the final concentration of 50 ng / ml in the culture medium .
after 36 h of culture , cell be fix and immunostained for sox9 .
syto13 ( molecular probe ) be use for nuclear counterstaining , accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
gonad explant culture .
gonad / mesonephros complex be dissect at 11.5 dpc and culture on agar block for 36 h at 37 °c , 5 % co2 a describe [ 60 ] .
for fgf9 treatment , 50 ng / ml fgf9 ( r & d system ) be add directly to the culture medium , or an fgf9 - load bead be place on the surface of gonad .
to coat bead , heparin - agarose bead ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) be incubate in 50 μg / ml fgf9 for 2 h , and wash five time in culture medium .
support information
figure s1
confirmation that transcription of sox9 be up - regulate in wnt4 − / − xx gonad
whole - mount in situ hybridization for sox9 detect sox9 expression in 11.5 dpc wnt4 + / − xy control and wnt4 − / − xx gonad .
( 428 kb ppt )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
the sry - egfp transgenics be a kind gift from eva m. eicher .
we thank serge nef for freely provide information from his microarray screen , hao chang for generate some of the sox9 mutant and control urogenital ridge , member of the capel lab for discussion , and iordan batchvarov for help with animal .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
abbreviation
dpc - day post coitum
egfp - enhance green fluorescent protein
fgf - fibroblast growth factor
pecam - platelet / endothelial cell adhesion molecule
sox - sry - like hmg box
sry - sex - determine region of the y
wnt - wingless - relate mmtv integration site
figure and table
figure 1
stage - and cell - specific expression of fgf9 in embryonic gonad
( a – f ) detection of fgf9 protein ( red ) at different stage of gonad development .
fgf9 be up - regulate in xy gonad at 11.5 ( b ) , 12.5 ( d ) , and 13.5 dpc ( f ) while it be down - regulate in xx after 11.5 dpc ( a , c , and e ) .
no signal be detect in xy fgf9 − / − gonad ( unpublished data ) .
( g – j ) serial section of wild - type xx and compound heterozygous kitw / wv xy gonad stain for alkaline phosphatase ( purple ; g and i ) and fgf9 ( red ; h and j ) .
testis cord be form in the absence of germ cell in xy kitw / wv mutant gonad at 12.5 dpc ( arrowhead in j ) .
expression of fgf9 be present in the mutant gonad where sertoli cell be the only remain cell type in the cord ( j ) .
semitransparent dot line indicate the boundary between gonad and mesonephroi .
pecam ( green ) mark germ cell and vascular endothelial cell ( c – f , h , and j ) .
the scale bar represent 25 μm .
g , gonad ; m , mesonephroi .
figure 2
epistatic relationship of sry , fgf9 , and sox9
( a – d ) sry expression be not dependent on fgf9 .
fgf9 + / − ( a ) and fgf9 − / − ( b ) xy gonad at 11.5 dpc express gfp ( green ) from the sry promoter ( polygonal cell , arrow ) .
blood cell show background fluorescence ( doughnut - shape cell ) .
fgf9 + / − ( c ) and fgf9 − / − ( d ) xy gonad at 11.5 dpc express srymyc protein ( red , arrowhead ) .
inset show nuclear counterstain ( green , syto13 ) colocalizing with srymyc .
pecam ( blue ) mark endothelial and germ cell .
scale bar represent 25 μm .
( e – k ) exogenous fgf9 can up - regulate sox9 expression in xx gonad .
immunostaining of sox9 ( green ) in primary culture of gonadal cell .
xx cell ( e ) and xy cell ( g ) culture with exogenous fgf9 show induction of sox9 expression ( f and h , respectively ) .
cell be counterstained use the nuclear marker , syto13 ( red ) .
immunostaining of sox9 ( red ) in gonad explants culture with bsa - or fgf9 - coat bead .
sox9 be express in xy gonad and cell contact fgf9 - coat bead ( dot circle label “ f ” ) in xx gonad ( i and k ) but not in xx cell contact bsa - coat control bead ( “ b ” ) ( j ) .
pecam ( blue ) mark endothelial and germ cell .
scale bar ( i – k ) represent 50 μm .
figure 3
interdependent relationship between fgf9 and sox9
( a – f ) immunostaining of sox9 ( red ) in fgf9 + / − and fgf9 − / − xy gonad show that fgf9 be require for maintenance of sox9 .
the up - regulation of sox9 in sertoli precursor cell appear normal in fgf9 − / − gonad at 11.5 dpc ( d ) compare with heterozygous littermate control ( a ) .
however , sox9 be detect in few cell in mutant gonad at 12.0 dpc ( b and e ) , and be lose by 12.5 dpc ( c and f ) .
( g – j ) mrna whole - mount in situ hybridization for sry and fgf9 in sox9flox / δ and sox9 δ / δ xy gonad show that sox9 be require for fgf9 expression .
sry expression be detect in both sox9flox / δ and sox9 δ / δ gonad at 11.5 dpc ( g and h ) , whereas fgf9 expression be markedly decreased or absent in sox9 δ / δ gonad at 11.5 dpc ( i and j ) .
( k – o ) comparison of cell proliferation in sox9 δ / δ versus sox9flox / δ gonad at 11.5 dpc use immunostaining for phosphorylated histone h3 .
xy - specific proliferation at the gonad surface ( k ) be reduce in the absence of sox9 ( l ) .
bar graph ( o ) show quantitation of proliferation obtain by count positive cell in the cortical region of each gonad ( right brace ) and normalize to the number obtain from xy sox9flox / δ gonad .
n = 30 , with five section of each gonad and three pair of gonad for each genotype .
pecam , green ( a – f and k – n ) .
the scale bar represent 25 μm .
figure 4
sertoli cell precursor switch from expression of male to female pathway gene
( a – f ) whole - mount in situ hybridization for gene in the male pathway downstream of sox9 , dhh , and amh .
dhh expression be disrupt in xy fgf9 − / − gonad ( g ) at 11.5 dpc ( a and b ) .
amh expression be severely reduce in xy fgf9 − / − gonad at 12.5 dpc ( e and f ) .
( g and h ) analysis of cell death in fgf9 − / − xy gonad use an apoptotic marker , active caspase - 3 ( red ) .
no increase apoptosis be observe in xy fgf9 − / − gonad ( g ) compare with control xy gonad , although apoptotic cell be increase around mesonephric tubule ( m ) of the mutant gonad ( arrow in h ) .
semitransparent dot line indicate boundary between mesonephros and gonad .
( pecam , green ) .
( i – k ) whole - mount in situ hybridization for wnt4 , an ovary marker .
wnt4 be express in fgf9 − / − xy gonad at 12.5 dpc ( k ) similar to the level in xx fgf9 + / − control ( i ) but not in xy control ( j ) .
the scale bar represent 50 μm .
g , gonad ; m , mesonephros .
figure 5
mutual antagonism between fgf9 and wnt4
( a – c ) wnt4 whole - mount in situ hybridization on gonad culture .
add exogenous fgf9 in gonad culture result in the down - regulation of wnt4 expression in culture xx gonad ( c ) .
control ( a and b ) be culture without fgf9 peptide .
( d – g ) reduction in the dose of wnt4 allow fgf9 to induce sox9 in xx gonad .
immunostaining of sox9 ( red ) show that addition of fgf9 up - regulate sox9 expression in heterozygous wnt4 + / − xx gonad ( g ) , but not in wnt4 + / + xx gonad ( f ) .
pecam , green .
the scale bar represent 50 μm .
figure 6
ectopic expression of male factor , sox9 and fgf9 , in xx wnt4 − / − gonad
( a – c ) fgf9 ( red ) immunostaining show that fgf9 be express in xx wnt4 − / − gonad at 12.5 dpc ( c ) relative to littermate control ( a and b ) .
( d – l ) sox9 ( red ) immunostaining show that sox9 be transiently up - regulate in xx wnt4 − / − gonad .
sox9 expression be detect in wnt4 − / − xx gonad at 11.5 – 12.0 dpc ( f and i ) , albeit at reduce level compare with xy gonad control ( e - h ) .
sox9 be not detect in control xx wnt4 + / − gonad ( d - j ) or wnt4 − / − xx gonad at 12.5 dpc ( l ) .
the ectopic coelomic vessel in xx wnt4 − / − gonad [ 28 ] be indicate by arrowhead .
pecam , green .
the scale bar represent 50 μm .
figure 7
oppose signal regulate sex determination in the bipotential gonad
in both xx and xy gonad at 11.25 dpc ( 15 tail - somite stage ) , fgf9 transcript ( white arrow ) be detect near the gonad surface ( a and b ) , whereas wnt4 transcript be detect near the gonad mesonephric boundary ( c and d ) .
we propose a model in which the fate of the gonad be balance between these compete signal .
a genetic or environmental switch initiate the male pathway by create an imbalance between these signal .
in mammal , this imbalance occur through the up - regulation of sox9 .
sox9 up - regulate fgf9 , and fgf9 maintain sox9 , form a positive feed - forward loop in xy gonad .
in this situation , the balance between fgf9 and wnt4 signal be shift in favor of fgf9 , and the dominance of the male pathway be establish .
in the absence of a fee - forward loop between sox9 and fgf9 ( e.g. , in xx gonad ) , wnt4 block fgf9 , initiate the female pathway .
footnote
author contribution .
yk , ak , and bc conceive and design the experiment .
yk , ak , ld , and jb perform the experiment .
yk , rlb , and bc analyze the data .
yk , r , mcc , fp , rrb , rlb , and bc contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
yk and bc write the paper with significant input from rlb .
citation : kim y , kobayashi a , sekido r , dinapoli l , brennan j , et al. ( 2006 ) fgf9 and wnt4 act a antagonistic signal to regulate mammalian sex determination .
plo biol 4 ( 6 ) : e187 .
doi : 10.1371/journal.pbio.0040187
funding .
this work be fund by grant from the national institute of health to bc ( hd39963 ) , and to rrb ( hd30284 ) .
medium - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency in gene - target mouse
abstract
medium - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase ( mcad ) deficiency be the most common inherit disorder of mitochondrial fatty acid β - oxidation in human .
to well understand the pathogenesis of this disease , we develop a mouse model for mcad deficiency ( mcad − / − ) by gene targeting in embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
the mcad − / − mouse develop an organic aciduria and fatty liver , and show profound cold intolerance at 4 °c with prior fasting .
the sporadic cardiac lesion see in mcad − / − mouse have not be report in human mcad patient .
there be significant neonatal mortality of mcad − / − pup demonstrate similarity to pattern of clinical episode and mortality in mcad - deficient patient .
the mcad - deficient mouse reproduce important aspect of human mcad deficiency and be a valuable model for further analysis of the role of fatty acid oxidation and pathogenesis of human disease involve fatty acid oxidation .
synopsis
medium - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase ( mcad ) deficiency be one of the most common inherit disorder of metabolism .
this defect in fatty acid oxidation can lead to severe and sometimes fatal disease , especially in young child because they be unable to tolerate a fasting episode .
metabolic complication include very low blood glucose concentration and generation of toxic by - product .
this disorder can result in sudden infant death .
use a process know a gene targeting in mouse embryonic stem cell , the author have develop a mouse model with the same enzyme deficiency .
this mouse model of mcad deficiency develop many of the same disease characteristic find in affect child .
the mcad - deficient mouse model show a high rate of newborn loss , intolerance to cold , and the characteristic biochemical change in the blood , tissue , and urine that be very similar to those find in the human disease counterpart .
the mcad - deficient mouse model will allow researcher to well understand disease mechanism so that new preventive measure or therapy can be develop .
introduction
mitochondrial β - oxidation of fatty acid provide energy , especially during fasting condition .
fatty acid oxidation occur in mitochondrion and consist of a repeat circuit of four sequential step .
there be four straight - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenases involve in the initial step .
medium - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase ( mcad ) ( the mouse gene be acadm , whereas the protein be mcad ) , specifically , be responsible for catalyze the dehydrogenation of medium - chain length ( c6 – c12 ) fatty acid thioesters [ 1 ] .
acadm be transcribe in the nucleus , translate in the cytosol , and translocate into the mitochondrial matrix [ 2 – 4 ] .
once inside the mitochondrial matrix , the mcad monomer be assemble into homotetramers to gain enzymatic activity [ 4 ] .
mcad activity be essential for complete fatty acid oxidation .
inherit mcad deficiency exist in human a an autosomal recessive disorder .
mcad deficiency be first describe in 1982 — 1983 [ 5 – 7 ] and have be describe in numerous patient [ 1 , 8 – 11 ] .
the carrier frequency in the caucasian population have be estimate to be between 1 in 50 to 80 with an incidence of clinical disease expect at around 1 in 15,000 [ 1 , 9 , 12 ] .
mcad - deficient patient exhibit clinical episode often associate with fasting .
patient manifest disease usually during the first two year of life .
symptom include hypoketotic hypoglycemia and reye - like episode [ 1 ] .
it be estimate that approximately 59 % of patient present clinically between 15 to 26 mo of age die during their first clinical episode [ 1 ] .
the pathogenesis of the wide range of metabolic disturbance in mcad deficiency be poorly understand and certain aspect of patient management be controversial .
an animal model for mcad deficiency be essential to well understand the pathogenesis of mcad deficiency and to develop good management regimen for human patient .
to gain further insight into the mechanism of this disease , we develop a mouse model of mcad deficiency by gene targeting in embryonic stem ( e ) cell ( for review [ 13 , 14 ] ) .
the mutant mouse have many relevant feature characteristic of the disease find in human mcad - deficient patient , along with some unexpected finding .
result
gene targeting and generation of mcad - deficient mouse
mcad insertion vector ( mcad iv2 ) be design to undergo gap repair of the 1.3 - kb delete region upon homologous recombination in 129p2 ( 129p2 / olahsd ) e cell e14 – 1 .
correct targeting of the mcad locus result in a duplication of exon 8 , 9 , and 10 and integration of flank plasmid and neo sequence ( figure 1a ) .
the insertion vector be design to duplicate exon 8 , 9 , and 10 at the mcad locus .
translation of the duplicate exon 8 region result in the formation of premature stop codon result in truncation of the mcad monomer .
specifically , the first premature stop codon arise after translation of only seven amino acid from the duplicate exon 8 .
the result mcad monomer be miss the c - terminal domain α - helix that be responsible for make intersubunit contact to generate the functional mcad homotetramer .
figure 1
strategy for disruption of the mouse acadm gene
( a ) the mcad iv2 insertion targeting vector with a delete 1.3 - kb region encompass exon 10 and flank sequence .
mcad iv2 undergo gap repair upon homologous recombination at the endogenous acadm locus result in a duplication of exon 8 , 9 , and 10 at the disrupt allele .
( b ) southern blot analysis of ecori - digest genomic dna from e cell screen by pcr .
probe a , a dna fragment consist of a portion of exon 10 that be not present in the targeting vector , hybridize to an endogenous 3.1 - kb fragment and , upon homologous recombination , to a 13.2 - kb fragment .
lane 1 represent a wild - type e cell line , and lane 2 and 3 represent target e cell line .
e cell clone be screen by pcr ( data not show ) and confirm by southern blot analysis .
southern blot analysis use an exon 10 probe ( probe a ) , not present in the targeting vector , hybridize to a 13.2 - kb band in addition to the 3.1 - kb endogenous band indicate target insertion of the vector at the acadm locus ( figure 1b ) .
correctly target e cell clone be microinjected into b6 ( c57bl / 6ntac ) blastocyst to generate chimeric mouse .
chimeric mouse be backcross to both 129p2 and b6 inbred mouse to produce mcad + / − and eventually mcad − / − mouse on a b6 / 129 mixed background .
the study describe here be conduct exclusively on the b6 / 129 mixed background compare with littermate control or b6 / 129 control group maintain by intercrosses a be the mutant .
perpetuate this mutation a a congenic mutant line on the 129p2 background prove impractical .
the 129p2 mouse be poor breeder a wild - type , and when introduce , the acadm mutation be nearly lose on this background because of the high rate of neonatal death .
because of the molecular structure of the target allele , it prove virtually impossible to distinguish all three potential genotype .
we could clearly detect the presence or absence of the target allele , however , whether a particular mouse be mcad − / − or mcad + / − could not be determine by southern blot or pcr of genomic dna .
ultimately mcad − / − mouse be ascertain by immunoblot analysis of offspring with subsequent perpetuation of mcad − / − and mcad + / + mouse a separate group .
rna analysis
rt - pcr amplification from exon 7 to 11 from total heart rna amplify the expect 600 - base pair ( bp ) fragment in mcad + / + and mcad + / − mouse , and a 1.5 - kb fragment in mcad − / − mouse ( data not show ) .
sequence analysis of the 1.5 - kb fragment reveal that the amplify fragment consist of exon 7 to exon 10 with 280 bp of pgem plasmid sequence follow by exon 8 – 11 .
some of the plasmid sequence , along with the ppgkneopa sequence , be delete from this splice mrna .
northern blot analysis reveal acadm be normally express in all tissue analyze from mcad + / + mouse with the most robust expression occur in brown fat , kidney , heart , skeletal muscle , and liver with minimal expression in the brain , white fat , and testis ( figure 2 ) .
interestingly , although rt - pcr amplify an incorrectly splice acadm transcript , no acadm transcript be detect by northern blot analysis from mcad − / − mouse .
these result strongly suggest that the mutant rna be unstable and degrade rapidly or , alternatively , undergo nonsense mediate rna decay .
figure 2
northern blot analysis from mcad − / − ( n = 2 ) and mcad + / + ( n = 2 ) mouse
acadm message be detect from the heart , liver , brown fat , brain , kidney , and muscle ( and white fat and testis , data not show ) of only mcad + / + mouse .
most robust expression occur in brown fat , kidney , heart , and skeletal muscle .
mcad − / − mouse have no detectable message in all tissue examine .
liver enzyme analysis
immunoblot analysis of liver homogenate with anti-mcad antiserum demonstrate that the 42 kda mcad monomer be present in mcad + / + mouse , but not in mcad − / − mouse ( figure 3 ) .
a a control analysis , anti–short - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase ( scad ) antiserum reveal no difference in level of expression of scad protein between mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse ( figure 3 ) .
figure 3
immunoblots of liver homogenate from mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse
these be probe with anti-mcad antibody or anti-scad antibody .
homozygous mcad − / − mouse have no detectable mcad protein .
mcad protein be only detectable under the mcad protein – spike ( positive control ) lane .
a a control analysis , liver homogenate probe with anti-scad antibody reveal that scad protein be present in both mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse .
no mcad positive - control protein be detect by anti-scad antibody ( mcad lane ) .
mw , molecular weight standard .
enzyme activity be analyze in mouse liver homogenate use the electron transport flavoprotein ( etf ) reduction assay with octanoyl - coa ( c8 : 0 ) and palmitoyl - coa ( c16 : 0 ) a substrate .
mcad − / − mouse have a significant reduction in ability to dehydrogenate octanoyl - coa and a modest reduction in activity toward palmitoyl - coa compare to mcad + / + mouse ( table 1 ) .
specifically , the dehydrogenation of octanoyl - coa and palmitoyl - coa substrate be reduce by 75 % and by 30 % , respectively , in mcad − / − mouse a compare to mcad + / + control .
table 1
characteristic of mcad - deficient mouse
value give be mean ± sd .
amcad + / + n = 5 and mcad − / − n = 5 .
bmcad + / + n = 8 litter and mcad − / − n = 10 litter .
cmcad + / + n = 5 and mcad − / − n = 6 .
dmcad + / + n = 4 and mcad − / − n = 5 .
eexpressed a a ratio relative to the internal standard .
neonatal death
significant neonatal mortality be note in mcad − / − pup .
although equal number of pup be bear from mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse , only 41 % of mcad − / − mouse survive to weaning a compare to 98 % of mcad + / + mouse ( table 1 ) .
the mechanism of neonatal loss remain undetermined .
the mcad − / − pup be abandon more frequently than mcad + / + pup for unknown reason .
they be likely more prone to hypothermia than mcad + / + .
because of the difficulty of distinguish the mcad − / − mutant from the mcad + / − heterozygous pup by molecular analysis due to the insertion mutation , we could only compare mcad + / + × mcad + / + mating with mcad − / − × mcad − / − mating .
thus , we be unable to evaluate the pedigree from heterozygous mating .
fasting and cold intolerance
in order to examine the stress effect of fasting on mcad - deficient mouse , they be fast for 24 h prior to analysis .
mcad − / − mouse display low serum glucose and elevate serum free fatty acid level although neither result be significant , a compare to mcad + / + mouse ( table 1 ) .
to determine the effect of cold stress , mouse be fast for 18 h and place in 4 °c environment for a 3 - h period .
the mcad − / − mouse be significantly compromise within this short period of cold stress , some severe enough to result in fatality .
after 1 h of the cold challenge , the average rectal temperature of mcad − / − mouse ( n = 5 ) be 23.4 °c a compare with 35 °c for mcad + / + mouse ( n = 4 ) .
rectal temperature decline to unrecoverable temperature of 16.7 – 19.2 °c in three of the five mcad − / − mouse .
by the end of the 1.5 - h mark , the two survive mcad − / − mouse average 22.7 °c .
in contrast , all four mcad + / + mouse survive the 3 - h cold stress , end with an average rectal temperature of 33.6 °c .
organic acid and acylcarnitine analysis
urine organic acid analysis reveal that mcad − / − mouse develop an organic acid profile similar to mcad - deficient human patient .
specifically , when fast for 18 h , mcad − / − mouse develop significantly elevate concentration of adipic , suberic , and sebacic acid and hexanoylglycine a compare to mcad + / + control , which show trace to no detectable amount of the same organic acid ( table 1 ) .
adipic acid be not specific to mcad deficiency .
we also evaluate β - hydroxybutyric and acetoacetic concentration and find no significant difference between mcad genotype ( data not show ) .
comparison of mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse reveal no significant difference in total serum carnitine concentration between mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse , but mcad − / − mouse have a 5 - to 6 - fold elevation of serum decenoylcarnitine evident in the acylcarnitine profile ( figure 4a ) .
bile acylcarnitine analysis reveal a similar acylcarnitine pattern a in serum ( figure 4b ) .
however , the acylcarnitine profile of the mcad − / − mouse be different from those of human mcad - deficient patient ( figure 4c ) .
human patient present with elevate level of c6 , c8 , and c10 : 1 acylcarnitines , a do the mutant mouse ; however , the predominant peak be c8 acylcarnitine in human , whereas in the mouse it be c10 : 1 acylcarnitine .
figure 4
acylcarnitine analysis
( a ) serum acylcarnitine analysis of mcad + / + ( n = 4 ) and mcad − / − mouse ( n = 4 )
there be significant elevation in acylcarnitine specie a indicate in mcad − / − mouse .
value show be mean value ± standard deviation ( sd ) .
asterisk indicate p < 0.002 and ‡ indicate p < 0.01 .
( b ) there be significant elevation in bile acylcarnitines of the same mouse show in ( a ) a indicate .
value show be mean value ± sd .
asterisk indicate p < 0.001 .
( c ) bile acylcarnitine profile of an mcad − / − mouse compare to a human patient with mcad deficiency .
internal standard be indicate by an asterisk .
histopathology
complete histopathologic examination of one group of mutant and mcad + / + control mouse after a 24 - h fast demonstrate diffuse microvesicular and macrovesicular hepatic steatosis in 6 – 8 - wk - old mcad − / − mouse whereas mcad + / + mouse have no histologic change ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
in another group of 4 - wk - old mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse fast for 24 - h , there be minimal to no abnormality in all organ evaluate .
only the old mcad − / − mouse , therefore , demonstrate hepatic steatosis .
in addition , we find sporadic cardiac lesion in multiple mcad − / − mouse .
figure 5
histopathology of mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse
( a ) mcad + / + mouse have no evidence of hepatic steatosis follow a 24 - h fast .
liver section with oil - red o stain .
( b ) hepatosteatosis in mcad − / − mouse follow a 24 - h fast .
oil - red o stain liver section reveal severe and diffuse microvesicular and macrovesicular hepatic steatosis in mcad − / − mouse .
( c and d ) diffuse cardiomyopathy with chronic active multifocal myocyte degeneration and necrosis in mcad − / − mouse .
in one example , an mcad − / − mouse have diffuse cardiomyopathy with chronic active multifocal myocyte degeneration and necrosis ( figure 5c and 5d ) .
change in degenerate myocytes include swell , pale staining , and , in portion of the sarcoplasm , replacement of myofibril with finely granular eosinophilic material .
nucleus of affect myocytes be large , pale , and vesicular and have prominent nucleolus .
in the most severely affect area , there be loss of myocytes accompany by fibrosis .
in the wall of the aorta at the base of the heart there be multifocal degeneration of the elastic tissue , accompany by multifocal collection of globular translucent yellow - brown pigment interpret to be ceroid / lipofuscin .
similar deposit be scatter within adjacent adipose tissue .
discussion
successfully target acadm produce a mouse model for mcad deficiency with feature that mimic the clinical , biochemical , and pathologic phenotype find in human patient .
mcad - deficient patient have abnormal plasma and urine metabolite associate with the medium chain – length enzyme specificity .
mcad - deficient patient [ 15 ] often display a characteristic urinary hexanoylglycine peak , a be see in mcad − / − mouse .
acylcarnitine analysis indicate , however , mouse mcad be more active toward long chain substrate than the human mcad enzyme .
this finding be similar to that see with very long - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase ( vlcad ) where mouse vlcad be most active toward c16 acyl - substrate a compare to human vlcad with the most enzymatic activity toward c14 acyl - substrate [ 16 ] .
etf reduction assay of liver homogenate be perform to characterize the mcad − / − mouse at the enzymatic level .
mcad − / − mouse have a significantly reduce ability to dehydrogenate c8 - coa , a be the case in human patient where mcad activity be reduce to near zero with c8 - coa .
this be less so with palmitoyl - coa ( c16 : 0 ) .
because there be clearly no mcad antigen detect in mcad − / − mouse , the residual dehydrogenase activity measure with these two substrate must represent the activity of other chain length – specific acyl - coa dehydrogenases .
a high degree of neonatal mortality in mcad − / − mouse be a striking observation and appear to be analogous to the pattern of clinical episode and mortality in mcad - deficient patient .
mcad − / − mouse exhibit significant neonatal mortality with approximately 60 % of the mcad − / − pup die prior to weaning at 3 wk of age .
human patient present with hypoglycemia , hypoketonemia , and nonketotic organic aciduria precipitate by fasting , most frequently during the first 24 mo in life [ 1 ] .
it be likely that neonatal mcad − / − pup be manifest sensitivity to fasting with decompensation in a short period of time if maternal milk be not ingest .
in contrast , no mortality be note in adult mcad − / − mouse unless challenge with cold stress and fasting .
under cold challenge condition , however , mcad − / − mouse be unable to maintain body temperature .
brown fat be predominantly responsible for thermogenesis and normally express high level of acadm mrna .
the microvesicular and macrovesicular hepatic steatosis see in fast mcad − / − mouse be consistent with the primary pathological finding see in human mcad patient with fasting stress .
sporadic cardiac lesion in mcad − / − mouse , however , be an interesting and unexpected finding .
the diffuse cardiomyopathy with multifocal myocyte degeneration and necrosis observe in mcad − / − mouse have not be report in human mcad patient , however , cardiac arrhythmia and dysfunction have be report in mcad - deficient patient [ 17 , 18 ] .
interestingly , cardiomyopathy have be observe in vlcad deficiency [ 19 ] and other disorder of long chain fat metabolism such a severe cpt - 1 and - 2 deficiency [ 1 ] .
thus it be tempting to relate the cardiac problem in the mouse to the apparent broad range of substrate utilization of mouse mcad .
the inconsistent liver and cardiac lesion in these mouse be analogous with the significant inter - and intrafamilial phenotypic heterogeneity see in mcad deficiency in human [ 1 , 20 ] .
in comparison with our experience with the other mouse model for acyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency , the overall phenotype of mcad − / − mouse be less severe than that find in lcad − / − mouse , yet more pronounced than the vlcad − / − or scad − / − mouse model [ 16 , 21 , 22 ] .
all of these mutant be cold intolerant and display vary degree of fatty change in liver , heart , and kidney .
lcad − / − mouse show more spontaneous death and gestational loss than the other deficiency [ 21 ] .
the significant neonatal mortality in mcad − / − mouse be distinctive from these other mouse model suggest a great degree of sensitivity to fasting intolerance .
the phenotype of both the vlcad − / − and scad − / − mouse be relatively mild if the animal be not cold stress [ 16 , 22 ] .
the mcad - deficient mouse offer new insight into the pathogenesis of mitochondrial β - oxidation deficiency and will provide a robust tool to well understand the role of fatty acid in other relevant disease .
material and method
construction of mcad targeting vector .
a neomycin resistance gene cassette [ 23 ] be subcloned into the sali site of pgem11zf ( + ) .
the plasmid be digest with ecori and the overhang be fill with klenow enzyme .
subsequent ligation of the blunt end recircularized the vector and destroy the ecori site within the polylinker of the pgeml1zf ( + ) plasmid .
next , an 8 - kb acadm genomic fragment span exon 8 , 9 , and 10 and flank intron sequence , originally obtain from a lambda fixii 129sv mouse genomic library [ 24 , 25 ] , be directionally clone into the noti and xhoi site of pgem11zf ( + ) .
the vector be digest with bamhi and ecori to remove a 1.3 - kb bamhi / ecori genomic fragment contain exon 10 and flank intron sequence .
the digest vector , without the 1.3 - kb bamhi / ecori genomic fragment , be purify by gel purification and recircularized by ligation use three oligonucleotides : 5 ′ - aattgtcgaca - 3 ′ ; 5 ′ gatcgtcgaca - 3 ′ ; and 5 ′ - tcgatgtcgac - 3 ′ .
the recircularized vector , result from the ligation of the long arm to the short arm of homology , contain a unique sali site where the 1.3 - kb exon 10 region be delete .
generation of mcad - deficient mouse .
the acadm insertion vector be linearize by sali digestion , the site of the 1.3 - kb genomic fragment deletion , and electroporated into e14 – 1 e cell ( a kind gift from r. kuhn ) , derive from 129p2 mouse .
correctly target acadm insertion vector be design to undergo gap repair of the 1.3 - kb deletion upon double strand – break repair [ 26 ] during homologous recombination .
southern blot analysis be conduct to confirm homologous recombination .
genomic dna from g418 resistant e colony be digest with ecori , electrophoresed , blot , and probe with an 850 - bp probe ( probe a ) generate by pcr from acadm exon 10 to intron 10 .
this dna fragment be not present within acadm insertion vector and be expect to hybridize to a 13.2 - kb genomic dna fragment upon homologous recombination .
correctly target e cell clone be microinjected into b6 blastocyst to generate chimeric mouse .
chimeric mouse be subsequently backcross to b6 and 129p2 mouse to produce gene - target mouse acadmtmuab1 / + ( mcad + / − ) and eventually acadmtmuab1 / tm1uab mcad − / − ( b6 ; 129 ) mouse .
mouse be negative for mouse pathogen base on serological assay for ten different virus , aerobic bacterial culture of nasopharynx and cecum , examination for endo - and ectoparasite , and histopathology of all major organ .
rna analysis .
total rna be isolate from the heart of 30 day old mcad + / + , mcad + / − , and mcad − / − mouse by standard technique use guanidinium thiocyanate method [ 27 ] .
reverse transcription be perform use random oligonucleotides a recommend by the manufacturer ( clontech , mountain view , california , united state ) .
pcr be subsequently perform use oligonucleotides specific to exon 7 and exon 11 of acadm .
pcr amplification be perform a describe above .
pcr fragment be subsequently sequence after subcloning into pgem - t easy vector ( promega , madison , wisconsin , united state ) .
in order to determine the extent of acadm mrna express from the mcad − / − mouse , northern blot analysis be perform .
total rna be isolate from heart , liver , brown fat , brain , kidney , skeletal muscle , white fat , and testis of 3 - mo - old mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse use the ultraspec rna isolation kit ( biotex laboratory , inc. , houston , texas , united state ) a per manufacturer 's protocol .
ten μg of total rna from each sample be load onto a 0.8 % agarose - formaldehyde gel , transfer to nitrocellulose filter ( hybond n ; ge healthcare amersham bioscience corp. , piscataway , new jersey , united state ) , and hybridize with 32p - radiolabeled full - length mouse acadm cdna probe use standard procedure [ 28 ] .
hybridization be perform under highly stringent condition ( 42 °c in 2 × ssc , 50 % formamide , 10 % dextran sulfate , 5 × denhardt 's reagent , 1 % sd , and salmon sperm dna ) for 18 h .
the hybridized filter be wash two time in 4 × ssc , 0.1 % sd and two time in 2 × ssc ; 0.1 % sd at 55 °c for 1 h .
the filter be expose to autoradiographic film ( hyperfilm mp ; ge healthcare amersham bioscience , piscataway , new jersey , united state ) .
replicate agarose - formaldehyde gel be stain by ethidium bromide to verify equal rna loading .
immunoblot analysis of mcad protein .
to evaluate the quantity of mcad protein in mouse tissue , liver sample from 6 – 8 - wk - old mcad + / + ( n = 1 ) and mcad − / − ( n = 3 ) mouse be immediately freeze in liquid nitrogen and store at − 80 °c .
for analysis , tissue be homogenize and lysed in ripa buffer ( 1 × pb , 1 % nonidet p - 40 , 0.5 % sodium deoxycholate , and 1 % sd ) with 10 % glycerol and complete protease inhibitor , ( roche diagnostics corporation , indianapolis , indiana , united state ) , 1 mm of phenylmethylsulfonylfluoride , and 1 mm of sodium orthovanadate .
lysates be quantify by bradford bca protein assay ( bio - rad , hercules , california , united state ) .
protein lysates be denature , separate in 8 % sd - page , and transfer overnight onto a 0.45 μm nitrocellulose membrane ( schleicher and schuell , keene , new hampshire , united state ) .
after block with 5 % nonfat milk in phosphate - buffer saline with 0.1 % tween - 20 , the membrane be immunoblotted overnight at 4 °c with 1 : 500 dilution of an anti-mcad antibody .
blot be incubate in anti-mouse igg hrp - conjugate secondary antibody for 2 – 4 h at room temperature use standard procedure and develop by chemiluminiscence ( renaissance , nen lifesciences product , boston , massachusetts , united state ) .
liver enzyme activity .
in order to evaluate mcad activity in mouse , liver homogenate be prepare from mcad + / + ( n = 5 ) and mcad − / − mouse ( n = 5 ) .
the sensitive and highly specific anaerobic etf reduction assay be use on tissue extract with octanoyl - coa ( c8 ) and palmitoyl - coa ( c16 ) a substrate a previously describe [ 29 ] .
fasting and cold challenge .
eight - wk - old mcad + / + and mcad − / − mouse be fast for 18 h ( cold tolerance experiment ) or 24 h ( serum glucose , free fatty acid , organic acid , and carnitine experiment ) prior to analysis .
glucose concentration be measure in 10 μl serum use an ektachem dt ii system ( johnson and johnson clinical diagnostics , rochester , new york , united state ) .
total non-esterified fatty acid ( nefa ) be measure by an enzymatic , colorimetric method ( “ nefa - c ” reagent , wako diagnostics , richmond , virginia , united state ) .
the assay be modify to accommodate a reduce sample size ( 10 μl ) and use of a microplate reader for measurement of optical density at 550 nm .
urine organic acid analysis be perform use gas chromatography - mass spectroscopy a previously describe [ 22 , 30 ] , except tetracosane ( c24 ; sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) be use a the internal standard , and quantitative determination be make base on comparison with synthetic calibration standard .
acylcarnitine analysis in serum and bile be conduct use electrospray tandem mass spectrometry [ 31 , 32 ] .
histopathology .
twelve mouse be examine for gross and histologic abnormality , include one male and one female mcad − / − mouse 18 - mo - old , one male and one female mcad + / + mouse 6 - mo - old , two male and two female mcad − / − mouse 4 - wk - old , and two male and two female mcad + / + mouse 4 - wk - old .
kidney , spleen , pancreas , liver , brain , heart , testicle , ovary , and skeletal muscle be fix by immersion in buffer 10 % formalin , process routinely for paraffin sectioning , section at 5 μm , and stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
freeze liver section be prepare use standard method and section be stain with oil - red - o .
slide be examine without knowledge of genotype or age .
other mouse be examine because of sporadic clinical disease .
those with visible cardiac enlargement be evaluate for cardiac lesion .
statistical analysis .
result between group be test for statistical significance use student 's t - test .
a p < 0.05 be set a significant .
support information
accession number
the genbank ( http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genbank ) accession number for the mouse gene acadm be u07159 .
acknowledgement
we thank sushama varma for technical assistance .
this research be support by the university of alabama at birmingham ( uab ) comprehensive cancer center ( oligonucleotide and transgenic animal shared facility ) grant p30 - ca13148 , uab musculoskeletal disease and arthritis center ( gene targeting core facility ) grant p60 - ar20614 , uab clinical nutrition research center grant p30 - dk - 56336 , and by national institute of health grant r01 - rr02599 ( paw ) , t32 - rr - 07003 ( rjt ) , k01 - rr00129 ( rjt ) , ro1 - dk45482 ( jv ) , and dk54936 ( jv ) .
abbreviation
bp - base pair
e - embryonic stem
etf - electron transport flavoprotein
mcad - medium - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase
scad - short - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase
sd - standard deviation
vlcad - very long - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
rjt , jv , pr , dm , and paw conceive and design the experiment .
rjt , dah , lt , jv , pr , dm , jds , and paw perform the experiment .
rjt , dah , lt , jv , jds , pr , dm , trs , and paw analyze the data and contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
rjt , jv , pr , dm , trs , jds , and paw write the paper .
citation : tolwani rj , hamm da , tian l , sharer jd , vockley j , et al. ( 2005 ) medium - chain acyl - coa dehydrogenase deficiency in gene - target mouse .
plo genet 1 ( 2 ) : e23 .
card15 / nod2 be require for peyer 's patch homeostasis in mouse
abstract
background
card15 / nod2 mutation be associate with susceptibility to crohn 's disease ( cd ) and graft versus host disease ( gvhd ) .
cd and gvhd be suspect to be relate with the dysfunction of peyer 's patch ( pp ) and isolate lymphoid follicle ( lf ) .
use a new mouse model invalidate for card15 / nod2 ( ko ) , we thus analyse the impact of the gene in these lymphoid formation together with the development of experimental colitis .
methodology / principal finding
at week 4 , 12 and 52 , the number of pps and lf be high in ko mouse while no difference be observe at birth .
at week 4 and 12 , the size and cellular composition of pps be analyse by flow cytometry and immunohistochemistry .
pps of ko mouse be large with an increase proportion of m cell and cd4 + t - cell .
ko mouse be also characterise by high concentration of tnfα , ifnγ , il12 and il4 measure by elisa .
in contrast , little difference be find in the pp - free ileum and the spleen of ko mouse .
by ussing chamber experiment , we find that this pp phenotype be associate with an increased of both paracellular permeability and yeast / bacterial translocation .
finally , ko mouse be more susceptible to the colitis induce by tnbs .
conclusion
card15 / nod2 deficiency induce an abnormal development and function of the pps characterise by an exaggerate immune response and an increase permeability .
these observation provide a comprehensive link between the molecular defect and the human card15 / nod2 associate disorder : cd and gvhd .
introduction
caspase recruitment domain 15 ( card15 ) also know a nucleotide oligomerisation domain 2 ( nod2 ) have be associate with crohn 's disease ( cd ) [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] and graft versus host disease ( gvhd ) [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] .
nod2 belong to a family of gene involve in innate immunity [ 5 ] .
it can be activate by muropeptides which be component of the bacterial cell wall .
when activate , nod2 interact with rick / rip2 which in turn activate the nf - kb pathway , result in the production of pro-inflammatory cytokine .
half of cd patient have one or more nod2 mutation [ 6 ] .
some of the cd associate mutation be find unresponsive to muropeptides [ 5 ] .
by consequence , cd be usually consider a an immune deficiency toward bacteria present in the gut lumen [ 7 ] .
however , the exact mechanism by which nod2 mutation be able to induce cd lesion be still subject to debate [ 7 ] – [ 10 ] .
holler et al. report that the three major mutation associate with cd ( r702w , g908r and 1007fs ) be also associated with severe acute gvhd and bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) relate mortality [ 3 ] .
mutation in both donor and recipient be find deleterious , suggest a role of epithelial and circulate cell in disease mechanism .
despite some difference in their conclusion , other group recently confirm the association between nod2 and bmt complication [ 4 ] , [ 11 ] .
cd be a chronic relapse inflammatory bowel disease ( ibd ) with mucosal ulceration of the digestive tract .
cd lesion be characterise by a t helper ( th ) 1 immune response and several author have show that they be relate with gut associate lymphoid tissue ( galt ) , know a lymphoid follicle ( lf ) .
lf be mainly encounter in the colon where they be isolate and in small bowel where they be group form peyer 's patch ( pp ) which be know to be pivotal site for the host immune response and for the entry of enteropathogen bacteria .
cd lesion be most often localize in colon and distal ileum , where the lf be the most abundant [ 12 ] .
fujimura et al. find that aphtoïd ulceration ( which be often consider a the early cd lesion ) be centre by lf [ 13 ] .
in addition to this spatial relationship , a temporal link between cd and pp development have also be suggest [ 14 ] .
pps develop from birth to 10 – 15 year of life and then undergo involution .
the age - dependent incidence curve of cd be roughly parallel to the number of pp with a delay of about 10 year .
finally , ileal lesion be uncommon in young child and senior where pp be rare [ 15 ] , [ 16 ] .
the role of galt in gvhd have be suspect on both experimental model and clinical observation .
animal study show that death after bmt be prevent by gut decontamination and that prevention of mucosal damage also prevent lethal gvhd [ 17 ] .
in clinical practice , gut decontamination reduce the frequency and severity of gvhd .
finally , murai et al. recently show that pp deficient mouse be resistant to gvhd , argue for a crucial role of pps in gvhd , at least in model that do not use conditioning of the host prior to adoptive transfer of the allogeneic donor cell [ 18 ] , [ 19 ] .
consider all these element , we hypothesize that nod2 may play a role in the structure and function of the galt .
consequently , we use a new mouse model deficient for card15 / nod2 i ) to evaluate the involvement of nod2 on the number and pps size ; ii ) to assess whether nod2 modify cellular composition and cytokine expression of pps ; and iii ) to determine whether nod2 may alter paracellular permeability and bacterial translocation of pps in adult mouse .
finally , we also examine if card15 / nod2 deficiency affect the colonic response to 2 , 4 , 6 - trinitrobenzene sulphonic acid ( tnbs ) , a classic experimental model of colitis in mouse .
result
body weight , intestinal length and intestinal weight be similar in ko and wt mouse ( supplementary information ( si ) table s1 ) .
macroscopically , no inflammation be visible in ko mouse accord to wallace and ameho criterion ( data not show ) .
ko mouse exhibit an increase number of pp in comparison with wt mouse at week 4 , 12 and 52 after birth ( fig 1 a ) .
at week 12 and 52 , the number of isolate lf per small intestine be also high in ko mouse than in wt mouse ( fig 1 b ) .
in contrast , the number of pps at birth be similar between ko and wt mouse ( 6.2 ± 0.5 vs. 6.0 ± 0.4 ; p > 0.05 ) ( fig 1 a ) .
macroscopically , the size of pp formation appear to be large in adult ko mouse ( data not show ) .
to quantify this difference , the three big pps of each mouse be pool and their cell be count .
at week 4 , 12 and 52 , ko mouse exhibit a high cell number per pp ( fig 1 c ) .
in contrast , cell count be comparable in spleen of ko and wt mouse ( fig 1 d ) .
microscopic analysis of pp formation from ko mouse reveal no gross abnormality ( fig 1 e ) .
finally , a nod2 modulate the nf - κappab pathway and putatively the apoptosis , we investigate the number of apoptotic cell inside pps .
immunohistochemistry experiment do not show difference between ko and wt mouse for the number of caspase 3 positive cell ( 1.01 ± 0.11 vs. 1.32 ± 0.10 ; p > 0.05 ) ( fig 1 e ) .
in order to well characterise the phenotype of the cell present in pps , we perform flow cytometry experiment use the b220 , cd3 and cd11c antibody .
at week 12 , no difference be see regard the relative proportion of b220 + b - cell , cd3 + t - cell and cd11c + dendritic cell between ko and wt mouse either for pps or spleen ( fig 2 a – b ) .
because some cell present in a limit number may be functionally important , we also investigate the relative proportion of ly - 6g + polymorphonuclear neutrophil ( pmn ) present in the pps ( fig 2 c ) and the number of m cell locate inside the follicle associate epithelium ( fae ) ( fig 2 d ) .
no difference of pmn relative proportion be observe in pps of ko and wt mouse ( fig 2 c ) .
at the opposite , m cell number be increase in the fae of ko mouse in comparison with wt mouse ( fig 2 d ) .
a t - cell be know to play a pivotal role in cd , we far analyze the cd3 + t cell .
at week 12 , ko mouse exhibit an increase of cd4 + t - cell relative proportion within their pps , whereas the proportion of cd8 + t - cell remain constant ( fig 3 a ) .
a a mirror image , pps from ko mouse exhibit significantly few cd3 + cd4 − cd8 − t - cell ( fig 3 a ) .
in contrast , no comparable difference be see in the spleen ( fig 3 b ) .
similar data be obtain at week 4 ( si fig s1 a – b ) .
finally , we investigate the phenotype of cd4 + t - cell present in the pps and spleen by examine the relative proportion of naive cd25 − cd45rb + , regulatory cd25 + cd45rb − and memory cd25 − cd45rb − cd4 + t - cell .
ko and wt mouse have a similar relative proportion of naive , regulatory and memory cd4 + t - cell in pps ( si fig s2 a ) and spleen ( si fig s2 b ) .
flow cytometry analysis also fail to reveal a difference between ko and wt mouse when investigate the annexin v positive cd3 + and cd3 + cd4 + t - cell extract from pps ( si fig s2 c ) suggest that the excess of cd4 + t - cell observe in ko mouse do not result from a defect of apoptosis .
consider the difference of pp cell number and cellular composition , we far evaluate whether pps from ko and wt mouse might exhibit difference regard their cytokine profile .
thus , the expression of il - 1β , ifnγ , tnfα , il - 12 , and il - 4 in pps , pp - free ileum and spleen be determine by elisa , at week 4 and 12 .
level of ifnγ , tnfα , il - 12 , and il - 4 be significantly increase in pps of ko mouse ( fig 4 ) .
in contrast , less marked difference be see between ko and wt mouse in pp - free ileum where tnfα and ifnγ be the only cytokine differentially express at week 4 but not in adult mouse ( fig 4 ) .
finally , no difference be observe in spleen from ko and wt mouse ( fig 4 ) .
cell composition and cytokine production may affect the function of pps .
we thus use ussing chamber for determine the paracellular permeability through pp and pp - free ileum .
pps and pp - free ileum of ko mouse exhibit a significant increase in paracellular permeability ( fig 5 a ) while the electrical resistance be comparable ( data not show ) .
in parallel to this change , mrna expression level of tj protein be affect in pp of ko mouse .
indeed , expression of mrna encode zo - 2 and zo - 1 be decrease by 45 % and 36 % ( p < 0.01 and p < 0.06 respectively ) ( fig 5 b ) .
in contrast , occludin expression be unchanged ( fig 5 b ) .
because nod2 be involve in innate immunity we hypothesise that card15 / nod2 deficiency may affect the gut microflora .
we thus count the number of bacteria classify a enterobacteriaceae , pseudomonas , staphylococcus , streptococcus , enterococcus or lactobacillus in the ileum of ko and wt mouse .
however , we do not observe difference between group ( si table s2 ) .
ussing chamber experiment be also perform to investigate the bacterial passage through pp .
the passage of a chemically kill escherichia coli ( k - 12 ) be high in pp of ko mouse ( p < 0.01 ) ( fig 5 c ) .
this increase translocation be also observe use live non pathogenic escherichia coli strain j53 ( fig 5 d ) .
in contrast , translocation of escherichia coli across free - pp ileum mucosa be very low and not significantly increase ( p > 0.05 , fig 5 c ) .
the translocation through pps of a chemically kill staphylococcus aureus ( wood strain without proteina ) and saccharomyces cerevisiae be also high in ko than in wt mouse ( fig 5 e and f ) ) .
tnbs colitis be a well study model of acute colitis in mouse but no data be currently available in the literature on the effect of card15 / nod2 in this experimental model .
three day after intracolonic instillation of tnbs , the body weight loss be high in ko than in wt mouse but this difference do not reach significance ( fig 6 a ) .
nevertheless , the colonic mucosal damage score be high in ko mouse ( fig 6 b ) as well a mucosal concentration of il - 1β , tnf - α and il - 12 ( fig 6 c ) .
discussion
since the discovery of an association between card15 / nod2 mutation and both cd [ 1 ] , [ 2 ] and gvh [ 3 ] , [ 4 ] , the pathophysiological function of card15 / nod2 involve in cd and gvhd development be poorly understand [ 9 ] .
however , because an association between galt dysfonctions and gvhd , as well a spatial and temporal link between cd lesion and pp have be suggest by several author , we use a new model of card15 / nod2 deficient mouse , to explore the impact of card15 / nod2 in pp development and function .
we observe that adult ko mouse exhibit an excess of pp and isolate lf in the gut .
pp from ko mouse be characterize by an excess of m cell and cd4 + t - cell and a high expression of th1 and th2 cytokine .
these difference be associate with increase paracellular permeability and bacterial and yeast passage through pps .
finally , we observe that card15 / nod2 deficient mouse be more susceptible to tnbs induce colitis .
a a whole , the here report phenotype of the card15 / nod2 ko mouse be reminiscent to the observation make in the human disease associate with card15 / nod2 mutation : cd and gvhd .
our data demonstrate first that card15 / nod2 deficient mouse have an elevate number of pps and isolate lf after birth .
a intestinal weight and length be similar between ko and wt mouse , this finding do not seem to be secondary to an intestinal overgrowth .
in addition , pps from deficient mouse be large , a indicate by the macroscopic examination of the intestine and by the count of pp cell .
a a result , card15 / nod2 modulate the development of the galt and card15 / nod2 deficiency be characterise by an overgrowth of the lymphoïd tissue present in the gut .
this over - development of the lymphoïd tissue seem to be specific to the gi tract a non significant change be observe in a systemic immune organe like spleen .
the lack of difference in pp number between wt and ko mouse at birth indicate that card15 / nod2 play it role during post natal development of the galt .
while lymphotoxin and il - 7 signalling be essential for the organogenesis of pp during the embryonic stage [ 20 ] – [ 22 ] , it be widely believe that gut commensal bacteria be critical for the postnatal development of gut mucosal immune system , a demonstrate by study on germ - free animal [ 23 ] .
such animal have an underdevelop galt and be resistant to experimental colitis and to severe gvhd [ 18 ] .
thereby , pattern recognition receptor , include tlrs and nod molecule , can be see a good candidate by which the resident flora stimulate the development of galt .
however , tlrs play only a limit role in pp development at early postnatal stage in mouse [ 24 ] .
at the opposite , our data suggest that card15 / nod2 play a pivotal role in the postnatal development of galt .
because gut flora be important in pp development , it can be question if card15 / nod2 deficiency affect gut flora composition of the host .
in order to answer this question , we count the bacteria most represent in the ileum and able to cultivate in standard condition .
we fail to demonstrate difference between ko and wt mouse suggest that card15 / nod2 deficiency do not induce gross abnormality of the gut microflora .
however , more discrete alteration can not be discard and additional experiment use germ - free animal and / or molecular method for bacterial detection be require to far explore the relationship between card15 / nod2 and the normal gut flora .
pps have b - cell follicle and germinal centre surround by area that contain predominantly t cell .
the analysis of the pp from card15 / nod2 deficient mouse fail to reveal gross abnormality in term of microachitecture , apoptosis or cell composition ( at least for the three main cell lineage present in pp , namely b - cell , t - cell and dendritic cell ) .
this observation be in accordance with the previous description of other card15 / nod2 ko model of mouse which fail to reveal gross intestinal abnormality under basal condition [ 7 ] , [ 25 ] .
interestingly , the phenotype observe in the deficient mouse be reminiscent with the human cd condition where large lymphoid aggregate with normal microarchitecture and cell composition have be report [ 26 ] .
lf be cover by a specialise epithelium include m cell .
these cell be able to transfer bacterial and food antigen from the gut lumen to antigen present cell [ 23 ] .
they have thus a pivotal role in the function of pp .
m cell be find more numerous in ko mouse .
in addition , pp of ko mouse exhibit a high proportion of cd4 + t - cell and a decrease percentage of cd3 + cd8 − cd4 − t - cell .
a nod2 may modulate the apoptosis , we have hypothesize that this increase of cd4 + t - cell number may result from an apoptosis defect in the lymphoid cell of ko mouse .
however , flow cytometry analysis reveal that the relative proportion of apoptotic cd4 + t - cell from pp be similar between ko and wt mouse .
a a result , our experiment do not support the opinion that card15 / nod2 deficiency be characterise by a general apoptosis defect in the lymphoid tissue of ko mouse .
finally , the alter immune cell composition be concomitant with an increase of pro-inflammatory th1 but also anti-inflammatory th2 cytokine expression .
altogether , these result indicate that under basal condition , pps of ko mouse be characterise by an exaggerate immune response .
cell composition and cytokine production may affect the function of pp .
we thus use ussing chamber for determine the paracellular permeability through pp and pp - free ileum .
ko mouse exhibit a significant increase of paracellular permeability .
this result be in accordance with the alter intestinal permeability report in cd patient and their healthy relative , especially in case of card15 / nod2 mutation [ 27 ] – [ 30 ] .
pro - and anti-inflammatory cytokine be know to modulate intestinal paracellular permeability .
ifnγ , tnfα and il - 4 , act on membrane receptor of epithelial cell to increase tight junction permeability [ 31 ] – [ 34 ] .
for example , on t84 cell ifnγ decrease level of zo - 1 and alter apical actin organisation , which lead to disorganisation of tj and increase permeability [ 35 ] .
similarly , pp from ko mouse exhibit a decrease of zo - 1 and zo - 2 mrna expression in comparison with wt mouse .
consequently , the excessive concentration of ifnγ observe in ko mouse may down regulate the transcription of zo - 1 and zo - 2 mrna expression and contribute to the increase paracellular permeability in ko mouse .
it be to note that this phenotype be reminiscent to the card15 / nod2 associate human disorder .
indeed , in cd patient , increase permeability have be report to be mediate by tnfα and to precede the clinical relapse while gvhd have be treat by anti-tnf antibody [ 36 ] , [ 37 ] .
because of the change in gut permeability , we finally study the role of card15 / nod2 in bacterial translocation .
bacterial passage of staphylococcus aureus and escherichia coli and yeast ingres of saccharomyces cerevisiae be high through pp of ko mouse .
it be widely accept that cd be relate with an excessive bacterial translocation through the intestinal epithelium even if this hypothesis be not perfectly document .
the present data far support this opinion .
in addition , this excess of yeast and bacteria translocation through pp of ko mouse be in agreement with recent report show that mutate cd patient and their unaffected relative develop more frequently antibody to saccharomyces cerevisiae , pseudomonas fluorescens – relate protein , escherichia coli out membrane porin c and cbir1 flagellin [ 38 ] .
the excessive bacteria and yeast passage report here may participate in the enhancement of adaptive immune response to microbial antigen .
the increase number of m cell can contribute to the high translocation rate observe in ko mouse .
however , because m cell differentiation be inducible by microbial challenge [ 39 ] , it may also be a consequence of bacterial translocation and additional experiment be require to far dissect this complex relationship .
it be also possible to consider that card15 / nod2 dysfunction facilitate bacterial entry through defective antibacterial peptide expression [ 7 ] , impair intracellular bactericidal capacity or reduce epithelial immune defence .
finally , bacterial translocation may also be secondary to primitive local cytokine change .
ifnγ be know to increase the epithelial adherence of select specie of enteric bacteria [ 40 ] .
ferrier et al. have show that a chronic stress in mouse drive an organ - specific cytokine expression pattern which in turn , alter the colonic mucosal barrier function and favour bacterial translocation [ 31 ] .
this effect be dependent on the presence of cd4 + t - cell and require ifnγ production .
it be thus possible that bacterial translocation be a result of the immune change rather than it cause and additional experiment be now require to answer this question .
finally , we have show that card15 / nod2 invalidation exacerbate the severity of tnbs induce colitis , a evidence by the increase in all parameter characterise colonic inflammation ( damage score and mucosal level of il - 1β , tnfα and il - 12 ) .
this enhance colitis - induce by tnbs might be explain by different mechanism .
firstly , since microflora be require for tnbs - induce colonic mucosal damage and since card15 / nod2 signaling have be show to inhibit the tlr2 - drive activation of th1 response [ 8 ] , one can hypothesize that the th1 inflammatory response mediate by tlr - 2 be increase in card15 / nod2 deficient mouse .
secondly , since galt be report to modulate the severity of tnbs - induce colitis [ 41 ] , [ 42 ] it can be hypothesise that the tnbs induce colitis be exacerbate in card15 / nod2 ko mouse because of galt overdevelopment .
finally , an alternative explanation could be that the observe defect in term of intestinal permeability and bacterial translocation make the intestine more susceptible to tnbs .
altogether , the present data demonstrate that card15 / nod2 be require to maintain the homeostatis of the pps .
because card15 / nod2 be a well demonstrate etiological factor for cd / gvhd , this conclusion be of particular importance for the understanding of disease mechanism .
indeed , it far support the opinion that the defect involve in the development of the gut lesion be relate with pp and lf function .
the galt dysfunction observe in ko mouse be associate with an excessive gut immune response and an increase bacterial translocation .
these finding be consistent with our knowledge on the human disease associate with card15 / nod2 mutation namely gvhd and cd and for which similar observation have be report .
a a result , the phenotype of the card15 / nod2 ko mouse can be see a an attenuate model of cd / gvhd .
it be to note that the absence of a full phenotype be not unexpected consider the multifactorial nature of the human disease where exposure to several additional unknown genetic and environmental risk factor be require for disease expression .
at the opposite , our work indicate that the card15 / nod2 ko mouse be a relevant model for investigate these other risk factor associate with cd and gvhd .
material and method
animal
card15 / nod2 be disrupt in mouse by replace the first coding exon carry the majority of the sequence encode the card domain include the start codon with a egfp cassette .
( fig. 7 a ) .
in the first step of the strategy , the card15 / nod2 locus be target with the card15 / nod2 ko targeting fragment .
in the second step , the pgkhygromycin selection cassette be remove by cre recombinase .
target disruption be determine by southern blot and long - range pcr analysis ( fig. 7 b – c ) .
genomic dna from mouse be amplify by pcr use the primer : 5 - gtcatttcctgacctctgacc - 3 and 5 - aaccgcattattccatggggc - 3 to detect wt dna and primer 5 - aaccgcattattccatggggc - 3 and 5 - gcctgctctttactgaaggctc - 3 to detect the disrupt sequence .
the loss of mrna nod2 expression be demonstrate in splenocytes by rt - pcr ( fig. 7 d ) use the follow primer : ( 5 - ctttgaactgtatgggtcc - 3 and 5 - ctccactgcctctgcctta - 3 ) .
a expect , no signal be observe in ko mouse .
the card15 / nod2 − / − ( ko ) mouse use for this study be back - cross five time with the inbred strain c57bl / 6 .
wt and ko mouse be house and generate in the animal facility at robert debré hospital , paris , france .
the absence of enteropathogens be monitor .
all experiment be approve by the institutional committee for animal use .
peyer 's patch and isolate lymphoid follicle number
the entire small intestine be remove and the number of pps be determinated by macroscopic observation except at birth where pps be too small to be see by the naked eye .
at birth , small intestine be fix in formalin , stain with 0.5 % methylene blue and decolorize in fresh 2 % acetic acid .
for lf count , small intestine be fix in formalin and roll up into a ‘ swiss - roll ’ , embed in paraffin block and cut into 5 µm section .
lf be count in a blind fashion on two section per block after haematoxylin - eosin staining .
cell composition of peyer 's patch and spleen
cell suspension from pps be prepare by press the three large pps for each mouse with a 5 ml syringe piston .
the preparation be then incubate with 100 u / ml collagenase d ( roche , mannheim , germany ) for 30 minute at 37 °c in dmem medium .
cell from spleen be isolate use the same procedure with an additional step of erythrocyte lysis ( gey's - solution ) .
after centrifugation , cell be re-suspended in dmem medium and submit to flow cytometry analysis on a facscalibur ( becton - dickinson ) , and analyze by cell quest 3.3 ( becton dickinson ) .
monoclonal antibody use to stain cell suspension be purchase from bd bioscience ( pharmingen heidelberg , germany ) : pe - cy5 - anti-cd3 ( 17a2 ) , pe - cy7 - anti-cd3 ( 145 - 2c11 ) , pe - cy5 - anti-cd4 ( h129.19 ) , pe - anti-cd4 ( rm4 ) , fitc - anti-cd8 ( 53 - 6.7 ) , pe - anti-cd11c ( hl3 ) , pe - anti-cd25 , pe - anti-cd45r / b220 ( ra3 - 6b2 ) , fitc - anti-cd45rb ( 16a ) , apc - anti-annexin v and ebioscience ( san diego , ca ) : apc - anti-ly - 6g ( rb6 - 8c5 ) .
immunohistochemistry
m cell be count in the fae use a fluorescence microscope after immunostaining of pp cryostat section ( 5 µm ) with anti-ulex europeaeus antibody ( 1 / 250 , 2 h ) ( sigma , france ) , reveal by anti-ulex europeaus agglutinin i ( 1 / 500 , 30 min . ) ( vector laboratory ) and anti-rabbit fitc conjugate ( 1 / 80 , 30 min. ) ( sigma , france ) .
caspase 3 immunostaining be do use rabbit polyclonal antibody to cleave caspase - 3 ( asp 175 , dilution : 1 / 100 ) ( cell signaling technology , inc ozyme , beverly , ma , usa ) .
cytokine enzyme - link immunosorbent assay ( elisa )
pps , ileum and spleen from wt and ko mouse be remove , wash with cold pb and the concentration of protein be determine use commercial kit ( biorad , marnes la coquette , france ) .
tnfα , ifnγ , il - 4 and il - 1β be determine by elisa assay ( bd bioscience ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
all experimental group be test in duplicate .
ussing chamber experiment
biopsy from ileum with or without pps be place in a chamber expose 0.196 cm2 of tissue surface to 1.5 ml of circulate oxygenate ringer solution at 37 °c .
pp and ileum permeability be assess by measure steady - state ( from 1 to 2 h ) mucosal - to - serosal flux of 4 kda fitc - dextran ( sigma , st. quentin fallavier , france ) .
bacterial translocation be study use chemically kill fluorescein - conjugate escherichia coli k - 12 or staphylococcus aureus bioparticles ( molecular probe , leiden , the netherlands ) or a viable escherichia coli ( the j53 strain resistant to rifampicin ) at a final concentration of 1.107 cfu / ml in the mucosal reservoir .
saccharomyces cerevisiae translocation be study use chemically kill fluorescein - conjugate s. cerevisiae bioparticles ( molecular probe , leiden , the netherlands ) at a final concentration of 1.107 cfu / ml in the mucosal reservoir .
real time reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction ( rt - pcr )
after extraction from pp of ileum by the nucleospin® rna ii kit ( macherey - nagel , hoerdt , france ) , total rna be convert to cdna use random hexonucleotides and then use for pcr .
we conduct pcr with quantitect sybr green pcr kit ( applied , courtaboeuf , france ) use sense and antisense primer specific for : g3pdh , 5 ′ - caccatcttccaggagcgag - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gccttctccatggtggtgaa - 3 ′ ; occludin ( occ ) , 5 ′ - agccttctgcttcatcgcttc - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gtggcaataaacaccatgatgc - 3 ′ ; zonula occludens - 1 ( zo - 1 ) , 5 ′ - gactccagacaacatcccgaa - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - aacgctggaaataacctcgttc - 3 ′ ; zonula occludens - 2 ( zo - 2 ) , 5 ′ - cagccacaatcaacgtgaattc - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - ctgtccttcaagctgccaaac - 3 ′ .
after amplification , we determine the threshold cycle ( ct ) to obtain expression value .
bacterial content of ileum
the entire ileum ( 5 cm ) be remove and ileal content be collect use 3 ml of steril water ( biorad , france ) administer with a polypropylene syringe .
then , ileal content be homogenize and serial dilution ( 50 µl ) of each aliquot be plat onto 5 selective gelose ( uri 4 , drigalski , columbia anc + 5 % of sheep blood , chapman and coccosel ) .
plate be incubate for 24 hour at 37 °c under aerobic condition and the number of colony form unit be count and express a cfu / mg of ileal content .
tnbs induce colitis
under anaesthesia colitis be induce in 12 week old mouse by a single intracolonic administration of 120 mg / kg tnbs ( sigma , france ) dissolve in 50 % ethanol .
a 50 µl aliquot of the freshly prepare solution be inject into the colon , 4 cm from the anus , use a 3.5 f polyethylene catheter .
the mouse be weigh and kill 72 h after tnbs administration .
then , body weight , macroscopic damage score accord the wallace score [ 43 ] , and cytokine level be assess .
statistical analysis
value be express a mean ± sem .
statistical analysis be perform use graphpad prism 4.00 ( graphpad software , san diego , ca , usa ) software package for pc .
single comparison be perform by unpaired student 's t - test .
a value of p < 0.05 be consider a statistically significant .
all p value be two side .
supporting information
table s1
impact of nod2 on body weight , gut weight and intestine length .
at week 4 , 12 and 52 , we investigate the body and gut weight and the intestine length of ko and wt mouse .
no difference be observe between ko and wt mouse ( p > 0.05 ) .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
( 0.03 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
table s2
ileal microflora under basal condition .
under basal condition , no difference be observe between ko and wt mouse ( p > 0.05 for each bacterial group ) .
data represent the mean ± sem of 10 mouse per group .
( 0.03 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s1
pps from ko mouse exhibit high rate of cd4 + and cd4 - cd8 - t - cell at week 4 .
at week 4 , cd3 + t - cell recover from pps ( a ) and spleen ( b ) be stain with antibody to cd3 , cd4 , and cd8 from ko ( ▪ ) and wt ( □ ) mouse .
data be gate for cd3 + t - cell .
relative proportion of both cd3 + cd4 + and cd3 + cd4 - cd8 - t - cell be significantly high in the pps but not in the spleen ( p > 0.05 ) of ko mouse .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
*p < 0.05 ; **p < 0.01 .
( 0.08 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
nod2 and cd3 + t - cell in peyer 's patch .
( a and b ) relative proportion of naïve , regulatory and memory t - cell in pps ( a ) and spleen ( b ) of ko ( ▪ ) and wt ( □ ) mouse at week 12 .
cd4 + t - cell be stain with antibody to cd25 and cd45rb .
( c ) relative proportion of apoptotic cd3 + and cd3 + cd4 + t - cell .
apoptotic cd3 + and cd3 + cd4 + t - cell be investigate by flow cytometry use antibody to cd3 , cd4 and annexin v .
data be gate for cd3 + cd4 + t - cell .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
( 0.04 mb tif )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we acknowledge veronique mégras , catherine martinet , michel peuchmaur , régine paris , pascal blain , jean - baptiste huguet , latifa ferkdadji , françoise merlin , robert ducroc , christèle madre , sarah cheriet and pauline thabuteau for their excellent assistance .
figure and table
figure 1
nod2 and postnatal development of gut associate lymphoid formation .
( a ) pp count on the whole intestine of ko ( ▪ ) and wt ( □ ) mouse at birth and at week 4 , 12 and 52 .
( b ) number of isolate lf identify on microscopic examination of the small intestine at week 12 and 52 .
( c and d ) number of cell per pp and spleen at week 4 , 12 and 52 ) .
( e ) number of apoptotic cell identify by caspase - 3 immunostaining at week 12 .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
*p < 0.05 ; **p < 0.01 , ***p < 0.001 .
figure 2
nod2 and peyer 's patch cellular composition .
( a and b ) relative proportion of t - , b - and dendritic cell from pps and spleen of ko ( ▪ ) and wt ( □ ) mouse at week 12 .
t - , b - and dendritic cell be investigate by flow cytometry use antibody to cd3 , b220 and cd11c .
( c ) relative proportion of polymorphonuclear neutrophil be analyze use ly - 6g antibody .
( d ) m cell number inside the follicle associate with epithelium be investigate by immuno - histochemistry .
arrow indicate the presence of m - cell inside the follicle associate with epithelium .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
**p < 0.01 .
figure 3
nod2 and t - cell subset in pp and spleen from mouse at 12 week of age .
relative proportion of cd4 + , cd8 + and cd4 − cd8 − t - cell from pps ( a ) and spleen ( b ) of ko ( ▪ ) and wt ( □ ) mouse .
at week 12 , cd3 + t - cell be stain with antibody to cd3 , cd4 , and cd8 .
data be gate for cd3 + t - cell .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
*p < 0.05 .
figure 4
nod2 invalidation increase cytokine expression in pp .
expression of il - 1β , ifnγ , tnfα , il - 12 , il - 4 be determine by elisa in pps , ileum and spleen from ko ( ▪ ) and wt ( □ ) mouse at week 4 ( left panel ) and 12 ( right panel ) .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
*p < 0.05 ; **p < 0.01 .
figure 5
paracellular permeability and bacterial translocation be increase in nod2 invalidate mouse .
ussing - chamber and real - time pcr experiment be perform on pp and pp - free ileum from wt ( □ ) and ko ( ▪ ) at week 12 .
( a ) paracellular permeability be analyse by fitc - dextran flux from pp and pp - free ileum under basal condition .
( b ) mrna expression level of tj protein ( zo - 1 , zo - 2 and occ ) from pp be analyse by real - time - pcr under basal condition .
( c ) bacterial translocation of chemically kill fluorescent escherichia coli k - 12 .
( d ) translocation of the viable non enteropathogen escherichia coli strain j53 .
( e ) translocation of a chemically kill fluorescent staphylococcus aureus .
( f ) translocation of chemically kill fluorescein - conjugate saccharomyces cerevisiae .
data represent the mean ± sem of 8 mouse per group .
*p < 0.05 and **p < 0.01 , significantly different from wt .
figure 6
nod2 invalidation increase the suceptibility of tnbs induce colitis .
( a ) body weight , ( b ) macroscopic damage score , ( c ) cytokine level be assess in 12 week old mouse .
these parameter be determine three day after intracolonic administration of tnbs .
value be mean ( sem ) ( n  =  8 in each group ) .
*p < 0.05 and **p < 0.01 between wt and ko mouse .
figure 7
targeting disruption of the murine nod2 gene by homologous recombination .
( a ) generation of the card15 / nod2 ko allele : targeting strategy .
the restriction map of the card15 / nod2 + allele ( 5 ′ portion ) , the card15 / nod2 ko target fragment , and the modify card15 / nod2 allele after homologous recombination and cre - mediate recombination of an hygromycin selection cassette be show .
exon 1 , 2 , and 3 ( black box ) and restriction site use for clone and screen ( x ) xbai , ( a ) agei , ( p ) pmli , ( s ) sali , ( n ) noti be indicate .
the card15 / nod2 ko targeting fragment comprise the egfp gene ( clontech ) in frame with card15 / nod2 atg and the floxed pgkhygromycin ( clontech ) selection cassette , introduce between the agei site downstream of card15 / nod2 exon 1 and the sali site upstream of exon 1 in the card15 / nod2 orientation .
all loxp site be represent by open triangle .
recombination of loxp1 and loxp2 result in the loxp1 + 2 site .
in the first step of the strategy , the card15 / nod2 locus be target with the card15 / nod2 ko target fragment .
in the second step , the pgkhygromycin selection cassette be remove by cre recombinase .
the double - head arrow indicate the dna fragment result from digestion with different enzyme expect to hybridize with probe a , b or hyg .
also depict be combination of pcr primer p1 - 4 that detect the different card15 / nod2 allele .
( b ) southern blot analysis of restrict dna result from digestion with xbai .
hybridation with probe a and b show complete integration of the targetting fragment after homologous recombination .
probe hyg show the differents integration of targetting fragment after homologous recombination .
( c ) genotyping of nod2 - deficient mouse by pcr .
genomic dna from mouse be amplify by pcr to detect the disrupt sequence ( pcr product of 459 bp ) .
( d ) expression of nod2 mrna in spleen .
rt - pcr be perform on purify mrna from the spleen of wt and ko mouse .
a expect , no signal be observe in ko mouse .
gapdh expression be use a positive control of expression .
footnote
compete interest : the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
funding : this work be support by the institut national de la santé et de la recherche médicale , the broad medical research program , la mairie de paris , la fondation pour la recherche médicale , bremici , l'association françois aupetit and la région ile de france .
a mammal - specific doublesex homolog associate with male sex chromatin and be require for male meiosis
abstract
gametogenesis be a sexually dimorphic process require profound difference in germ cell differentiation between the sex .
in mammal , the presence of heteromorphic sex chromosome in male create additional sex - specific challenge , include incomplete x and y pairing during meiotic prophase .
this trigger formation of a heterochromatin domain , the xy body .
the xy body disassemble after prophase , but specialize sex chromatin persist , with further modification , through meiosis .
here , we investigate the function of dmrt7 , a mammal - specific protein relate to the invertebrate sexual regulator doublesex and mab - 3 .
we find that dmrt7 preferentially localize to the xy body in the pachytene stage of meiotic prophase and be require for male meiosis .
in dmrt7 mutant , meiotic pairing and recombination appear normal , and a transcriptionally silence xy body with appropriate chromatin mark be form , but most germ cell undergo apoptosis during pachynema .
a minority of mutant cell can progress to diplonema , but many of these escape cell have abnormal sex chromatin lack histone h3k9 di - and trimethylation and heterochromatin protein 1β accumulation , modification that normally occur between pachynema and diplonema .
base on the localization of dmrt7 to the xy body and the sex chromatin defect observe in dmrt7 mutant , we conclude that dmrt7 play a role in the sex chromatin transformation that occur between pachynema and diplonema .
we suggest that dmrt7 may help control the transition from meiotic sex chromosome inactivation to postmeiotic sex chromatin in male .
in addition , because it be find in all branch of mammal , but not in other vertebrate , dmrt7 may shed light on evolution of meiosis and of sex chromatin .
author summary
gene relate to the sexual regulator doublesex of drosophila have be find to control sexual development in a wide variety of animal , range from roundworm to mammal .
in this paper , we investigate the function of the dmrt7 gene , one of seven relate gene in the mouse .
female mammal be xx and male be xy , a chromosomal difference that present specific challenge during the meiotic phase of male germ cell development .
some of these be think to be overcome by incorporate the x and y chromosome into a specialize structure call the xy body .
we find that dmrt7 protein be present in germ cell , localize to the male xy body during meiosis , and be essential for male but not female fertility .
the xy body normally be alter by recruitment of additional protein and by specific modification to histone protein between the pachytene and diplotene stage of meiosis , but modification of the “ sex chromatin ” in dmrt7 mutant cell be abnormal during this period .
because dmrt7 be find in all branch of mammal , but not in other vertebrate , these result may indicate some commonality in regulation of sex chromatin among the mammal .
introduction
sexual differentiation generate anatomical , physiological , and behavioral dimorphism that be essential for sexual reproduction .
many of these dimorphism affect somatic cell , but the sexual dimorphism that most directly mediate sexual reproduction be those of the gamete themselves .
gamete differ between the sex in size and morphology , sometimes dramatically so , reflect their very different role in zygote formation .
indeed , the morphology of the gamete be what define sex : female be the sex that produce the large gamete and male produce the small one .
mammalian meiosis be regulate sex - specifically start in embryogenesis and continue through much of adult life ( review in [ 1 ] ) .
for example , the timing and synchrony of meiosis be very different in the two sex .
in female , germ cell synchronously initiate meiosis in the embryo and arrest during meiotic prophase i .
after puberty , oocyte be selectively recruit for ovulation , when they proceed to metaphase ii and then complete meiosis after fertilization occur [ 2 ] .
in contrast , male meiosis occur entirely postnatally , without the arrest period find in female .
in female , each meiosis can produce a single haploid oocyte ( and two extrude polar body ) , whereas each male meiosis can produce four haploid spermatocyte .
other meiotic process , such a recombination and chromosome pairing ( synapsis ) , occur in both sex but operate somewhat differently .
for example , there be a high failure rate for meiosis in female , with human oocyte aneuploidy rate up to 25 % versus about 2 % in human sperm [ 3 ] , and this may indicate that the checkpoint control and monitor the event of meiotic progression in male be more stringent .
consistent with this idea , genetic analysis of a number of meiotic regulatory gene in the mouse have demonstrate a much strong requirement in male than in female [ 1 , 4 ] .
the existence of heteromorphic sex chromosome , such a the xx / xy system of mammal , create sex - specific challenge .
one be the need for mechanism to balance expression of sex - link gene between the sex , which in mammal be accomplish by x chromosome inactivation in female [ 5 , 6 ] .
in male germ cell there be another sex - specific consideration during meiosis .
in prophase i , when the homologous chromosome synapse and homologous recombination occur , x and y chromosome pairing be limit to a region term the pseudoautosomal region , leave large portion of each chromosome unpaired .
in eutherian and marsupial mammal , these unpaired chromosome region be associate with a specialize chromatin domain term the xy body or sex body .
the function of the xy body be uncertain [ 7 – 11 ] , but there be evidence that it be essential for male meiotic progression [ 12 ] .
several protein be report to localize to the xy body , include brca1 , atr , the histone variant h3.3 , and modify histone such a ubiquitinated h2a ( ub - h2a ) and phosphorylated h2ax ( γh2ax ) [ 12 – 15 ] .
in the xy body , the sex chromosome be transcriptionally silence in a process term meiotic sex chromosome inactivation ( msci ) .
the xy body disappear after pachynema ; however , many sex - link gene remain transcriptionally silent into spermiogenesis [ 16 ] .
this maintenance of silencing be associate with a distinct set of chromatin mark that define a sex chromatin domain term postmeiotic sex chromatin ( pmsc ) [ 16 , 17 ] .
regulator of sexual differentiation have be identify in a number of organism , but in contrast to many other developmental process , such a axial patterning or development of many body part , the molecular mechanism that regulate sexual differentiation be highly variable between phylum .
a notable exception involve gene relate to doublesex ( dsx ) of drosophila , which share a doublesex / mab - 3 dna - bind motif call the dm domain [ 18 , 19 ] .
dm domain – encode gene have be show to regulate various aspect of sexual differentiation in insect , nematode , and mammal [ 20 ] .
the mab - 3 gene of caenorhabditis elegans have be show to function analogously to dsx in several respect and can be functionally replace by the male isoform of dsx , suggest that the similarity in the sequence of these gene may stem from conservation of an ancestral dm domain sexual regulator [ 18 , 21 , 22 ] .
vertebrate also have dm domain gene , and analysis to date , although limited , have show that these gene also control sexual differentiation .
mammal have seven dm domain gene ( dmrt gene ) , several of which exhibit sexually dimorphic mrna expression [ 23 , 24 ] .
the best study of these gene , dmrt1 , be express in the differentiate male genital ridge and adult testis of mammal , bird , fish , and reptile , and a recently duplicate dmrt1 gene function a the y - link testis - determine gene in the medaka fish [ 25 – 29 ] .
human dmrt1 map to an autosomal locus , which , when hemizygous , be associate with defective testicular development and consequent xy feminization [ 30 ] .
similarly , mouse homozygous for a null mutation in dmrt1 have severe defect in testis differentiation involve both germ cell and sertoli cell [ 31 ] .
female mouse mutant in dmrt4 have polyovular follicle , indicate that this gene also play a role in gonadal development [ 32 ] .
it appear from these study that the involvement of dm domain gene in sexual differentiation be ancient and conserved .
however , vertebrate dmrt gene function be not limited to sexual differentiation : dmrt2 be require in both sex for segmentation in mouse and fish [ 33 – 35 ] .
here , we have investigate the expression and function of the dmrt7 gene in the mouse .
dmrt7 be express only in the gonad , and , unlike the other dmrt gene , appear to be present exclusively in mammal and not in nonmammalian vertebrate [ 23 , 36 ] .
we find that dmrt7 protein be express only in germ cell and be selectively localize to the xy body of male pachytene germ cell .
to test it function , we generate a conditional null mutation of dmrt7 in the mouse .
we find that dmrt7 be require in male for progression beyond the pachytene stage of meiotic prophase but be not require in female .
in rare mutant cell that survive to diplonema , we observe sex chromatin abnormality .
base on these observation , we suggest that dmrt7 play a critical role in a male - specific chromatin transition between pachynema and diplonema during meiotic prophase .
result
expression of dmrt7 protein in testis
our previous mrna expression analysis suggest a possible meiotic function for dmrt7 , base on the expression of dmrt7 mrna in the fetal gonad of the two sex [ 23 ] .
in the fetal ovary , dmrt7 mrna be detect primarily from e13.5 to e15.5 , the time during which meiosis progress from pre-meiotic replication to the pachytene stage [ 4 ] , whereas dmrt7 expression in the non-meiotic fetal testis be very low .
because this early work do not examine adult dmrt7 expression , we first perform reverse transcriptase ( rt ) - pcr on mrna from ten adult organ and detect strong dmrt7 mrna expression in the testis and a trace of expression in heart , but not in any other tissue test ( figure 1a ) .
we examine the timing of dmrt7 mrna expression during postnatal testis development and detect strong expression begin at 2 wk , which roughly coincide with the onset of the pachytene stage during the first synchronous wave of spermatogenesis ( figure 1b ) [ 37 ] .
figure 1
expression of dmrt7 mrna and protein
( a ) rt - pcr analysis of dmrt7 mrna from ten organ of adult mouse .
cdna from each organ be amplify with primer specific for dmrt7 ( top row ) and β - actin ( bottom row ) .
( b ) dmrt7 mrna expression during the first round of spermatogenesis .
cdna obtain from testis at the indicate day after birth be amplify a in ( a ) .
( c ) dmrt7 protein expression .
immunofluorescence of testis section from 6 - wk - old male stain with antibody to dmrt7 ( green ) and dapi ( blue ) .
( d ) dmrt7 subcellular localization to xy body .
testis section from 6 - wk - old male stain with antibody to dmrt7 ( red ) and sumo - 1 ( green ) .
sumo - 1 be localize to the xy body .
right-most panel show merge of other two panel .
insert show high magnification of pachytene spermatocyte with xy body .
to investigate dmrt7 protein expression , we generate an antibody against the c - terminal portion of the protein .
the antibody be raise against a unique region lack the dm domain in order to avoid cross-reaction with other dm domain protein .
immunofluorescent staining with purify dmrt7 antiserum show that dmrt7 protein be express predominantly in mid - to late - pachytene spermatocyte ( figure 1c ) , as well a in sperm , and be not detectable in other germ cell type include spermatogonia and round spermatid .
we do not detect dmrt7 protein in somatic cell such a sertoli cell , peritubular myoid cell , or leydig cell .
to more precisely determine the pachytene stage of dmrt7 expression , we double - stain with an antibody to gata1 , which be express in sertoli cell from stage vii to ix [ 38 ] .
this confirm that dmrt7 be express in mid - to late - pachytene spermatocyte , start slightly earlier than stage vii and extend through stage ix ( unpublished data ) .
within pachytene spermatocyte , dmrt7 be concentrate in the xy body , or sex body , a densely stain chromatin domain that harbor the sex chromosome .
these undergo transcriptional inactivation and heterochromatinization a a result of their incomplete pairing during prophase of mammalian male meiosis [ 17 ] .
to verify dmrt7 protein expression in the xy body , we double - stain mouse testis section for dmrt7 and small ubiquitin - relate modifier 1 ( sumo - 1 ) , which be concentrate in the xy body during pachynema [ 39 , 40 ] .
dmrt7 and sumo - 1 be colocalized , confirm that dmrt7 protein be preferentially localize to the xy body ( figure 1d ) .
we also confirm xy body localization of dmrt7 by double staining for other marker include ub - h2a and γh2ax ( unpublished data ) .
dmrt7 be not preferentially localize to the xy body at all stage but instead be dynamic .
base on epithelial staging , it appear that dmrt7 localize to the xy body from mid - to late - pachynema , become diffusely distributed in late - pachynema , and disappear in diplonema ( unpublished data ) .
this localization be confirm by staining of meiotic spread ( figure s1 ) .
dmrt7 also be specifically localize in sperm , with antibody staining mainly in the perinuclear ring of the sperm head manchette .
this staining coincide with the epithelial stage in which dmrt7 localize to the xy body in spermatocyte ( figure 1c and 1d ) .
target deletion of dmrt7
to establish the functional requirement for dmrt7 , we generate dmrt7 − / − mouse by target disruption in embryonic stem ( e ) cell use a strategy diagram in figure s2a .
the dmrt7 gene have nine exon with the dm domain encode by the second and third exon .
because the dm domain be essential for function of other gene , include mab - 3 , mab - 23 , and dsx [ 18 , 19 , 41 ] , we generate a conditionally target “ floxed ” allele in which the dm domain – contain exon of dmrt7 be flank by recognition site for the cre recombinase ( loxp site ) .
the targeting vector also contain a neomycin resistance cassette ( neo ) flank by flpe recognition site .
the removal of these sequence by cre - mediate recombination eliminate the dm domain and the translational start site , thus generate a putative null allele .
we identify three homologously target e cell clone by southern blotting ( figure s2b ) and inject cell from two clone into c57bl / 6 blastocyst .
chimeric animal from both cell line transmit the target allele through the germ line .
target animal be breed to β - actin cre mouse to delete the dm domain – encode exon , generate the dmrt7 − allele , or to flpe transgenic mouse to delete the neo cassette , generate the dmrt7flox allele .
dmrt7 + / − mouse be interbreed to generate dmrt7 − / − mouse .
to confirm the lack of functional dmrt7 protein in dmrt7 − / − testis , we stain meiotic spread from dmrt7 mutant ( figure s1 ) and section from mutant testis ( figure s2c ) and carry out western blot analysis ( unpublished data ) .
in each case , we detect no dmrt7 protein in the mutant testis .
dmrt7 be require for male but not female gametogenesis
breeding of dmrt7 heterozygote produce homozygous mutant progeny of both sex at the expect frequency ( 63 / 264 ; 23 % ) .
male and female homozygous mutant be viable , grow to adulthood normally , and exhibit normal sexual behavior .
female homozygote be fertile , produce litter of normal size , and have no obvious ovarian abnormality a judge by histological analysis ( unpublished data ) .
in contrast , dmrt7 homozygous mutant male be completely infertile and have testis about one - third the weight of those of heterozygous or wild - type adult littermates ( figure 2 ) .
to determine when defective testis development begin in dmrt7 mutant , we compare the testis of wild - type and mutant littermates during the first wave of spermatogenesis .
prior to postnatal day 14 ( p14 ) , mutant testis appear histologically normal and the testis weight be similar to those of heterozygous and wild - type littermates , indicate that spermatogonia and early meiotic germ cell form normally ( figure 2b ; unpublished data ) .
thereafter , the testis of the dmrt7 mutant mouse cease to grow and the weight difference be significant .
microscopic examination of p21 and p42 dmrt7 mutant testis reveal that germ cell arrest in pachynema , and late stage of germ cell be largely missing ( figure 2c and 2d ) .
dmrt7 mutant mouse be deficient in postmeiotic spermatid and lack epididymal spermatozoon , although a few cell develop to the round spermatid stage .
these meiotic defect be in agreement with a recent preliminary analysis of another dmrt7 mutation [ 42 ] .
while some dmrt7 mutant tubule be highly vacuolated and contain primarily sertoli cell and spermatogonia , others have abundant primary spermatocyte .
in addition , some tubule contain multinucleated cell and cell with darkly stain nucleus that be typical of apoptotic cell ( figure 2d ) .
figure 2
reduce testis size and germ cell apoptosis in mouse with target deletion in dmrt7
( a ) testis from a 6 - wk - old wild - type ( + / + ) mouse and a homozygous ( − / − ) dmrt7 mutant littermate .
( b – d ) section of testis from 14 - d - old ( b ) , 21 - d - old ( c ) , and 42 - d - old mouse ( d ) stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
wild - type be in left column and mutant in right .
no significant difference be observe at 14 d ( b ) , but by 21 d some tubule be lack abundant spermatocyte ( c , asterisk ) or cell with typical apoptotic morphology be present ( open arrowhead , c and d ) .
mutant tubule contain multinucleate cell ( close arrowhead , d ) .
( e and f ) tunel labeling of dmrt7 - deficient mouse testis .
testis from wild - type and homozygous mutant littermates be analyze by tunel labeling to detect apoptotic cell .
testis section from 21 - d - old ( e ) and 6 - wk - old mouse ( f ) .
apoptotic cell ( brown ) be much more abundant in seminiferous tubule of homozygous dmrt7 mutant mouse relative to wild - type .
bar in ( b – f ) represent 100 μm .
since dmrt7 mutant testis lack most post-pachytene cell , we use tunel analysis to test whether the missing cell be eliminate by apoptosis .
at 3 wk , dmrt7 mutant testis contain significantly more apoptotic cell than those of wild - type control .
the percentage of tubule section with five or more apoptotic nucleus be about three time high in dmrt7 mutant compare with wild - type ( 20 % versus 7 % ; figure 2e ) .
a similar elevation of apoptosis be apparent in mutant testis at 7 wk ( figure 2f ) .
in mutant , many apoptotic cell be in the middle of the tubule , whereas the apoptotic cell in wild - type occur mainly near the seminiferous tubule periphery .
the number of sertoli cell be not significantly different between wild - type and mutant testis , and we observe no difference in somatic cell apoptosis in mutant ( unpublished data ) .
from these result , we conclude that loss of dmrt7 cause a block in meiotic progression , mainly in pachynema , lead to the elimination , by apoptosis , of the arrest cell .
pachytene arrest of dmrt7 mutant germ cell
to well define the spermatogenic stage at which dmrt7 − / − male germ cell arrest and die , we use antibody against several stage - specific germ cell marker .
tra98 be express in pgcs and spermatogonia [ 43 ] .
in the wild - type adult testis , strongly stain tra98 - positive cell form a layer one cell deep ; however , in the mutant tra98 , strongly positive cell be abnormally organized , and some tubule have a layer several cell deep ( figure 3a ) .
the bc7 antibody recognize spermatocyte in the leptotene to early - pachytene stage [ 44 ] .
dmrt7 mutant testis have bc7 - positive cell in approximately normal number , but again abnormally organize , with many positive cell in the center rather than the periphery of the tubule ( figure 3b ) .
the tra369 antibody recognize a calmegin protein express in pachytene spermatocyte through elongate spermatid [ 45 ] .
in contrast to the early stage , far few tra369 - positive cell be present in mutant testis relative to wild - type ( figure 3c ) .
we also quantitated the number of cell at each meiotic stage use spermatocyte spread , assay chromosome - pair status by stain for sycp3 , a component of the synaptonemal complex ( figure 4 ) .
we find that dmrt7 mutant accumulate pachytene cell but have greatly reduce number of cell in late - pachynema and beyond .
together , these result confirm that the meiotic arrest in dmrt7 mutant occur primarily during pachynema and result in efficient elimination of arrest cell .
figure 3
prophase i arrest of dmrt7 mutant germ cell
testis section from 6 - wk - old wild - type ( + / + ) and dmrt7 mutant ( − / − ) littermates stain with stage - specific antibody specific to spermatogenic cell .
( a ) tra98 antibody strongly stain spermatogonia , which be present in wild - type and mutant .
( b ) bc7 antibody stain spermatocyte , which be present in wild - type and mutant .
( c ) tra369 antibody stain pachytene and late germ cell , which be severely deficient in the mutant testis .
figure 4
profile of meiotic arrest in dmrt7 mutant testis
graph of distribution of meiotic stage of germ cell from heterozygous ( n = 1,970 ) and homozygous mutant ( n = 2,084 ) p26 testis , spread and stain for the synaptonemal complex protein sycp3 to permit precise staging , which be perform a describe [ 64 , 65 ] .
normal meiotic prophase in dmrt7 mutant germ cell
defect in chromosome pairing , synapsis , or recombination can trigger pachytene arrest and apoptosis [ 46 ] .
we therefore examine these event in dmrt7 mutant testis .
to assess homolog synapsis , we use antibody to sycp1 , a synaptonemal complex transverse element component , and sycp3 , a component of the axial element , which remain on the desynapsed ax during diplonema [ 47 , 48 ] .
formation of synaptonemal complex in the mutant be indistinguishable from that in wild - type , a indicate by the proper accumulation of sycp1 ( unpublished data ) and sycp3 ( figure 5a ) .
likewise , the dmrt7 mutant zygotene spermatocyte show normal accumulation of the early recombination repair marker rad51 , suggest that early meiotic recombination be not significantly affect ( figure 5b ) .
dmrt7 mutant spermatocyte exhibit the expect decline in the presence of rad51 focus associate with the autosomal synaptonemal complex ( figure 5b ; unpublished data ) [ 49 ] .
the few survive cell that progress beyond pachynema also undergo apparently normal desynapsis during diplonema ( figure 5a ) .
from these result , we conclude that chromosomal pairing , synapsis , recombination , and desynapsis during prophase i in dmrt7 mutant male be grossly normal .
figure 5
normal synapsis and recombination in dmrt7 mutant germ cell
( a ) testicular cell from dmrt7 heterozygous ( + / − ) or homozygous ( − / − ) mutant mouse be spread and stain with antibody to sycp3 ( red ) .
the developmental stage of meiotic prophase base on sycp3 organization be indicate in each panel .
by pachynema , all autosome be fully synapsed , and the xy bivalent be synapsed only at the pseudoautosomal region in both wild - type and mutant cell .
( b ) testicular cell in zygonema and pachynema spread and stain with antibody to rad51 ( green ) and sycp3 ( red ) .
size and distribution of rad51 focus be similar between wild - type and mutant spermatocyte .
abnormal cellular organization and the role of sertoli cell
sertoli cell interact with germ cell during spermatogenesis and the interaction be critical for germ cell maturation [ 50 ] .
although we do not detect dmrt7 expression in sertoli cell by antibody staining , we nevertheless consider the possibility that sertoli cell defect might contribute to the male - specific germ line failure of dmrt7 mutant .
to characterize sertoli cell differentiation , we examine expression of the sertoli cell marker gata4 ( a marker of immature postnatal sertoli cell ) and gata1 ( a mature sertoli cell marker ) .
the level of these protein appear normal relative to wild - type at p14 and p42 ( figure 6a – 6c ) , a do the androgen receptor ( figure s3 ; unpublished data ) .
however , the organization of sertoli cell in dmrt7 mutant testis be abnormal : in some tubule gata1 - positive sertoli cell nucleus be displace from their usual close apposition with the basement membrane ( figure 6c ) .
in such tubule , nucleus of pre-meiotic germ cell and spermatocyte be pack close to the basal membrane and few germ cell be find in the adlumenal region .
figure 6
abnormal sertoli cell organization in dmrt7 mutant testis
( a ) testis from p14 wild - type and dmrt7 mutant mouse be section and stain with antibody to gata4 .
( b ) p14 testis section stain with antibody to gata1 .
at p14 , gata4 and gata1 level be similar in wild - type and mutant sertoli cell .
( c ) wild - type and mutant testis section double - stain with antibody to gata1 ( red ) and dapi ( blue ) .
most sertoli cell nucleus be adjacent to the basal membrane in wild - type , but mutant sertoli cell be displace in some tubule ( arrowhead ) .
white dot line indicate position of basal membrane .
( d ) testis section from 10 - wk - old wild - type and sertoli cell - specific dmrt7 mutant ( sc - dmrt7ko ) mouse stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
spermatogenesis and spermiogenesis be normal in sc - dmrt7ko testis .
( e ) testis section from 10 - wk - old wild - type and sc - dmrt7ko mouse stain with antibody to gata1 ( red ) and smooth muscle actin ( to outline seminiferous tubule ; green ) .
sertoli cell nucleus be position normally near the basal membrane in sc - dmrt7ko mouse .
the aberrant sertoli cell organization in dmrt7 mutant testis raise the possibility that the germ cell phenotype might indirectly result from defect in sertoli cell function .
to test this possibility , we delete dmrt7 just in the sertoli cell lineage by cross mouse carry the floxed dmrt7 allele with dhh - cre transgenic mouse [ 51 ] .
the desert hedgehog ( dhh ) promoter be active start at about e12.5 in pre-sertoli cell but not in germ cell , allow deletion of dmrt7 in sertoli cell well before any likely requirement for it function [ 52 ] .
testicular size in sertoli - target ( sc - dmrt7ko ) animal be slightly reduce from that of wild - type , but histological analysis reveal no obvious difference between wild - type and sc - dmrt7ko testis ( figure 6d ) .
spermatogenesis appear normal , mature sperm be present , and sc - dmrt7ko mouse be fertile .
in addition , gata1 staining show that sertoli cell nucleus be locate adjacent to the basement membrane a in wild - type ( figure 6e ) .
these result suggest the germ cell defect of dmrt7 mutant be not cause by lack of dmrt7 in sertoli cell .
rather , the abnormal organization of sertoli cell appear to result from lack of dmrt7 in the germ line .
xy body form normally in dmrt7 mutant cell
the data present so far indicate that dmrt7 mutant germ cell undergo apparently normal early meiosis and then arrest during pachynema due to a strict requirement for dmrt7 in the germ line .
to well understand the basis of the meiotic arrest , we more closely examine meiotic germ cell in the mutant .
we focus on the xy body , which be think to be essential for meiotic progression and be the site of preferential dmrt7 localization .
condensation of the x and y chromosome begin in late - zygotene cell , and , by mid-pachynema ( when homologous chromosome pair be fully align ) the sex chromatin form a microscopically visible spherical structure near the nuclear periphery [ 53 ] .
we first ask whether dmrt7 be require for xy body formation by evaluate several characteristic xy body chromatin feature .
first , we test γh2ax expression by immunofluorescent staining .
h2ax be a variant of h2a that be crucial for xy body formation and msci [ 12 ] .
γh2ax localize normally to the xy body of dmrt7 mutant cell in meiotic spread ( figure 7a ) , and many γh2ax - positive puncta be present in germ cell of dmrt7 mutant testis ( figure 7b ) .
next , we examine sumo - 1 localization in the mutant testis .
sumo - 1 expression normally increase in the xy body of early - to mid-pachytene spermatocyte at the time of sex chromosome condensation .
prior to the completion of the first meiotic division , sumo - 1 disappear from the xy body a the x and y chromosome desynapse [ 40 ] .
punctate sumo - 1 localization be present in dmrt7 mutant germ cell , again consistent with formation of a correctly marked xy body ( figure 7c ) .
however , some tubule in mutant have multiple layer of cell with sumo - 1 - condense spot ( figure 7c ) , rather than the normal single layer of cell .
this accumulation of xy body – contain cell also be apparent with γh2ax staining and be consistent with a developmental arrest of mutant cell in mid - to late - pachytene .
we also examine ub - h2a localization in dmrt7 mutant testis .
in early - pachytene , ub - h2a be concentrate in the xy body ; by mid-pachytene ub - h2a be observe throughout the entire nucleus , but it again become limited to the xy body in late - pachytene spermatocyte [ 13 ] .
analysis of nuclear spread reveal that ub - h2a localize normally to the xy body in dmrt7 mutant ( figure s4 ) .
collectively , these result indicate that dmrt7 mutant germ cell can establish an xy body with at least some of the normal chromatin mark .
figure 7
xy body form normally during pachynema in dmrt7 mutant mouse
( a ) testicular cell spread and stain with antibody to γh2ax ( red ) and sycp3 ( green ) .
in pachytene cell , γh2ax be concentrate in the xy body both in wild - type and dmrt7 mutant .
( b ) testis from 6 - wk - old mouse section and stain with antibody to γh2ax ( red ) .
( c ) testis from 6 - wk - old mouse section and stain with antibody to sumo - 1 ( green ) .
abundant pachytene cell with xy body be present in wild - type and mutant testis .
abnormal sex chromatin in dmrt7 mutant germ cell
although the xy body can form during pachynema in dmrt7 mutant , we consider the possibility that transcriptional silencing might not be properly establish .
this would be consistent with the dmrt7 phenotype : pachytene cell that escape from msci normally be eliminate prior to late - pachytene [ 17 ] .
recently , msci have be show to continue into meiosis ii and spermiogenesis , apparently mediate by a distinct chromatin compartment term postmeiotic sex chromatin ( pmsc ) that be establish start in diplonema [ 16 ] .
we therefore ask whether the pachytene germ cell death in dmrt7 mutant be associate with a failure either to initiate or to maintain sex chromosome inactivation .
first , we examine the mid-pachytene xy body .
to examine xy transcriptional status , we carry out cot - 1 rna fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) to detect nascent rna polymerase ii transcription , combine with dapi staining to locate the xy body on spread of seminiferous tubule ( figure 8a and 8b ) .
in dmrt7 mutant , the xy body be form and exclude cot - 1 hybridization ( figure 8b ) , indicate that transcriptional silencing be establish normally in mutant pachytene cell .
we also examine expression of the y - link gene rbmy , which normally be inactivate during pachytene and reactivate after secondary meiosis begin [ 54 , 55 ] .
rbmy be inactivate normally in pachytene cell of dmrt7 mutant , base on immunofluorescent staining with an anti-rbmy antibody ( figure s5 ) .
we also examine heterochromatin protein 1 beta ( hp1β ) , which normally localize to the x centromere at mid-pachynema and then spread through the xy body a it internalize during diplonema [ 56 ] .
we find that hp1β localization be normal in dmrt7 mutant cell in mid-pachynema ( figure 8c and 8d ) .
these result suggest that xy body formation and initiation of msci both occur normally in dmrt7 mutant germ cell .
figure 8
chromatin abnormality in dmrt7 mutant diplotene germ cell
( a and b ) msci occur normally in mid-pachytene spermatocyte of dmrt7 mutant .
arrow indicate xy body in all panel .
cot - 1 rna fish ( red ) reveal normal silencing of sex chromosome transcription in xy body .
this be consistent with wild - type mid-pachynema a describe previously [ 16 ] .
( c and d ) hp1β localization in mid-pachytene spermatocyte .
hp1β localize to x chromosome centromere ( arrowhead ) in wild - type ( c ) and mutant ( d ) .
( e and f ) cot - 1 hybridization in diplotene .
presumptive xy body , base on dapi and γh2ax localization , be indicate by arrow in ( f ) .
( g and h ) hp1β in diplotene .
wild - type cell ( e ) have hp1β throughout xy body , whereas mutant cell ( h ) only have localization to x chromosome centromere ( arrowhead ) .
( i and j ) h3 - 2mek9 localization in diplotene cell .
mutant cell ( j ) lack strong concentration of this mark to the xy body see in wild - type ( i ) .
( k and l ) h3 - 3mek9 localization in diplotene cell .
mutant cell ( l ) have no localization of this mark to the xy body .
γh2ax localize to autosome in mutant cell , possibly indicate onset of apoptosis .
( m ) example of mutant diplotene cell with normal hp1β accumulation to the xy body .
all image except those in ( m ) be single z section .
we next consider the possibility that sex chromatin be establish normally but be not properly modify a cell exit pachynema and begin to form pmsc .
although most dmrt7 mutant cell be eliminate by apoptosis prior to diplonema , we be able to examine epigenetic marker of pmsc in rare dmrt7 mutant spermatocyte that escape pachytene arrest and progress into diplonema .
first , we examine nascent transcription by cot - 1 hybridization .
although heterochromatic region generally show low cot - 1 signal than euchromatic region ( figure 8e and 8f ) , in some mutant cell the sex chromatin appear to be incompletely silenced relative to wild - type ( figure 8f ) .
we also examine three epigenetic signature of pmsc : histone h3 dimethylated or trimethylated at lysine - 9 ( h3 - 2mek9 , h3 - 3mek9 ) and spreading of hp1β through the xy body [ 16 , 57 , 58 ] ( s. h. namekawa , unpublished data ) .
we observe defect in sex chromatin localization of all three marker in dmrt7 diplotene cell .
although hp1β localization to the x chromosome centromere initially appear normal at mid-pachynema , we observe dmrt7 mutant diplotene cell that fail to show spreading of hp1β to the entire xy body ( figure 8g and 8h ) .
similarly , we find dmrt7 mutant diplotene cell lack accumulation of h3 - 2mek9 and h3 - 3mek9 mark onto the sex chromatin ( figure 8i – 8l ) .
not all dmrt7 mutant diplotene cell show abnormal localization of hp1β to the sex chromatin ( figure 8m ) .
in one experiment , 11 / 27 mutant cell in diplonema lack hp1β on the xy body , a compare with 2 / 22 wild - type cell .
we hypothesize that the mutant cell with normal hp1β may be those that can complete meiosis ( figure 4 and 5 ) .
some of the mutant diplotene cell show abnormal sex chromatin also have abnormal autosomal γh2ax staining ( figure 8l ) .
γh2ax localize to double - strand dna break , so this staining may indicate that some diplotene mutant cell be approach or enter apoptosis [ 59 ] .
we do not observe sex chromatin defect prior to diplonema , but we can not exclude the possibility that early defect exist and the affect cell be rapidly eliminate .
in the precede experiment , we stag cell base on xy body internalization .
because this process could be abnormal in the mutant cell , we also stag mutant cell by chromosome morphology use an antibody to sycp3 ( figure 9 ) .
this independently identify dmrt7 mutant diplotene cell lack hp1β accumulation in the xy body , such a the example in figure 9b .
from these result , we conclude that dmrt7 mutant cell establish a normal xy body in mid-pachynema , but then have multiple epigenetic defect in the sex chromatin transition from pachynema to diplonema .
figure 9
abnormal sex chromatin in cell stag by chromosome pair status
( a ) spread of wild - type germ cell stain with dapi , anti-sycp3 , and anti-hp1β show chromosome morphology typical of diplonema and internalize xy body with hp1β accumulation .
( b ) spread of dmrt7 mutant germ cell show normal diplotene chromosome morphology and internalize xy body , but no hp1β accumulation in the xy body .
xy chromosome pair be indicate by arrow .
discussion
in this study , we find that the dm domain protein dmrt7 be require for male germ cell to complete meiotic prophase but be dispensable in the female germ line .
in male , dmrt7 expression be high in pachytene spermatocyte , and the protein preferentially localize to the xy body .
consistent with this expression , we find that most mutant male germ cell arrest in pachynema and undergo apoptosis , although a small proportion can progress to diplonema and sometimes beyond .
examination of chromatin and nascent transcription in mutant cell that progress to diplonema reveal sex chromatin abnormality , a discuss below .
the pachytene stage of prophase involve tremendous chromosomal change a the homologs align , synapse , and recombine .
during this period , at least one pachytene surveillance system exist to monitor key event of meiotic progression .
cell in which any of these event be anomalous be efficiently eliminate by apoptosis [ 46 ] .
another key event of pachynema in male mammal be the packaging of the sex chromosome into the xy body and the establishment of msci .
examination of male meiosis in xyy mouse and mouse carry a sex - chromosome - to - autosome translocation show that cell in which a sex chromosome escape msci be eliminate prior to late - pachynema [ 17 ] .
this indicate that the establishment of msci also be subject to surveillance .
since the arrest and apoptosis of dmrt7 mutant spermatocyte could result from perturbation of any of the critical pachytene event mention above , we test whether they occur abnormally in the mutant cell .
we find that chromosomal synapsis and recombination appear normal in dmrt7 mutant cell .
we therefore focus on the xy body , the most prominent site of dmrt7 accumulation .
first , we test whether the xy body form and msci be establish in dmrt7 mutant cell .
surprisingly , we find that these cell form an xy body with normal morphology and proper accumulation of all the chromatin mark we examine .
moreover , cot - 1 hybridization and analysis of rbmy expression demonstrate that msci initiate normally in the xy body of mid-pachytene dmrt7 mutant cell .
we do , however , observe three specific defect in the sex chromatin of dmrt7 mutant germ cell that avoid arrest in pachynema and be able to enter diplonema .
normally cell accumulate h3 - 2mek9 and h3 - 3mek9 mark and hp1β protein on the sex chromatin a they progress to diplonema , but we observe mutant diplotene cell lack these feature .
thus , although a minority of dmrt7 mutant germ cell can progress from pachynema to diplonema , there be defect in sex chromatin modification during the transition .
a function in male sex chromatin can reconcile the finding that dmrt7 be require for meiosis , but only in male , and be present only in mammal .
a proportion of mutant diplotene cell have apparently normal sex chromatin ( for example , figure 8m ) ; these be likely to be the cell that can progress beyond diplonema .
because most dmrt7 mutant germ cell be eliminate by apoptosis around the time at which we observe sex chromatin defect , a simple model be that the apoptosis be a consequence of the sex chromatin defect .
the reciprocal situation ( sex chromatin defect cause by apoptosis ) be possible , but seem unlikely , because we observe mutant cell with sex chromatin defect but no indication of apoptosis .
alternatively , apoptosis and abnormal sex chromatin may be two independent consequence of dmrt7 loss .
this question can not be answer definitively until we know the detailed molecular mechanism of dmrt7 .
a number of other protein have be identify that interact with the xy body , include histone variant and modify histone , a testis - specific histone methyl transferase , chromobox protein , an orphan receptor germ - cell nuclear factor , and recombination - relate protein [ 60 ] .
a common feature of these protein be involvement with heterochromatin and / or transcriptional repression .
dmrt7 be unusual among xy body protein in be related to highly site - specific transcriptional regulator .
an attractive speculation be that dmrt7 may provide sequence specificity in recruit other protein , such a chromatin modifier , to the xy body a part of the transition to pmsc .
chromatin regulation may be a common mechanism for dm domain protein , a we find that other dm domain protein associate with chromatin modifying complex ( m. w. murphy , d. zarkower , and v. j. bardwell , unpublished data ) .
the finding that dmrt7 be essential for mammalian meiosis expand the know function of this gene family .
invertebrate dm domain gene so far have only be find to function in somatic cell .
two other dm domain gene , dmrt1 and dmrt4 , do affect germ cell development in the mouse .
dmrt1 be require in pre-meiotic male germ cell for differentiation of gonocytes into spermatogonia , as well a in sertoli cell , but it be not express in meiotic cell [ 31 ] ( s. kim and d. zarkower , unpublished data ) .
the requirement for dmrt1 in pre-meiotic germ cell and dmrt7 in meiotic germ cell demonstrate that dm domain protein act at multiple critical point of male germ cell development .
ovary of dmrt4 mutant female have polyovular follicle ( follicle contain multiple oocyte ) , but it be unknown whether this reflect a defect in the germ line or the soma .
it be notable that at least three mammalian dm domain gene affect gonadal development only in one sex , give the similar role of related protein in direct sex - specific somatic development in other phylum .
strikingly , dmrt7 be present , not only in placental mammal , but also in marsupial and a monotreme ( egg - lay mammal ) , the platypus , which have a clear dmrt7 ortholog [ 36 ] .
however , no close dmrt7 ortholog have be report in nonmammalian vertebrate , and our database search do not reveal one .
thus , dmrt7 likely arise , presumably by duplication and divergence of another dmrt gene , shortly before or coincident with the mammalian radiation .
monotreme have five x and five y chromosome , which form an extend pairing chain during meiosis and appear unrelated to the sex chromosome of the other mammal [ 61 ] .
the presence of dmrt7 in both lineage may support a common origin for either the sex chromosome or the sex chromatin of monotreme and other mammal .
a plausible model be that dmrt7 evolve during the establishment of mammalian sex determination to help cope with ancestral difference in gene dosage , chromosome pairing , recombination , or other meiotic issue arise from sex chromosome heteromorphy .
in this regard , we speculate that the recruitment of dmrt7 during mammalian evolution may be analogous to the recruitment of chromatin regulatory complex to achieve somatic dosage compensation during evolution of heteromorphic sex chromosome in several phylum ( review in [ 62 ] ) .
it will be of interest to determine whether dmrt7 localize to sex chromosome during monotreme meiosis .
in summary , we have find that the mammal - specific dm domain protein dmrt7 be essential for meiotic prophase progression in male .
dmrt7 localize to the sex chromosome after they be assemble into specialized heterochromatin , and many dmrt7 mutant cell have epigenetic defect in the modification of the sex chromatin between pachytene and diplotene .
although dmrt7 belong to an ancient and conserve gene family , it be find only in mammal , and to our knowledge dmrt7 be the only example of a mammal - specific protein that be essential for meiosis .
it will be important to determine the precise mechanism by which dmrt7 affect sex chromatin regulation during male meiosis .
material and method
generation of dmrt7 mouse .
a mouse dmrt7 cdna fragment contain sequence from exon 8 be use to screen a mouse bac library from the 129 / svj strain ( stratagene , http://www.stratagene.com ) , and clone contain promoter sequence be isolate and sequence to obtain dmrt7 genomic sequence .
the targeting vector pdz169 ( diagram in figure s2 ) be construct by the follow scheme : the vector pdz157 be use a a backbone vector [ 31 ] .
3 ′ to pgk - neo and the loxp site , we insert , a a xmai / xmai dna fragment , the third intron of dmrt7 ( from 366 bp to 2,773 bp downstream of exon 3 ) generate by pcr .
5 ′ to pgk - neo , we insert an ecori / noti pcr fragment extend from 4,107 bp to 336 bp 5 ′ of the dmrt7 translational start .
finally , we insert a loxp site and noti site 336 bp 5 ′ of the dmrt7 translational start .
in the result vector , the second and third exon of dmrt7 be flank by loxp site ( floxed ) .
the dmrt7 - contain portion of pdz169 be completely sequence .
pdz169 be linearize with pmei and electroporated into cj7 e cell ( originally derive from the 129s1 strain ) .
three homologous recombinant be identify from 296 g418 - resistant colony by southern hybridization by use of a dna probe from the sequence upstream of exon 1 to screen genomic dna digest with ecori .
homologous recombination be confirm on both end of the target region by southern hybridization .
probe for southern hybridization be make by pcr use primer dm5s10 / dm5s11 ( 5 ′ probe ) and dm5pr1 / dm5pr2 ( 3 ′ probe ) , list below .
two target e cell clone contain the floxed allele dmrt7neo be inject into c57bl / 6 blastocyst to generate chimera .
chimeric male be breed with c57bl / 6 female to generate heterozygote carry dmrt7neo .
dmrt7 + / dmrt7neo female be breed with male β - actin - cre transgenic mouse to delete the floxed sequence and generate heterozygous dmrt7 − / + deletion mutant , which be interbreed to generate homozygous dmrt7 − / − mutant .
genotyping and rt - pcr .
for genotyping , tail - clip dna be amplify for 35 cycle .
chromosomal sex be determine by pcr with primer to the y chromosome gene zfy ( below ) .
the wild - type dmrt7 allele dmrt7 + be detect by pcr with dm5s4 / dm5s5 , with an annealing temperature of 60 °c .
the dmrt7flox allele be detect by pcr with dm5s5f / dm7ko7r with an annealing temperature of 62 °c .
the delete dmrt7 allele dmrt7 − be detect with dm5s3 / dm7ko7r with an annealing temperature of 62 °c .
rt - pcr for dmrt7 expression analysis be a describe [ 23 ] use primer sk111 / sk112 with an annealing temperature of 62 °c .
primer .
dm5s3 : 5 ′ - agagtggattgaatcggatagctc - 3 ′
dm5s4 : 5 ′ - aggatcttagtgtcgaatgaatac - 3 ′
dm5s5 : 5 ′ - cccttatcctcctgcatccagatc - 3 ′
dm5s10 : 5 ′ - caggctatggttagacttgagcac - 3 ′
dm5s11 : 5 ′ - catcactcgcggacaaagatgcag - 3 ′
dm5pr1 : 5 ′ - cttctgctacagccacaggtctgg - 3 ′
dm5pr2 : 5 ′ - gaattcaactagtatctgtccc - 3 ′
dm7ko7r : 5 ′ - cgaggatcaagctcaggtcactagg - 3 ′
dm5s5f : 5 ′ - gatctggatgcaggaggataaggg - 3 ′
zfyf : 5 ′ - cctattgcatggacagcagtcttatg - 3 ′
zfyr : 5 ′ - gactagacatgttcttaacatctgtcc - 3 ′
sk111 : 5 ′ - cccttctggaaaagagaacatagc - 3 ′
sk112 : 5 ′ - gctccaggggcctgtggctgtagc - 3 ′
β - actinf : 5 ′ - tgcgtgacatcaaagagaag - 3 ′
β - actinr : 5 ′ - gatgccacaggattccata - 3 ′
histological analysis and tunel assay .
dissect testis be fix in bouin 's fixative or phosphate - buffer formalin overnight at 4 °c , progressively dehydrate in a grade ethanol series , and embed in paraffin wax .
section ( 6 μm ) be deparaffinized , rehydrated , and stain with hematoxylin and eosin .
for tunel analysis , deparaffinized section be treat with proteinase k for 15 min and quench in 3.0 % hydrogen peroxide in pb for 5 min at room temperature .
subsequently , nuclear staining in apoptotic cell be detect use apoptag kit ( chemicon , http://www.chemicon.com ) accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
tissue immunofluorescent staining .
slide with paraffin section be wash in pbt ( 0.1 % tween 20 in pb ) and autoclave in 10 mm citric acid ( ph 6.0 ) to retrieve antigenicity .
slide be block in 5 % serum ( match to the specie of the secondary antibody ) in pb for 1 h at room temperature and incubate with primary antibody overnight at 4 °c prior to detection with secondary antibody .
antibody .
rabbit polyclonal antibody to dmrt7 be raise against a purify fusion protein contain glutathione - s - transferase ( gst ) fuse to the c - terminal 279 amino acid of dmrt7 .
antibody to gst be remove by gst - affigel 10 chromatography and the antiserum be then purify by gst - dmrt7 - affigel 15 chromatography .
dmrt7 antibody be use at 1 : 200 dilution with a goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody ( molecular probe , http://www.invitrogen.com ) at 1 : 200 dilution .
other primary antibody use for immunofluorescence be rat anti-gata1 ( 1 : 200 , santa cruz biotechnology , http://www.scbt.com , sc - 265 ) , goat anti-gata4 ( 1 : 200 , santa cruz biotechnology , sc - 1237 ) , rat anti-tra98 ( 1 : 200 , gift of h. tanaka and y. nishimune ) , rat anti-bc7 ( 1 : 50 , gift of h. tanaka and y. nishimune ) , rat anti-tra369 ( 1 : 200 , gift of h. tanaka and y. nishimune ) , rabbit anti-rad51 ( 1 : 600 calbiochem , http://www.calbiochem.com , pc130 ) , mouse anti-gmp - 1 / sumo - 1 ( 1 : 200 , zymed , http://invitrogen.com , 33 – 2400 ) , rabbit anti-phospho - h2ax ( ser139 ) ( 1 : 200 , upstate , http://www.millipore.com , 01 – 164 ) , mouse anti-phospho - h2ax ( 1 : 200 , upstate , 05 – 636 ) , mouse anti-sycp3 ( 1 : 200 , abcam , http://www.abcam.com , ab12452 ) , rabbit anti-hp1β ( 1 : 100 , abcam , ab10478 ) , rabbit anti-h3 - 2mek9 ( 1 : 100 , upstate , 07 – 441 ) , rabbit anti-h3 - 3mek9 ( 1 : 200 , upstate , 07 – 442 ) , rabbit anti-ar ( n - 20 ) ( 1 : 200 , santa cruz biotechnology , sc - 816 ) , and mouse anti-αsma clone 1a4 ( 1 : 800 , sigma , http://www.sigmaaldrich.com , a2547 ) .
secondary antibody use be goat anti-rabbit alexa 488 , goat anti-rabbit alexa 594 , goat anti-rat alexa 594 , and goat anti-mouse alexa 488 ( molecular probe ) use at 1 : 250 .
donkey anti-goat fitc ( jackson immunoresearch laboratory , http://www.jacksonimmuno.com ) and donkey anti-rabbit texas red ( jackson ) be use at 1 : 50 accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
meiotic chromosome spread preparation and fish .
meiotic chromosome spread preparation be make from 3 - wk - old mouse , prepare a describe by reinholdt et al. [ 63 ] .
for analysis of pmsc and cot - 1 rna fish , meiotic slide be prepare a previously describe [ 16 ] .
slide contain chromosome spread or meiotic spermatocyte be subject to immunofluorescent staining or rna fish , a previously describe [ 16 , 63 ] .
for combine rna fish / immunostaining , we carry out rna fish first , follow by immunofluorescence .
dna fish be perform use chromosome painting ( cambio , http://www.cambio.co.uk ) .
z - section be capture by zeiss axioplan microscope ( zeiss , http://www.zeiss.com ) and process by openlab ( improvision , http://www.improvision.com ) .
supporting information
figure s1
wild - type and dmrt7 mutant meiotic spread
arrow indicate the location of xy body .
sycp3 antibody staining ( green ) show normal synapsis of homologous chromosome synapse in dmrt7 mutant cell .
dmrt7 protein ( red ) be localize to the xy body in wild - type ( top row ) and be not detect in dmrt7 mutant ( bottom row ) .
( 726 kb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
target disruption of dmrt7
( a ) diagram of target strategy .
homologous recombination of the targeting vector with the wild - type dmrt7 allele ( dmrt7 + ) result in the target allele dmrtneo .
this allele contain loxp site flank the translational start and the second and third exon ( contain the dm domain , gray ) , as well a a neomycine - resistance cassette flank by flp recombinase recognition site ( frt site ) .
mouse heterozygous for the dmrt1neo allele be mat with transgenic mouse express cre recombinase , result in deletion of the sequence between the two loxp site , include the neo cassette .
the result deletion allele be call dmrt7 − .
mating of dmrt7neo mouse with transgenic mouse express the flpe recombinase excise the neo cassette , generate the dmrt7flox allele .
( b ) southern blot of target and wild - type e cell clone .
genomic dna from e cell clone be digest with nsii / noti and ecori .
the 5 ′ external probe hybridize to 14.2 - kb ( wild - type ) and 6 - kb ( target ) nsii / noti fragment .
the 3 ′ probe hybridize to 14.6 - kb ( wild - type ) and 4.7 - kb ( target ) ecori fragment .
( c ) testis section from adult mouse .
sumo - 1 ( green ) on xy body be detect in both wild - type ( top ) and dmrt7 mutant ( bottom ) section .
dmrt7 be detect in wild - type but not detect in dmrt7 mutant in sumo - 1 - positive cell .
( wild - type image be the same a in figure 1d . )
( 3.4 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
normal androgen receptor expression in dmrt7 mutant sertoli cell
testis section from adult mouse stain with antibody to androgen receptor ( red ) and counterstained with dapi ( blue ) .
in both wild - type ( top ) and mutant ( bottom ) testis section , androgen receptor protein be express in sertoli cell and peritubular myoid cell .
mutant testis section show abnormal localization of sertoli cell nucleus , which be displace from basement membrane .
ar , androgen receptor .
( 2.3 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
ub - h2a localization to xy body in dmrt7 mutant spermatocyte
spread pachytene spermatocyte from wild - type ( top ) and dmrt7 mutant ( bottom ) mouse , stain with antibody to ub - h2a ( green ) and dapi ( blue ) .
arrow indicate xy body .
both wild - type and mutant pachytene cell have ub - h2a properly localize to xy body .
( 722 kb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s5
rbmy silencing in dmrt7 mutant spermatocyte
( a ) sycp3 ( green ) and rbmy ( red ) immunostaining of spread wild - type and dmrt7 mutant testicular cell .
in wild - type and mutant cell , rbmy be express at low level in leptotene stage .
in pachytene spermatocyte , rbmy have fall to background level in both wild - type and mutant .
( b ) sumo - 1 ( green ) and rbmy ( red ) immunostaining of adult testis section from wild - type and dmrt7 mutant .
pre-meiotic cell near the basal membrane express high level of rbmy whereas sumo - 1 - positive pachytene cell do not express rbmy , in both wild - type and mutant , indicate proper silencing .
( 5.4 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we thank member of the zarkower and bardwell lab for many helpful discussion ; dan camerini - otero , john logsdon , and scott hawley for insight into evolution of meiotic regulator ; hiromitsu tanaka , yoshitake nishimune , and david elliot for generously share antibody ; and dy meijer for share dhh - cre mouse .
we thank the university of minnesota mouse genetics laboratory for e cell injection .
some image be obtain use the middlebury biology imaging facility , equip in part through the national science foundation ( course , curriculum , and laboratory improvement , 0088412 ) .
shn be a research fellow of the japan society for promotion of science .
abbreviation
dm - doublesex / mab - 3 domain
e - embryonic stem
fish - fluorescence in situ hybridization
gst - glutathione - s - transferase
hp1β - heterochromatin protein 1 beta
γh2ax - phosphorylated h2ax
msci - meiotic sex chromosome inactivation
p14 - postnatal day 14
pmsc - postmeiotic sex chromatin
rt - pcr - reverse transcriptase - pcr
sumo - 1 - small ubiquitin - relate modifier 1
ub - h2a - ubiquitinated h2a
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on march 7 , 2007 ( doi:10.1371/journal.pgen.0030062.eor ) .
author contribution .
all author conceive and design the experiment and analyze the data .
sk , shn , lmn , and jow perform the experiment .
jow contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
sk , shn , jow , jtl , vjb , and dz write the paper .
funding .
this work be support by the u national institute of health ( gm059152 ) and the minnesota medical foundation .
lmn be support by the bicentennial fund of middlebury college .
genetic background determine response to hemostasis and thrombosis
abstract
background
thrombosis be the fatal and disable consequence of cardiovascular disease , the lead cause of mortality and morbidity in western country .
two inbred mouse strain , c57bl / 6j and a / j , have marked difference in susceptibility to obesity , atherosclerosis , and vessel remodeling .
however , it be unclear how these diverse genetic background influence pathway know to regulate thrombosis and hemostasis .
the objective of this study be to evaluate thrombosis and hemostasis in these two inbred strain and determine the phenotypic response of a / j chromosome in the c57bl / 6j background .
method
a / j and c57bl / 6j mouse be evaluate for difference in thrombosis and hemostasis .
a thrombus be induce in the carotid artery by application of the expose carotid to ferric chloride and blood flow measure until the vessel occlude .
bleeding and rebleeding time , a surrogate marker for thrombosis and hemostasis , be determine after clip the tail and place in warm saline .
twenty - one chromosome substitution strain , a / j chromosome in a c57bl / 6j background , be screen for response to the tail bleeding assay .
result
thrombus occlusion time be markedly decrease in the a / j mouse compare to c57bl / 6j mouse .
tail bleeding time be similar in the two strain , but rebleeding time be markedly increase in the a / j mouse compare to c57bl / 6j mouse .
coagulation time and tail morphology be similar , but tail collagen content be high in a / j than c57bl / 6j mouse .
three chromosome substitution strain , b6 - chr5a / j , b6 - chr11a / j , and b6 - chr17a / j , be identify with increase rebleeding time , a phenotype similar to a / j mouse .
mouse heterosomic for chromosome 5 or 17 have rebleeding time similar to c57bl / 6j mouse , but when these two chromosome substitution strain , b6 - chr5a / j and b6 - chr17a / j , be cross , the a / j phenotype be restore in these doubly heterosomic progeny .
conclusion
these result indicate that susceptibility to arterial thrombosis and haemostasis be remarkably different in c57bl / and a / j mouse .
three a / j chromosome substitution strain be identify that express a phenotype similar to a / j for rebleeding , the c57bl / 6j background could modify the a / j phenotype , and the combination of two a / j qtl could restore the phenotype .
the diverse genetic background and difference in response to vascular injury induce thrombosis and the tail bleeding assay , suggest the potential for identify novel genetic determinant of thrombotic risk .
background
family history [ 1 ] be the strong risk factor for cardiovascular disease ( cvd ) .
while a number of genetic mutation have be identify , these account for only a small percentage of the cvd in human population .
thrombus formation on fissure atherosclerotic plaque be the precipitate event in the transition from a stable or subclinical atherosclerotic disease and lead to acute myocardial infarction , ischemic stroke or peripheral arterial occlusion .
arterial and venous thrombosis be complex response and be influence by multiple genetic and environmental factor [ 2 - 5 ] .
polymorphism and mutation in coagulation factor , fibrinolytic factor , platelet surface receptor , methylenetetrahydrofalate reductase , endothelial nitric oxide synthase , and antioxidant enzyme have be implicate a genetic determinant of susceptibility to thrombosis [ 6 , 7 ] .
great stride have be make in the diagnosis and treatment of thrombosis in the last decade .
however , strategy to prevent thrombosis have lag far behind due , in part , to the contribution of multiple , and as yet undefined , genetic factor that lead to thrombotic risk .
moreover , it remain unclear how genetic background influence the function of molecule and pathway know to regulate thrombus formation and lysis and , thereby , contribute to the risk of thrombotic disease .
many of the available inbred mouse strain , such a c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) and a / j , have be classify a resistant or susceptible to particular complex disease ( table 1 ) .
these two strain have diverse response to diet - induce obesity [ 8 ] ( b6 susceptible ; a / j resistant ) , diet - induce atherosclerosis ( b6 susceptible ; a / j resistant ) [ 9 ] , arterial ligation - induce neointimal hyperplasia ( b6 resistant ; a / j resistant ) , and ligation induce vessel remodeling ( b6 resistant ; a / j susceptible ) [ 10 ] .
these condition be predispose to thrombosis per se , but these mouse have not be systematically evaluate for thrombosis .
clot formation and lysis , which ultimately determine thrombosis , require platelet aggregation , coagulation , and fibrinolytic function .
interaction among these pathway may occur and additional factor may modulate these process .
identification of novel modulators and factor of these pathway can be identify by associate the phenotype with a location ( s ) on a specific chromosome , a quantitative trait locus ( qtl ) .
table 1
identification of mouse susceptible or resistant to obesity , atherosclerosis , and vascular injury
r : resistant ; s : susceptible .
reference provide by number in parenthesis .
lepob , plg - / - , and pai - f1 - / - mouse be in a b6 background .
a panel of chromosome substitution strain ( cs ) be generate [ 11 ] by a " marker - assist " breeding program where the progeny of a b6 × a / j cross be successively backcross to the b6 mouse .
genetic marker be use to identify homozygosity in the background ( b6 ) and the individual a / j chromosome .
these strain have one chromosome from a / j mouse in a b6 background .
this allow the identification of a trait in one or more cs and imply that at least one qtl reside on this chromosome .
use of this panel require few mouse to determine the qtl than do a genome - wide scan .
another advantage be the ability for detection of qtl in the presence of other qtl .
in addition , initial screen with the cs simplify the fine - map of qtl .
several study of this cs panel , b6 chr1 - 19 , x , ya / j , have be report for behavior [ 12 ] , weight gain [ 13 ] , sterol [ 13 ] , and plasma amino acid level [ 13 , 14 ] , and have identify many more qtl than study of the same trait use a genome - wide scan .
the purpose of this study be to evaluate the two inbred strain of mouse for prothrombotic risk , utilize a ferric chloride vascular injury model , tail bleeding assay , and measure of coagulation and fibrinolysis .
the result of this study indicate that the two inbred strain , b6 and a / j mouse , have diverse prothrombotic phenotype , unrelated to coagulation or platelet aggregation .
in addition , in the cs , expression of the a / j phenotype , rebleeding time and arterial occlusion , be modify in the b6 background , and suggest that interaction occur among the a / j qtl .
thus , it should be possible to identify independent genetic determinant of susceptibility to pathological haemostasis and thrombosis .
method
mouse
the inbred strain , b6 ( # 000664 ) , lepob ( # 000632 ) , a / j ( # 000646 ) and gene - target plasminogen ( plg ) activator inhibitor deficient mouse ( pai - 1 - / - ) ( # 002507 ) [ 15 ] mouse in a b6 background be obtain from jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , maine ) at 6 wks - of - age .
the plg - / - mouse be generate a previously describe [ 16 ] and maintain in the b6 background , generate by cross mouse from the original mixed ( b6 : 129 ) background for eight generation with b6 mouse .
the plg - / - mouse do not reproduce well and plg heterozygous pair be use for breeding .
genotype ( plg + / + , plg + / - , plg - / - ) of the offspring be determine by a pcr assay at 3 – 4 week - of - age from an ear punch [ 17 ] .
breeding pair of the cs mouse be transfer from dr. nadeau 's laboratory .
all mouse be house and breed in the biological resource unit at the cleveland clinic foundation ( ccf ) .
mouse be house in sterilize isolator cage , maintain on a 14 hr light / 10 hr dark cycle , and be provide sterilize food and water ad libitum .
mouse be feed a standard autoclavable laboratory diet consist of : 23 % protein , 4.5 % fat , 6 % fiber , ( purina , st. louis , mo ) , and test between 7 and 9 wks - of - age .
all animal experiment be perform in accordance with a protocol approve by the institutional animal care and research advisory committee at ccf .
vascular injury
to induce thrombosis formation in the carotid artery , a ferric chloride ( fecl3 ) model of vessel injury [ 18 , 19 ] be employ .
mouse be anesthetize with ketamine / xylazine ( 80 mg / kg , 5 mg / kg ) , a midline cervical incision be make and the left common carotid artery isolate by blunt dissection .
the flow probe ( transonic system , model 0.5psb ) be place under the artery and when a stable baseline be reach , a 0.5 × 2 mm strip of filter paper saturate with 10 % fecl3 solution be apply to the surface of the carotid artery for 3 min .
occlusion time be determine from the addition of the fecl3 solution to the occlusion of the artery ( minimum blood flow ) .
the flow probe be in place from the establishment of the baseline until several min after the stable occlusion have be reach or stop at 30 min if it have not occlude .
blood flow be record every 10 sec ( transonic system , model ts420 ) .
there be no difference in body weight among the mouse that be test in the vascular injury model .
bleeding and rebleeding assay
for the tail bleeding assay , mouse be anesthetize with ketamine / xylazine ( 80 mg / kg , 5 mg / kg ) , the tail prewarmed for 5 min in 10 ml of saline at 37 °c in a water bath .
the tail be lift from the saline and a 5 mm tail segment amputate and immediately return to the saline .
bleeding time be measure a the time between the start of bleed to cessation of bleeding .
with the tail remain in the same saline solution , the rebleeding time be measure from the time between bleeding cessation and the start of the second bleeding .
coagulation , plg , α2 - antiplasmin , fibrinogen , fibrinolytic and pai - 1 assay
mouse be anesthetize with isoflurane ( abbott ) , bleed from the orbital sinus into uncoated capillary tube , and a drop of blood immediately place on a reagent strip ( synbiotics ) for prothrombin time ( pt ) or activate partial thromboplastin time ( aptt ) determination and insert into the precalibrated coagulation analyzer ( sca2000 , synbiotics ) .
pai - 1 activity be determine accord to the method of chandler et al [ 20 ] .
pai - 1 antigen concentration be determine by elisa [ 21 ] use sheep - anti mouse pai - 1 ( american diagnostica ) a the capture antibody and mouse pai - 1 ( american diagnostica ) a the standard ( 0 – 3.5 ng / ml ) .
plg be determine with a chromogenic assay [ 22 ] and the fibrinolytic activity determine by fibrin degradation [ 23 ] .
for the negative control in these assay , plasma from pai - 1 or plg deficient mouse be use .
functionally active mouse α2 - antiplasmin be determine with a plasmin capture assay and detection with a mouse antibody ( molecular innovation , southfield , mi ) , and fibrinogen with an elisa assay with antibody that recognize mouse fibrinogen ( hyphen biomed , france ) .
histochemical and immunohistochemistry analysis
the freeze tail or injured carotids in oct be section at 5 μm thickness and stain with masson 's trichrome ( ht 15 , sigma diagnostics ) .
for quantitative analysis of collagen area in the tail section , four section from 2 – 3 site be measure use computer assist image analysis ( image - pro plus , cybernetics ) .
for the area determination of the injured carotid lumen , 3 – 4 section from different site approximately 100 μm apart be analyze and average for each mouse .
statistic
data be present a mean ± sem .
the statistical analysis for comparison between a / j and b6 mouse and between wild - type ( wt ) and plg - / - littermates be compare with a two - tail t - test .
difference among b6 , lepob , pai - 1 - / - mouse be determine by a one - way anova and a newman - keuls post-test .
a value of p < 0.05 be consider significant .
the statistical analysis for comparison between b6 mouse and cs be determine with two - tail t - test and the level of the significant p - value ( see figure legend ) determine with a bonferroni correction to account for multihypothesis testing [ 13 ] .
result
marked difference in arterial thrombus formation in b6 and a / j mouse
the fecl3 cartoid artery injury model [ 24 ] , a well - characterize arterial thrombosis model , be use to induce an occlusive thrombus in the b6 and a / j mouse strain under investigation .
a marked difference in arterial thrombus occlusion time be find between the b6 and the a / j mouse ( figure 1a ) .
the occlusion time in the a / j mouse be 2-fold less than for the b6 mouse .
a 5 % dose of fecl3 be test in the a / j and b6 mouse and the occlusion time be low in the a / j than the b6 mouse , the same result a with the 10 % dose .
the occlusion time ( min for both b6 ( 15 ± 3 , n = 3 ) and a / j ( 8 ± 1 , n = 3 ) at 5 % be long than at 10 % for b6 ( 10 ± 1 , n = 17 and a / j ( 5 ± 2 , n = 14 ) .
the curve of blood flow after fecl3 application indicate a pattern with a gradual decrease before occlusion for the b6 mouse ( figure 1b ) , but for the a / j mouse the blood flow decrease abruptly to zero ( figure 1c ) , demonstrate a marked difference from the b6 strain .
the mean occlusion time be significantly different between the two strain ( figure 1a ) .
the size of the carotids in the two strain be noticeably different .
the area ( mm2 ) of the lumen ( 0.066 ± 0.007 , n = 6 ) be significantly less in the a / j mouse than for b6 mouse ( 0.128 ± 0.007 , n = 6 ) .
however , the ratio of the thrombus to lumen be similar for a / j ( 0.63 ± 0.03 ) compare to b6 mouse ( 0.67 ± 0.09 ) .
calculate sheer stress rate [ 25 ] be 14 % less in the a / j mouse when compare to b6 mouse .
figure 1
arterial occlusion time in b6 and a / j mouse .
panel a and b be representative occlusion curve from each genotype .
red arrow indicate duration of ferric chloride application to the carotid .
panel a : b6 mouse , panel b : a / j mouse .
panel c : arterial occlusion time , mean ± sem of 14 – 17 mouse per genotype .
symbol indicate a significant difference ( ** p < 0.01 ) between b6 mouse determine with a t - test .
marked difference in rebleeding time in b6 and a / j mouse
the bleeding time , an indicator of hemostatic activity , be determine after prewarming the tail , clip a 5 mm segment , place the tail in warm saline and measure the time for the bleeding to stop .
we find this procedure be consistent and reproducible in different mouse strain and be not gender dependent .
bleeding time be not different in a / j mouse compare to b6 mouse ( figure 2a ) .
in order to determine if specific pathway be alter in the b6 and a / j strain , mouse with known alteration in hemostasis , lepob mouse , or thrombosis , plg - / - and pai - / - mouse , be also test .
the lepob mouse have impair platelet aggregation [ 26 ] and be evaluate a a reference for platelet function .
in the lepob mouse ( figure 2a ) there be nearly a 10-fold increase in bleeding time compare to b6 mouse .
bleeding time be also significantly ( p = 0.0001 ) increase by 66 % in the plg - / - mouse compare to wt mouse littermates .
bleeding time be not different in pai - 1 - / - mouse compare to b6 mouse .
in contrast to the lepob mouse with a platelet defect and 10-fold increase in bleeding time , there be no difference in the bleeding time between b6 and a / j mouse and suggest platelet aggregation be not alter in these two strain .
figure 2
bleeding and rebleeding time in b6 , a / j , lepob , plg - / - and pai - 1 - / - mouse .
panel a , b : bleeding time ( second ) and panel c , d : rebleeding time ( second ) .
to determine statistical difference , value from b6 and a / j and from wt and plg - / - littermates be compare with a t - test , and value from b6 , pai - 1 - / - and lepob be compare by a one - way anova and a newman - keuls post-test .
symbol indicate a significant difference ( * p < 0.05 , ** p < 0.01 , *** p < 0.001 ) between b6 or wt mouse .
value be the mean ± sem of 10 – 34 mouse per genotype .
rebleeding time , an indicator of thrombus stability , be measure a the time between the cessation of bleeding and the start of the second bleeding ( figure 2b ) .
rebleeding time be significantly high in a / j ( 2.6-fold , p < 0.001 ) mouse than the b6 mouse .
in contrast , the rebleeding time be nearly 8.5-fold less in the lepob mouse than the b6 mouse .
to determine how alteration in the fibrinolytic system may affect rebleeding time , plg - / - and pai - 1 - / - mouse be also test ( figure 2b ) .
rebleeding time be not different in plg - / - mouse compare to wt littermates , but pai - 1 - / - mouse have a significantly ( p < 0.05 ) reduce rebleeding time , which be 1.8-fold low than for the b6 mouse .
although a plg deficiency do not result in a prolonged rebleeding time a anticipate , a pai - 1 deficiency result in a shorten time .
the markedly increase rebleeding time in the a / j may suggest difference in the regulation of the plg network .
no difference in blood coagulation between b6 and a / j mouse
to determine if difference in coagulation be contribute factor to the bleeding and rebleeding result , prothrombin time ( pt ) and activate partial thromboplastin time ( aptt ) be measure .
pt be a measurement of the extrinsic coagulation pathway ( activation of factor vii by tissue factor ) while aptt be a measurement of the intrinsic pathway ( activation of factor xii , xi , ix and viii ) .
the product of both pathway activate factor x , which initiate the common pathway lead to thrombin generation and fibrin clot formation .
pt and aptt be measure in the b6 and a / j mouse and value be not different between the two mouse strain ( table 2 ) .
these result suggest that the coagulation pathway be not different in the two inbred strain .
table 2
coagulation and plasminogen system parameter in b6 and a / j inbred mouse strain
value be the mean ± sem .
* p < 0.05 , ** p < 0.01 .
n = 5 – 8 .
plg and pai - 1 high in a / j than b6 mouse
plg concentration be 34 % high in the a / j mouse than in b6 mouse .
in addition , fibrinolytic activity , pai - 1 activity , and α2 - anitplasmin be also increase in the a / j mouse when compare to the b6 mouse ( table 2 ) .
the functional consequence of these difference be not clear , since fibrinogen be also high in the a / j mouse .
to determine whether there be protein structure change of plg from the a / j mouse , plasma from the b6 and the a / j mouse be subject to electrophoresis under reduce , non-reduced , and non-denaturing condition .
no difference in migration for immunostained plg under these condition be observe ( data not show ) .
the density of the western blot from sd - page under reducing condition of plasma of vary volume from b6 and a / j mouse be compare and the density of the band be 56 % high in the a / j than the b6 mouse ( six individual mouse be test on at least two occasion ) from the same amount of plasma ( fig. 1b ) .
thus , the concentration of plg in plasma from the a / j mouse be high than plasma from the b6 mouse a determine by two method and no difference in migration after electrophoresis be observe , suggest no marked change in the structure of plg in the two mouse strain .
tail morphology in b6 and a / j
the tail of the mouse be examine for difference that might account for the variation in the bleeding and rebleeding value .
section of the tail from the b6 and a / j mouse be stain with hematoxylin / eosin or masson 's trichrome and representative section be show in figure 3 .
no obvious qualitative difference be observe in hair follicle , sebaceous gland , or center bone / cartilage in hematoxylin / eosin ( figure 3a ) stain section .
section of the tail be stain with masson 's trichrome ( figure 3b ) that detect collagen , the major platelet adhesive substratum for initiation of thrombus formation .
collagen content ( % tail area ) be quantify ( figure 3c ) from 3 – 4 section from 2 – 3 area / mouse .
the amount of collagen be great in the a / j than the b6 mouse ( p < 0.05 ) .
collagen in vessel in adipose tissue in the a / j mouse be also increase compare to the b6 mouse ( data not show ) .
figure 3
tail morphology and collagen .
tail be excise , embed in oct , section , and stain with hematoxylin / eosin or masson 's trichrome .
panel a : representative section stain with hematoxylin and eosin from b6 and a / j mouse .
panel b : representative section stain with masson 's trichrome from b6 and a / j mouse .
the blue color identify the collagen .
panel c : the percentage of the collagen area ( exclude center bone / cartilage ) of the total tail area of each section be determine in 3 – 4 section at 2 – 3 site for each tail and average for each mouse .
value be the mean ± sem of 4 – 8 mouse per genotype .
symbol indicate a significant difference ( * p < 0.05 ) between b6 mouse determine by t - test .
tail bleeding assay identify three chromosome with qtl for rebleeding in cs
use the tail bleeding / rebleeding assay a a surrogate marker for hemostasis and thrombosis , the cs be screen .
the bleeding time ( figure 4a ) for the b6 and the a / j mouse be not different , but 6six of the strain , b6 - chr5 , 6 , 8 , 14 , 15 , and ya / j , have low ( p < 0.002 ) bleeding time ( 49 – 79 second ) compare to the value for the b6 mouse ( 121 sec ) .
the rebleeding time ( figure 4b ) , determine a the time between bleeding cessation and initiation of the second bleeding , be markedly increase in the a / j mouse compare to the b6 mouse and two strain , b6 - chr11a / j ( cs - 11 ) and b6 - chr17a / j ( cs - 17 ) , have significantly ( p < 0.002 ) long rebleeding time compare to the b6 mouse that be similar to value from the a / j mouse .
another strain , b6 - chr5a / j ( cs - 5 ) , approach significance at p < 0.008 .
the rebleeding time be stop at 600 sec , and the percentage of mouse with this value determine for the three strain : cs - 5 – 60 % , cs - 11 – 60 % and cs - a17 – 46 % .
the percentage of b6 mouse with a rebleeding time of 600 sec be 7 % and for the a / j mouse the percentage be 85 % .
figure 4
bleeding and rebleeding time in the cs .
panel a : bleeding time ( second ) .
panel b : rebleeding time ( second ) .
bar be the mean ± sem of 7 – 28 mouse .
statistical difference between b6 mouse and cs be determine with a t - test , and a bonferroni correction be make to determine significance value ( p < 0.002 ) .
symbol indicate a significant difference between b6 value .
* p < 0.002 .
rebleeding time in the parent strain and cs be compare to value from the progeny of mouse that be cross with b6 mouse to produce heterosomic mouse for the cs - 5 , ( b6xcss - 5 ) f1 and cs - 17 ( b6xcss - 17 ) f1 strain ( figure 5 ) .
the rebleeding value for cs - 5f1 and cs - 17f1 mouse be similar to the b6 rather than the a / j mouse , suggest the a / j trait be recessive .
bleeding and rebleeding in the progeny of the cross , b6 - chr5a / j × b6 - chr17a / j ( cs - 5 × cs - 17 ) result in the recovery of the a / j phenotype in the progeny of these double heterosomic strain .
thus , despite the heterosomic chromosome of 5 and 17 in the progeny of the cs - 5 × cs - 17 , the phenotype be now similar to a / j .
this suggest that trait on the a / j chromosome be interact to produce the phenotype .
figure 5
bleeding and rebleeding time in the cs backcrosses .
panel a : bleeding time ( second ) and panel b : rebleeding time ( second ) be test in heterosomic mouse , ( b6xcss - 5 ) f1 ( 5f1 ) and ( b6xcss - 17 ) f1 ( 17f1 ) and doubly heterosomic mouse for chromosome 5 and 17 ( 5 × 17 ) .
bar be the mean ± sem of 5 – 2 8 mouse .
statistical difference between b6 mouse and the cs be determine with a t - test , and a bonferroni correction be make to determine significance value ( p < 0.01 ) .
symbol indicate a significant difference between b6 value .
* p < 0.01 .
interaction of cs for pai - 1 antigen and activity
component of the plg system reside on chromosome cs - 5 ( pai - 1 ) , cs - 11 ( α2 - antiplasmin ) , and cs - 17 ( plg ) .
a report in table 2 , the a / j mouse have increase plg antigen , fibrinolytic activity , α2 - antiplasmin , pai - 1 activity and fibrinogen when compare to b6 mouse .
in cs - 17 mouse , the plg antigen be also significantly ( p = 0.015 ) increased ( 152 ± 6 , n = 12 ) when compare to the b6 mouse , but for cs - 5 and cs - 5 × 17 , the plg antigen be similar to value for the b6 mouse .
fibrinolytic activity be not different in the cs - 5 or cs - 17 strain compare to the b6 mouse .
α2 - antiplasmin be significantly ( p = < 0.01 ) reduced in cs - 5 mouse ( 142 ± 4 μg / ml , n = 5 ) , significantly ( p < 0.05 ) high in the cs - 11 ( 201 ± 6 , n = 8 ) , but not different in cs - 17 or cs - 5 × 17 mouse compare to the b6 mouse .
pai - 1 antigen and activity be determine in the cs with increase rebleeding time , cs - 5 , cs - 11 , and cs - 17 ( figure 6 ) , the heterosomic , cs - 5f1 , cs - 17f1 , and double hetersomic , cs - 5 × 17 .
cs - 5 , cs - 17 , cs - 5f1 , and cs - 17f1 generally have reduce pai - 1 antigen when compare to b6 mouse .
the reduce pai - 1 antigen be a dominant trait due to the fact that the value be similar in the homosomic and heterosomic cs - 5 and cs - 17 .
the cs - 5 × cs - 17 double heterosomic strain have value similar to the b6 and a / j parent strain .
pai - 1 activity be significantly reduce in the cs - 5 and cs - 17f1 mouse , but again in the cs - 5 × cs - 17 strain the value for pai - 1 activity be restore to the value of the b6 and a / j parent strain .
the pai - 1 antigen ( 5.4 ng / ml ± 0.5 , n = 7 ) and activity ( 170 u / ml ± 20 , n = 6 ) in the cs - 11 mouse be not different than for b6 mouse .
figure 6
pai - 1 in the cs backcrosses .
panel a : plasma pai - 1 antigen ( ng / ml ) and panel b : plasma pai - 1 activity ( u / ml ) be test in heterosomic mouse , ( b6xcss - 5 ) f1 ( 5f1 ) and ( b6xcss - 17 ) f1 ( 17f1 ) and doubly heterosomic mouse for chromosome 5 and 17 ( 5 × 17 ) .
bar be the mean ± sem of 5 – 18 mouse .
statistical difference between b6 mouse and cs be determine with a t - test , and a bonferroni correction be make to determine significance value ( p < 0.01 ) .
symbol indicate a significant difference between b6 value .
* p < 0.01 .
interaction of cs for arterial thrombus formation
the tail bleeding assay be rapid and facilitate the screening of the 21 cs strain , and subsequently the identify strain be test for arterial occlusion after the fecl3 injury ( figure 7 ) .
the cs - 5 and cs - 17 have occlusion time similar to the b6 mouse , but the doubly heterosomic cs - 5 × cs - 17 progeny have occlusion time high than either the b6 mouse or the heterosomic cs - 5f1 and cs - 17f1 or the a / j strain .
in double heterosomic cs - 5 × cs - 17 mouse , only one or three mouse test have occlude by 30 min ; the other two mouse do not occlude by 30 min .
while only a small number of cs mouse have be test for the arterial occlusion , the result suggest that interaction of the gene on chromosome 5 and 17 also determine arterial occlusion time .
figure 7
arterial occlusion time in the cs backcrosses .
occlusion time be determine in heterosomic mouse , ( b6xcss - 5 ) f1 ( 5f1 ) and ( b6xcss - 17 ) f1 ( 17f1 ) , and doubly heterosomic mouse for chromosome 5 and 17 ( 5 × 17 ) .
bar be the mean ± sem of 5 – 18 mouse .
statistical difference between b6 mouse and cs be determine with a t - test , and a bonferroni correction be make to determine significance value ( p < 0.02 ) .
symbol indicate a significant difference between b6 value .
* p < 0.0001 .
discussion
in this study , thrombotic risk be systematically assess in two inbred strain of mouse that have mark difference in susceptibility to diet - induce obesity , diet - induce atherosclerosis , and ligation - induce neointimal hyperplasia and vessel remodeling .
arterial occlusion time , tail bleeding and rebleeding time be evaluate a potential predictor of thrombotic response .
assessment of the two inbred strain be compare to value from gene target mouse of the plg network with alter fibrinolytic response , as well a in leptin deficient mouse with a reduce platelet function .
marked difference be find in the thrombotic response among the two inbred strain , b6 and a / j , and the observe difference be not correlate with change in coagulation or platelet function .
screen the cs identify three chromosome that harbor gene which contribute to the a / j phenotype of increase rebleeding time .
mouse homosomic for these chromosome or doubly heterosomic for two of the chromosome , 5 and 17 , be require to express the a / j phenotype , elevate rebleeding time .
pai - 1 antigen and activity be decrease in both cs - 5 and cs - 17 and the heterosomic mouse , cs - 5f1 and cs - 17f1 , but not in the cs - 11 strain .
value be restore in the doubly heterosomic for two of chromosome , 5 and 17 .
arterial occlusion time be similar to b6 in the cs - 5 and cs - 17 homozygous strain , but increase in doubly heterosomic for two of chromosome , 5 and 17 .
the fecl3 - induce model of vascular injury and thrombosis in mouse be now widely use to evaluate genetic and pharmacological intervention [ 24 ] .
the two inbred strain have marked difference in the time for occlusion of the carotid artery after fecl3 injury .
after fecl3 treatment , thrombus formation and occlusion be remarkably shorten in the a / j mouse compare to the b6 mouse .
these result have not previously be report .
a recent study [ 25 ] of sheer stress in rat , find that the magnitude of change in sheer stress with increase blood flow vary with the different strain .
further investigation , beyond the scope of this study would be necessary to determine the contribution in the difference in size and sheer stress of the carotids to arterial occlusion rate in the b6 and a / j mouse .
in preliminary study , we have note difference in the composition of the thrombus in b6 and a / j mouse .
the pattern of blood flow cessation for the two inbred strain be different than for the lepob mouse [ 26 ] with impaired platelet function , and coagulation time be similar in the two strain .
in the mouse with deficiency of the plg network [ 27 ] , thrombus formation time be reduce in the plg - / - mouse , but increase in the pai - / - mouse , suggest that alteration in plasmin activity that affect the rate of clot lysis , can modulate the event lead to occlusive thrombus formation .
the tail - bleeding assay have be use extensively in mouse to assess the impact of deficiency and over expression of platelet and coagulation protein in mouse .
sweeny et al [ 28 ] screen 25 strain of mouse and find only the riis / j mouse to have increase bleeding time due to reduce von willebrand antigen .
broze et al [ 29 ] evaluate mouse with gene deletion of the coagulation pathway and find that while bleeding time be not increase , rebleeding persist despite electrocautery of the tail in fviii and fix deficient mouse .
this observation raise the possibility that rebleeding time may be a sensitive reporter of genetic influence on thrombus formation and stability .
mouse that be deficient in factor require for normal platelet function , platelet glycoprotein ib [ 30 ] , and protease - activate receptor - 4 , [ 31 ] have increase tail bleeding time .
the leptin deficiency with reduce platelet aggregation clearly show a marked increase in bleeding time and the increase bleeding time in plg - / - and upa - / - mouse suggest that plg and upa may exert an influence on platelet response to promote normal thrombus formation .
overall , the marked increase in rebleeding time observe in certain mouse strain suggest genetic factor other than coagulation may play a role in the stability of a thrombus .
in the tail bleeding assay , a / j mouse do not have change in bleeding time , but rebleeding time be high compare to b6 mouse .
in our study , plg - / - mouse have increase bleeding time , pai - 1 - / - have decrease rebleeding time , and upa - / - mouse have an increase bleeding time similar to the plg - / - mouse ( j. hoover - plow , a. shchurin , and e. hart , unpublished result ) .
increase bleeding or rebleeding time have not be report in any of the plg network target mouse .
matsuno et al [ 32 ] report no difference in bleeding time for tpa - / - , upa - / - , pai - 1 - / - mouse compare to wt mouse , and the assay be similar , but the tail clip segment be considerably short and bleeding time reduced compare to the time report in our study .
bleeding time have not be previously report for plg - / - mouse .
we have find similar value for plg - / - mouse in a 50 % b6 : 50 % 129 background ( j. hoover - plow , a. shchurin , and e. hart , unpublished result ) .
the result of this study suggest that not only be bleeding time genetically determine by background , but also that tail rebleeding time be genetically determine .
while blood pressure could conceivably be high in mouse with elevate tail bleeding time , several study suggest that this be not the case .
study of a / j [ 33 - 36 ] mouse have report either decrease blood pressure or no difference compare to the b6 mouse .
blood pressure be measure in the plg - / - mouse ( d. hellard , j. hoover - plow , and e. plow , unpublished result ) , and these mouse have reduce blood pressure when compare to wt littermates , and upa - / - [ 37 ] and lepob [ 38 , 39 ] mouse also have reduce blood pressure , but there be no correspondence between blood pressure and tail bleeding or rebleeding time .
morphometric analysis of the tail indicate a difference in the collagen content of the tail in the a / j mouse .
difference in the structure and / or metabolism of collagen or extracellular matrix protein may contribute to the increase rebleeding and reduce occlusion time in the a / j mouse and warrant further investigation .
the gene for plg , pai - 1 , and α2 - antiplasmin reside on the three chromosome identify for qtl for rebleeding time and may or may not be coincidental to the observe phenotype find in the a / j mouse and cs .
it be not likely that merely the concentration of these component explain the increase rebleeding time and reduce arterial occlusion time in the a / j mouse .
when compare to the b6 mouse , the a / j mouse and the three strain with elevated rebleeding time have variable plg , pai - 1 , and α2 - antiplasmin .
two allelic form of the mouse plg gene have be report for b6 and a / j mouse [ 40 ] .
plg concentration be increase in a / j mouse compare to b6 mouse .
although we do not detect difference in plg structure , this would not exclude possible functional difference .
a congenic strain ( specific for a homosomic region from a / j and the remain chr and background be from b6 mouse ) of a / j chromosome 17 that include the plg gene be test in the bleeding assay .
value for bleeding and rebleeding in this congenic strain be similar to value from b6 mouse , indicate that the qtl be not plg .
there be gene for other protease and matrix protein that reside on chromosome 17 in addition to unknown gene .
dna base pair sequence data for the pai - 1 gene or the α2 - antiplasmin gene in b6 and a / j mouse have report no difference [ 51 ] , but regulatory gene upstream of the cod region may be important .
our result suggest that novel or unknown gene may interact with the plg system component to modify their function .
in summary , this study report marked difference in two inbred strain of mouse , b6 and a / j , in arterial thrombosis formation in a fecl3 vascular injury model , rebleeding time in a tail bleeding assay , plasminogen function , and tissue and vessel collagen deposition .
three chromosome from a / j mouse be identify that have qtl for rebleeding time .
the gene may interact with component in the plg network and modulate arterial occlusion time .
conclusion
the marked independent difference demonstrate in the b6 and a / j mouse can be exploit to identify genetic determinant of thrombosis and haemostasis .
our result of the cs screening suggest that novel or unknown gene can be use to identify the gene responsible for the trait relate to arterial thrombosis , tail bleeding / rebleeding and vessel extracellular matrix .
identification of difference in the parent strain , such a those describe in this study , and screening of the cs be a first - step in the discovery of new genetic determinant of thrombotic risk .
abbreviation
b6 = c57bl / 6j
cs = chromosome substitution strain
cs - # = b6 - chr # a / j
cs - # f1 = ( b6 × cs - # ) f1
wt = wild - type
- / - = deficient
plg = plasminogen
pai - 1 = plasminogen activator inhibitor - 1
tpa = tissue plasminogen activator
upa = urokinase plasminogen activator
sem = standard error of the mean
qtl = quantitative trait locus
compete interest
the author ( s ) declare that they have no compete interest .
author ' contribution
jhp conceive and design the study , coordinate the experiment and draft the manuscript .
a develop and perform the tail bleeding assay and participate in draft the manuscript .
eh carry out the vascular injury model and analysis and the tail bleeding assay , participate in the tail collagen analysis , and coordination of the mouse breeding .
j participate in the analysis of the vascular injury model result and collagen analysis .
jhn and ahe provide the cs breeding pair , jhn participate in discussion of the result , and jbs and jhn develop the cs .
all the author have read and approve the final manuscript .
pre-publication history
the pre-publication history for this paper can be access here :
acknowledgement
the author thank dr. a. vasanji , shiyang wang , and jenna saraniti for assistance with image analysis , david hellard for perform the blood pressure measurement , dr. y.shchurina for the plasminogen analysis , drs. lindsey burrage and jonathan smith for helpful discussion , and robin lewis for assistance with manuscript preparation .
this study be support by grant from nih , hl17964 , hl65204 , hl078701 ( jhp ) , t32 hl07914 ( a ) , and rr12305 ( jhn ) .
a hybrid photoreceptor express both rod and cone gene in a mouse model of enhance s - cone syndrome
abstract
rod and cone photoreceptors subserve vision under dim and bright light condition , respectively .
the difference in their function be think to stem from their different gene expression pattern , morphology , and synaptic connectivity .
in this study , we have examine the photoreceptor cell of the retinal degeneration 7 ( rd7 ) mutant mouse , a model for the human enhance s - cone syndrome ( escs ) .
this mutant carry a spontaneous deletion in the mouse ortholog of nr2e3 , an orphan nuclear receptor transcription factor mutate in escs .
employ microarray and in situ hybridization analysis we have find that the rd7 retina contain a modestly increase number of s - opsin – express cell that ultrastructurally appear to be normal cone .
strikingly , the majority of the photoreceptors in the rd7 retina represent a morphologically hybrid cell type that express both rod - and cone - specific gene .
in addition , in situ hybridization screening of gene show to be up - regulate in the rd7 mutant retina by microarray identify ten new cone - specific or cone - enrich gene with a wide range of biochemical function , include two gene specifically involve in glucose / glycogen metabolism .
we suggest that the abnormal electroretinogram , slow retinal degeneration , and retinal dysmorphology see in human with escs may , in part , be attributable to the aberrant function of a hybrid photoreceptor cell type similar to that identify in this study .
the functional diversity of the novel cone - specific gene identify here indicate molecular difference between rod and cone extend far beyond those previously discover .
synopsis
vision begin with light enter the eye .
this light be project onto the retina , a thin neural structure line the inside of the eye .
photoreceptors , among the most important cell type in the retina , be the first to receive the incoming ray of light .
in mammal , there be two type of photoreceptors : rod and cone .
rod be specialized for nighttime vision , and cone for daytime and color vision .
in this study , the author examine the photoreceptors of a mouse with a gene mutation that cause photoreceptors to develop abnormally .
human with a similar mutation have a form of blindness call enhance s - cone syndrome ( escs ) .
surprisingly , the majority of photoreceptors in this mutant mouse be find to have feature of both normal rod and cone .
it be possible that the abnormal feature of these photoreceptors predispose them to undergo premature death .
if this model accurately reflect the situation in human patient with escs , it may provide an explanation for the loss of vision see in this disease .
this study also elucidate previously unknown molecular difference between normal rod and cone .
this new knowledge may contribute to a good overall understanding of the mechanism underlie night , day , and color vision .
introduction
enhance s - cone syndrome ( escs ) be an unusual disease of photoreceptors that include night blindness ( suggestive of rod dysfunction ) , an abnormal electroretinogram ( erg ) with a waveform that be nearly identical under both light and dark adaptation , and an increase sensitivity of the erg to short - wavelength light [ 1 , 2 ] .
the disease be cause by mutation in the orphan nuclear receptor transcription factor nr2e3 ( also know a photoreceptor nuclear receptor ) , which be express exclusively in rod [ 3 , 4 ] .
recent human genetic study have also demonstrate mutation in this gene in goldmann - favre syndrome and many case of clump pigmentary retinal degeneration [ 5 ] .
the initial report of patient with escs attribute the unusual erg to an abnormally function rod photoreceptor system with persistent activity under light adaptation [ 6 – 8 ] .
subsequent study , however , conclude that the erg be due to supernumerary short - wavelength ( “ blue ” ) cone photoreceptors ( s - cone ) in these patient [ 1 , 2 , 9 – 11 ] .
histopathologic analysis of a retina from a human patient with escs and extensive retinal degeneration demonstrate an absence of rhodopsin - positive cell and an increase in the number of s - cone opsin - express cell .
nevertheless , the overall density of cone be only modestly increase in this patient ( approximately 2 - fold ) , suggest that there might be additional factor that contribute to the very large , light - adapt erg see in this disease .
in addition to the erg finding , patient with escs have dysmorphic retina with rosette formation in the out nuclear layer ( onl ) where photoreceptor cell body reside , and a slow retinal degeneration that can ultimately lead to complete blindness [ 12 – 14 ] .
mutation in the mouse ortholog of nr2e3 have be identify in the spontaneous mutant retinal degeneration 7 ( rd7 ) [ 15 ] .
this mutant demonstrate slow retinal degeneration and abnormal lamination of the onl with rosette formation [ 15 , 16 ] .
curiously , the erg of the mouse under both light and dark adaptation have be report to be normal , show progressive attenuation with time , presumably due to degenerative cell loss [ 15 ] .
a prior study show a 2 - to 3 - fold increase in the number s - opsin – positive cell in the rd7 retina compare to wild type [ 17 ] .
in addition , two group recently report derepression of additional cone gene in the rd7 mutant [ 18 , 19 ] .
in order to well understand the mechanistic basis of escs , we undertake a molecular and ultrastructural analysis of the photoreceptors of the rd7 mutant mouse .
microarray and in situ hybridization analysis reveal a modest increase in the number of s - opsin – positive cell and widespread derepression of many cone - specific gene within rod photoreceptor cell .
ultrastructural study demonstrate that the cell that coexpress rod and cone gene in the rd7 retina represent a morphologically hybrid cell type , intermediate between normal rod and cone .
result
widespread up - regulation of cone gene in the rd7 mutant retina
in an initial analysis of the rd7 mutant , homozygous mutant retina be compare with wild - type control at multiple postnatal time point use both cdna and affymetrix microarrays .
the cdna microarray use in this study contain approximately 12,000 different cdna largely derive from the retina and nervous system , and the affymetrix microarray contain over 34,000 gene .
experiment at all timepoints be carry out in triplicate , and stringent criterion be apply in decide whether a give gene be up - or down - regulate in the mutant ( see material and method for detail ) .
these experiment demonstrate widespread up - regulation of cone - specific and cone - enrich gene in the rd7 retina , especially by postnatal day 14 ( p14 ) and p21 ( figure 1 ) .
most known cone - specific or cone - enrich gene be find to be up - regulate in the mutant ( figure 1 , gene g1 – g15 ) .
the majority of these gene represent component of the phototransduction cascade ( e.g. , opsin , transducins , and phosphodiesterase subunit ) .
in addition to these gene , several novel cone - specific gene of unknown function recently identify in our lab be also up - regulate ( figure 1 , gene g16 , g17 , g21 , and g24 ; unpublished data ) .
finally , a wide range of other gene , most with no previously recognize role in the retina , be find to be up - regulate in the rd7 mutant ( figure 1 , g26 – g53 ; table s1 and s2 ; figure s1 – s7 ) .
nr2e3 expression be first detectable by in situ hybridization around embryonic day 18 ( e18 ) ; it then peak around p6 and subsequently decrease to adult level by p21 ( unpublished data ) .
in accordance with this time course of expression , almost no gene expression change be find at p0 , with progressively more change at late timepoints ( figure 1 ) .
one exception to this statement be the gene riken cdna 4933409k07 ( figure 1 , gene g47 ) , which be the only gene show to be up - regulate at all timepoints examine .
additional discussion of this gene and it unusual expression pattern will be present below .
two distinct pattern of cone gene derepression in rd7
in order to confirm these microarray result , an in situ hybridization analysis of the putative up - regulate cone gene be carry out in which the rd7 mutant retina be compare with age - match , wild - type control .
we find that the majority of the cone - specific gene that be up - regulate in microarray experiment be derepressed when assess by in situ hybridization ( figure 2 ) .
there be two major pattern of cone gene derepression .
the more common pattern ( type i ) manifest itself a ectopic gene expression throughout the onl , consistent with gene expression in all photoreceptors ( figure 2 ; upper left photomicrograph ) .
typical example of this pattern of derepression be show in figure 2 , and many more be available in table s1 .
this pattern of expression contrast sharply with the usual pattern of cone gene expression , which consist of scatter cell localize to the scleral edge of the onl ( figure 2 ) .
the second category of cone gene derepression ( type ii ) consist of a patchy , salt - and - pepper pattern of ectopic expression in which individual positive cell be scatter throughout the onl ( figure 2 , upper right photomicrograph ; table s1 ) .
although numerous positive cell be present in the rd7 retina ( particularly in the ventral portion ) , there be clearly many intersperse cell that show a complete absence of expression .
in order to rule out the possibility that these scatter positive cell be simply the normal complement of cone that have fail to localize their cell body to the scleral edge of the onl , the number of positive cell in the rd7 retina be quantitated by dissociate cell in situ hybridization .
dissociate cell in situ hybridization be perform use a probe for the s - cone opsin gene ( opn1sw ) , which show type ii derepression ( figure 2 and 3a – 3c ) .
s - opsin be express in 3.2 % of retinal cell in the rd7 mutant ( 66 s - opsin – positive cell out of 2,056 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole [ dapi ] - positive cell ) .
this value be approximately 2-fold great than the percentage of s - opsin – positive cell identify in wild - type control retina , 1.65 % ( 54 s - opsin - positive cell out of 3,271 dapi - positive cell ) , and accord well with the previously report value of 2 - to 3-fold more s - opsin – positive cell in rd7 compare to wild type arrive at by antibody staining of tissue section [ 17 ] .
previous study have estimate that the total number of cone in the mouse retina be 2 % of all retinal cell [ 20 ] , and that s - opsin be largely repress in cone in the dorsal third of the retina [ 21 ] .
the estimate of 1.65 % s - opsin – positive cell in the wild - type retina be in agreement with these data .
the fact that only 3.2 % of all retinal cell be s - opsin – positive in the rd7 mutant also confirm that the majority of the photoreceptors ( which make up just over 70 % of the cell in the adult mouse retina ) do not express this gene .
in order to assess whether these supernumerary s - opsin – express cell coexpressed rod - specific marker , a double antibody staining for s - opsin and rhodopsin be perform .
this study show mutually exclusive domain of expression of s - opsin and rhodopsin in the photoreceptor out segment ( figure 3d – 3f ) .
this finding suggest that the supernumerary s - opsin – express cell in the rd7 retina may represent normal “ blue ” cone .
novel cone - specific gene be derepressed in rd7
give that the majority of known cone - specific gene show marked derepression in the rd7 mutant , additional candidate gene up - regulate on microarray analysis be evaluate for cone - specific expression .
in situ hybridization be perform on an additional 45 up - regulate gene , confirm that 21 of them be derepressed .
of these , at least ten show a definite cone - specific or cone - enrich pattern of expression in the wild - type retina ( figure 1 , gene g26 – g35 ) .
several example be give in figure 4 .
note that in the wild - type retina , there be a relatively weak pattern of scatter positive cell at the scleral edge of the onl , consistent with a cone - specific pattern of expression .
all of these gene show marked derepression in the rd7 retina .
a number of these novel cone - specific gene show a striking localization of their transcript to the photoreceptor inner segment ( e.g. , bub1b and tcta ) .
this localization manifest in a section in situ hybridization a a dark band of staining just beyond the out edge of the onl immediately underlie the out segment layer .
although such a pattern of transcript localization be commonly see in many rod - specific gene ( e.g. , rho in figure 2 ; pcdh21 , rbp3 , and cnga1 in table s2 ) , it be not easily appreciate in cone - specific gene , possibly due to the relative scarcity of cone in the mouse .
in the rd7 mutant retina in which such gene be widely derepressed , such a pattern of transcript localization often become apparent .
in addition to the ten gene that show cone - specific expression in the wild - type retina , another 11 novel gene be derepressed in the rd7 retina by in situ hybridization ( figure 1 , gene g36 – g46 ) .
some of these gene show faint expression in a cone - like distribution ( see table s1 , gene g36 , g40 , and g44 ) , and one appear to be express throughout the onl but at great level in cone than in rod ( table s1 , gene g37 ) .
the remainder of the up - regulate gene do not have detectable cone staining in the wild - type retina .
despite this apparent absence of cone staining , the pattern of derepression in rd7 suggest that these gene may also be novel cone - specific gene , albeit express at level below the sensitivity threshold of our in situ hybridization assay .
in most case , the novel cone gene identify in this study appear to have a type i pattern of derepression .
however , due to the weakness of the signal in some case , or transcript localization to the inner segment in others , it be not always possible to determine with confidence which of the two pattern of derepression ( if either ) each of these gene display .
in term of functional categorization , the novel cone gene cover a broad range include glucose metabolism ( pygm and glo1 ) , fatty acid metabolism ( elovl2 ) , dna repair ( smug1 ) , cell cycle / chromosome segregation ( bub1b ) , carcinogenesis ( tcta ) , endothelial biology ( ece1 ) , cytoskeletal function ( ebp4.1l1 ) , and even otolith formation ( otop3 ) .
a relatively frequent finding among both previously identify cone - specific gene , as well a in some of those identify in the present study , be the occurrence of gene expression in an early photoreceptor precursor pattern ( figure 5 ) .
this pattern of expression consist of positive staining by in situ hybridization specifically at the scleral border of the retina during prenatal timepoints ( in the range of e13 – e18 ) .
gnb3 and thrb2 be two example of known cone gene with this early pattern of expression ( figure 5 ) .
two of the 11 novel cone gene identify in this study also have this early photoreceptor pattern of expression ( ece1 and otop3 ) .
intriguingly , three gene show to be up - regulate in rd7 on microarray , but that have either no detectable signal by in situ hybridization at adult stage or no apparent change in expression by in situ hybridization between wild type and rd7 , also show this early photoreceptor pattern ( figure 1 , gene g48 – g50 ) .
the embryonic expression pattern of two of these gene be show in figure 5 ( the embryonic in situ hybridization for the third , g50 , can be find in table s1 ) .
although the significance of such early photoreceptor expression be not know , it be possible that these gene may also be cone - specific but be express at undetectably low level in the adult .
m - opsin and thyroid hormone receptor β2 be unchanged in the rd7 mutant
only two cone - specific gene fail to show any change in expression by either microarray or in situ hybridization in the rd7 mutant : m - opsin ( opn1mw ) and thyroid hormone receptor β2 ( thrb2 ) ( figure s8 ) .
this result be particularly notable because thrb2 be absolutely require for the expression of m - opsin [ 22 ] .
furthermore , the repression of s - opsin expression in the dorsal third of the mouse retina be think to depend , at least in part , on thrb2 since s - opsin show dorsal derepression in the thrb2 mutant [ 22 ] .
despite the derepression of s - opsin see in the ventral portion of the rd7 retina , the normal dorsal repression of this gene be still present in this mutant ( unpublished data ) .
this finding be consistent with the normal expression pattern and function of thrb2 in the rd7 mutant .
one further finding to note be that the cell body of the m - opsin – positive cell appear to be scatter throughout the onl in the rd7 mutant at p14 ( figure s8 ) .
despite this fact , their overall number do not appear to be increase relative to wild - type .
in addition , by p28 , the m - opsin - positive cell body in rd7 appear to have relocate to their normal position at the scleral edge of the onl ( figure s8 ) .
it be know that until p11 , the cell body of cone photoreceptors in the mouse be normally disperse throughout the onl , only to relocate subsequently to the scleral edge of the onl around p12 [ 23 ] .
it be possible that in the rd7 mutant retina , there be a short delay in the relocation of the m - opsin – express cone cell body to the scleral edge of the onl .
rod gene be only modestly and temporarily affect in rd7
in sharp contrast to change in cone gene expression , rod - specific gene be much less severely affect in the rd7 mutant .
microarray and in situ hybridization analysis of numerous rod gene fail to reveal marked change in expression level at p14 and p21 ( see figure 2 , low left photomicrograph ; table s2 ) .
in addition to the three rod gene depict in figure 2 , in situ hybridization analysis on an additional 19 rod - specific and pan - photoreceptor gene demonstrate only a very mild diminution of expression in two of these gene , gucy2e and rgs9 , at p14 , and an increase in expression in two , nr2e3 , and cnga1 ( table s2 ) .
despite the minimal change in rod gene expression at late postnatal timepoints , there be evidence of a significant delay in the onset of rhodopsin ( rho ) expression in rd7 mutant relative to wild - type .
microarray analysis at p6 demonstrate five cdna spot that be down - regulate in three out of three experiment .
of these spot , three correspond to rhodopsin ( table s3 ) .
in situ hybridization analysis of several rod - specific gene at p6 reveal that rhodopsin alone show a markedly low level of expression compare to wild type ( figure 6 ; unpublished data ) .
despite this modest delay in the onset of rhodopsin expression , by p14 the gene have attain nearly normal level in the rd7 mutant ( see figure 2 , low left photomicrograph ) .
this latter finding suggest that all the rod - and many cone - specific gene be coexpressed in the majority of photoreceptors in the rd7 mutant .
change in retinal transcription factor and müller glial gene expression in rd7
analysis of several photoreceptor transcription factor in the rd7 mutant indicate that the level of crx and nrl be unaffected in the mutant at p14 ( see figure 2 , low right photomicrograph ) .
nrl be a rod - specific , basic leucine zipper transcription factor require for the activation of many rod - specific gene and the repression of most cone - specific gene in rod [ 24 ] .
nrl be know to be genetically upstream of nr2e3 and be require for it expression [ 24 ] .
crx be a homeobox transcription factor express in both rod and cone and be require for the expression of a variety of rod - and cone - specific gene [ 25 ] .
in contrast to what be see in the nrl mutant , nr2e3 expression be unchanged in crx mutant homozygote ( unpublished data ) .
strikingly , nr2e3 itself be markedly up - regulate in the rd7 mutant both by microarray and in situ hybridization ( see figure 2 , low right photomicrograph ; table s2 ) .
the rd7 mutant carry a deletion in nr2e3 that remove portion of both the dna - bind and ligand - bind domain [ 15 ] .
although this deletion most likely create a null allele , a residual transcript be clearly present and up - regulate in the rd7 mutant .
this finding suggest that nr2e3 be require for repression of it own transcription .
one gene , riken cdna 4933409k07 ( figure 1 , gene g47 ) , be find to be up - regulate on microarray at all four timepoints examine .
this gene show a unique pattern of expression in the adult rd7 mutant retina .
whereas there be only a barely detectable hint of expression in the inner nuclear layer ( inl ) in the wild - type retina , this gene show strong expression in the middle and vitreal third of the inl as well a patchy expression in the ganglion cell layer ( gcl ) and at the scleral edge of the onl in rd7 ( see table s1 ) .
this in situ hybridization pattern be consistent with staining in müller glia , the principal glial cell type of the mouse retina .
one possible interpretation of this unusual expression pattern be that it represent an early reaction of müller glia to injury in this mutant .
the majority of the photoreceptors in the rd7 retina represent a morphologically hybrid cell type
in order to assess the morphologic effect of the above gene expression change , the ultrastructure of the photoreceptor cell body in the rd7 mutant be examine .
the cell body be choose for evaluation rather than the out segment , since in the mouse , the ultrastructural difference between rod and cone soma be much great than be the difference between the out segment [ 26 ] .
in the wild - type mouse , cone cell body be align along the scleral border of the onl , and they be large than those of rod .
they have a small , more irregular mass of nuclear heterochromatin that be often break up into multiple discrete clump connect by thin thread .
they also have more abundant electron - lucent euchromatin than rod .
lastly , they frequently have a patch of organelle - rich cytoplasm next to their nucleus , usually contain large mitochondrion [ 26 ] .
analysis of toluidine blue - stain semi-thin section reveal that such cone - like cell be present in great abundance in the rd7 retina than in wild - type , and that their soma be scatter throughout the onl ( figure 7 ) .
a comparison between the distribution of these cell and those express s - cone opsin strongly suggest that they represent the same cell population ( compare figure 7d and 7f ) .
analysis of the nuclear morphology of dissociate retinal cell stain for s - cone opsin by dissociate cell in situ hybridization confirm that this be the case ( unpublished data ) .
these finding , along with the absence of rhodopsin staining in these cell ( see figure 3d – 3f ) , suggest that these “ cone - like ” cell in the rd7 mutant retina may represent supernumerary normal cone with an abnormal localization of their cell body .
in contrast to the cone cell body , the wild - type rod soma be small and nearly round .
it have a single , large clump of dense heterochromatin , a thin rim of moderately electron - dense euchromatin , and very scant juxtanuclear cytoplasm without organelle [ 26 , 27 ] .
the second cell population in the onl of the rd7 retina have some of the nuclear feature of normal rod , such a a single , dense mass of heterochromatin and moderately electron - dense euchromatin ( figure 7h ) ; yet these cell also show feature of cone .
first , the euchromatin be , on average , more abundant in these cell than in wild - type rod ( compare figure 7g and 7h ) .
in addition , comparison of the diagrammatic representation of the wild - type and rd7 onls suggest that the average area of the s - opsin – negative cell in rd7 be great than in the wild - type ( figure 7c and 7d ) .
in order to confirm this impression , we quantitated the area of 50 wild - type and 50 mutant rod - like cell body ( see material and method for detail ) .
this experiment confirm that the average area of the rod - like soma in rd7 be approximately 30 % large than that of wild - type rod soma ( mean area in rd7 be 9.75 ± 1.36 ( standard deviation ) μm2 , compare to wild - type rod , with 7.53 ± 0.72 μm2 ; n = 50 ; p = 7.6 × 10 – 16 , student 's t - test ) .
it be also notable that the standard deviation of the somal area be nearly twice as great in rd7 than in wild - type , confirm the subjective impression of great variability in somal size and shape in the mutant compare to the wild - type ( compare figure 7c and 7d ) .
lastly , 38 % ( 19 / 50 ) of the rd7 photoreceptors select for somal area quantitation have prominent juxtanuclear mitochondrion ( red arrow in figure 7h ; unpublished data ) .
such juxtanuclear organelle be only very rarely see in normal rod ( 1.5 % ; six out of 399 cell count ) , but be common in cone ( yellow arrow in figure 7h ) .
in conclusion , it be clear that this second cell population in the rd7 retina have morphological feature of both normal rod and cone consistent with the coexpression of many rod - and cone - specific gene in these cell .
discussion
in this paper we have determine that the primary role of the rod - specific transcription factor , nr2e3 , be to maintain cone gene transcriptionally silent within rod .
we have identify two pattern of cone gene derepression in the rd7 mutant retina , in agreement with a previous report by chen et al. [ 18 ] .
the first pattern of derepression identify ( type i ) consist of ectopic expression of cone gene in the vast majority of cell in the onl .
these cell be also show to coexpress all rod gene test .
consistent with the hybrid pattern of gene expression in these cell , electron microscopic analysis reveal them to be morphologically intermediate between normal rod and cone .
although gene show type i derepression demonstrate staining in the majority of cell in the onl , two line of evidence suggest that these gene be not completely derepressed in these cell when compare to their expression in s - opsin – express cone .
first , close evaluation of the staining pattern of a number of type i gene in the rd7 mutant retina ( e.g. , see table s1 , gene g9 , g19 , and g24 ) , reveal that , in addition to the background staining throughout the onl , there be a more darkly stain subpopulation of cell scatter throughout this layer in a distribution correspond to that of the supernumerary s - cone opsin - express cell .
this pattern of staining suggest that these gene be more highly express in s - opsin express cell than in the hybrid cell of the rd7 retina .
the second line of evidence derive from a comparison of the expression pattern of many type i gene in rd7 and nrl − / − mutant background .
a mention above , nrl be a retinal transcription factor that , when mutate , result in en masse conversion of rod into s - opsin – express cone [ 24 ] .
it can be infer from this fact that nrl be absolutely require for the normal silencing of cone - specific gene in rod .
in the nrl homozygous mutant , there be a strong and more uniform derepression of many cone - specific gene throughout the onl than be see in the rd7 retina ( unpublished data ) .
this finding far suggest that , in addition to it repression of cone gene expression via induction of nr2e3 expression , nrl exert an additional level of negative control over cone gene either directly or via a second , as yet uncharacterized , repressor .
the second pattern of derepression see in the rd7 retina ( type ii ) , be represent by a scattered population of cell throughout the onl that show derepression of several cone - specific gene , include s - cone opsin .
by ultrastructural criterion , these cell appear to be normal cone , albeit with displace cell body .
quantitation of these supernumerary s - cone opsin - positive cell indicate that they be approximately 2-fold more abundant than in normal retina , consistent with previous antibody study [ 17 ] .
two recent study have present data that be consistent with many of the finding in our study [ 18 , 19 ] .
both study show that cone gene in addition to s - cone opsin be derepressed in the mouse rd7 mutant .
in addition , peng et al. [ 19 ] find by rt - pcr that the level of several rod - specific gene , include rhodopsin , be modestly reduce in rd7 at p28 .
our in situ hybridization data suggest that rhodopsin expression be markedly reduce at p6 , but that it attain level indistinguishable from wild - type by p14 .
since the change in rhodopsin level identify by peng et al. be relatively small ( an approximately 15 % reduction ) , it be not surprising that such a difference be not detect by in situ hybridization .
the overall finding of modest reduction in rod - specific gene expression be entirely in keep with the result of the present study .
in addition to demonstrate derepression of a range of known cone - specific gene in rd7 mutant , chen et al. [ 18 ] show up - regulation by northern blot of two additional gene in the rd7 mutant , elovl2 and fabp7 .
these two gene be also find to be up - regulate in rd7 in the present study ( see figure 1 ; table s1 ) .
although we find elovl2 to have a cone - enrich pattern of expression ( see figure 1 ) , in situ hybridization analysis of fabp7 fail to show a signal in wild - type or mutant retina ( unpublished data ) .
nevertheless , previous study have suggest that fabp7 be express in radial glia and immature astrocyte in the brain [ 28 – 30 ] .
give the expression pattern elsewhere in the nervous system , it be possible that fabp7 be up - regulate in müller glia in the rd7 retina in response to injury in a manner akin to the novel müller glial gene identify in this study , riken cdna 4933409k07 ( figure 1 , gene g47 ) .
indirect support for this idea be provide by the observation that fabp7 be up - regulate by microarray analysis in nrl and crx mutant retina as well ( unpublished data ) , suggest that this change may represent a generalize response to injury in the retina rather than derepression of a cone - enrich gene .
the study by chen et al. [ 18 ] make two further observation worthy of note .
first , they identify a zebrafish homolog of nr2e3 and show it to be express in photoreceptors .
interestingly , they show that this homolog appear to have a pan-photoreceptor pattern of expression early in development that later resolve into a rod - specific pattern of expression .
this early expression in cone may represent a mechanism whereby the expression of cone - specific gene product be temporarily repress .
it will be important to determine the extent to which the function of nr2e3 have be conserve in the retina of such a distantly relate organism .
secondly , chen et al. [ 18 ] use an in vitro oligonucleotide selection protocol to determine the preferred binding site for nr2e3 .
this information will be very useful for future bioinformatic analysis of nr2e3 target gene .
the gene expression change identify in the rd7 mutant retina in the present study suggest the scheme of gene regulation in mouse rod depict in figure 8 .
a this diagram imply , there appear to be at least two different repressor of cone gene within rod , nr2e3 and either nrl itself or an additional unknown transcription factor downstream of nrl , here term “ transcription factor x . ”
in fact , it appear that the difference between type i and type ii cone gene may simply depend on which repressor — nr2e3 or transcription factor x — be primarily responsible for the regulation of the gene in question .
in the case of type i gene , nr2e3 be the primary repressor and transcription factor x be of secondary importance .
in the case of type ii gene , transcription factor x exert the major repressive effect on transcription , and nr2e3 play a less , but still important role .
in contrast to the marked derepression of the vast majority of cone - specific gene in the rd7 mutant , two gene stand out a be unaffected by the mutation : the gene encode m - opsin and thrb2 .
a thrb2 be know to be require for the expression of m - opsin [ 22 ] , the absence of supernumerary m - opsin – positive cell may simply be a consequence of the fact that thrb2 expression be unchanged in the rd7 mutant .
further support for this idea have be provide by recent work in our lab show widespread derepression of cone gene in the notch1 − / − retina ( unpublished data ) .
in contrast to the rd7 mutant , notch1 − / − retina show marked derepression of thrb2 and a corresponding derepression of the gene that encode m - opsin .
an additional observation suggest that m - opsin and s - opsin be control by different mechanism come from in vitro experiment [ 31 , 32 ] .
while explanted p3 retina express s - opsin and m - opsin with normal kinetics , explanted p0 retina express only s - opsin [ 32 ] .
the factor ( s ) control these difference be unknown , but may be intrinsic , a cocultures of old and young retina , condition medium from old retina , and addition of a variety of small molecule be unable to promote the expression of m - opsin in the p0 - initiate culture [ 32 ] .
in contrast to our finding , peng et al. [ 19 ] report that m - opsin expression be mildly increase in the rd7 mutant retina .
it be possible that a subtle increase in m - opsin transcript level do occur in the rd7 retina , and that this difference could not be detect by in situ hybridization .
since virtually all m - opsin – express cell be localize at the out edge of the onl by p28 in the rd7 mutant ( figure s8 ) , any increase in m - opsin transcript in the mutant must have occur in cell in that location .
a variety of novel cone - specific or cone - enrich gene be characterize in this study .
one of these gene , pygm , be involve in glycogen / glucose metabolism , and a second , glo1 , be require for detoxification of methylglyoxal , a byproduct of glycolysis [ 33 ] .
a third gene involve in glucose metabolism , hexokinase 2 ( hk2 ) , be also derepressed in the rd7 mutant and show a pattern of expression in the wild - type retina , suggest great expression in cone than in rod ( see figure 1 ; table s1 ) .
a fourth gene involve in glucose metabolism , glucokinase regulatory protein ( gckr ) , be find to be increase in three out of three microarrays at p21 but be not test by in situ hybridization ( table s4 ) .
the increase expression of gckr in rd7 mutant retina suggest that it too may be a cone - enrich gene .
a previous study find that two of these gene , pygm and hk2 , have markedly elevate tag level in an onl - specific serial analysis of gene expression library consistent with their be highly enriched in wild - type photoreceptors [ 34 ] .
furthermore , prior study have suggest difference in glycogen and glucose metabolism between primate rod and cone [ 35 ] .
our finding lend further support to this concept .
interestingly , pygm have be implicate in human disease .
mutation in this gene underlie mcardle 's disease ( glycogen storage disease type v ) , the symptom of which include exercise intolerance , muscle cramp , and myoglobinuria [ 36 ] .
to our knowledge , no abnormality of retinal function have be report .
one of the most curious finding in the rd7 mutant retina be the occurrence of two different type of change : an increase in the number of s - opsin – express cone and a transformation of rod into hybrid photoreceptors .
it be know that nr2e3 be express only in rod , and the transcript be first detectable in postmitotic cell ( j. trimarchi and clc , unpublished data ) .
assume that nr2e3 act cell autonomously , we can conclude that the supernumerary s - cone – positive cell and the hybrid photoreceptors identify in the rd7 retina be redirect to these fate from postmitotic cell that be destine to become rod .
this conclusion raise this question : why do loss of a single transcription factor within rod precursor lead to two alternative fate — a hybrid cell type on the one hand and apparently normal s - cone on the other ?
there be at least two possible explanation for these difference .
first , it be possible that there be two distinct type of rod precursor ; loss of nr2e3 in one lead to s - cone fate and in the other result in a hybrid cell type .
in fact , there be experimental evidence from the rat to support the conclusion that early - bear and late - bear rod be intrinsically different [ 37 ] .
one test of the hypothesis that there be two temporally distinct rod precursor population would be to carry out birthdating experiment to determine whether the supernumerary s - opsin – positive cell in the rd7 retina derive exclusively from an early - or late - bear population .
of course , if this be not the case , this experiment could not rule out the possibility that molecularly distinct population of rod precursor be present simultaneously in the develop retina .
an alternative explanation would be that there be only a single , homogeneous population of postmitotic rod precursor in the mouse , and a stochastic event trigger assumption of the s - cone fate in a small subpopulation of these cell in the rd7 mutant .
recent study in a variety of experiment system suggest that such a stochastic , all - or - none mechanism of gene activation be commonplace [ 38 – 44 ] .
in this scenario , the absence of nr2e3 would alter the probability that an unknown master control gene be express in rod precursor .
once this event take place , it would initiate an irreversible program of differentiation toward s - cone fate , albeit at a relatively low frequency .
in this way , a subset of cell from an initially homogeneous population would select the s - cone fate in an entirely probabilistic manner .
human patient with escs display three type of abnormality attributable to the retina : ( 1 ) an atypical erg waveform that be preferentially sensitive to short - wavelength light , ( 2 ) slowly progressive retinal degeneration , and ( 3 ) abnormal retinal lamination with rosette formation [ 1 , 12 , 13 ] .
the rd7 mutant mouse also demonstrate the latter two defect , but have a normal erg [ 15 , 45 ] .
these similarity and difference between the two specie help to explain the possible mechanistic basis of the escs .
the fact that the rd7 mouse have a normal erg strongly suggest that the aberrant erg in escs be not attributable to the activity of a hybrid photoreceptor identical to that find in this study .
namely , the signal be unlikely to derive from a population of cell coexpressing both rod and cone gene but whose photopigment be rhodopsin and not s - cone opsin .
this conclusion be consistent with the evidence from human escs patient indicate a markedly reduce rod system and a lack of measurable rhodopsin by reflection densitometry [ 1 , 2 , 10 , 11 ] .
it be also unlikely that we would fail to detect an escs - like erg signal in mouse if it be present , a such a signal have be demonstrate in the nrl mutant mouse , which have a near total transformation of all it rod into blue cone [ 24 ] .
these finding , however , do not rule out the possibility that the abnormal human erg derive from a hybrid photoreceptor cell type that also express s - opsin .
it be possible that there be gene regulatory difference between mouse and human such that in human nr2e3 mutant , s - opsin show a type i pattern of derepression rather than a type ii a in see in the rd7 mouse , and be therefore express in all of the hybrid photoreceptor cell .
alternatively , the ratio of supernumerary s - cone to hybrid photoreceptors produce in the retina of escs patient might be such that a high percentage of the presumptive rod in escs patient become s - cone rather than hybrid photoreceptors .
a discuss above , this ratio could depend either on the relative percentage of two distinct rod precursor population or on stochastic effect on regulatory gene expression .
in contrast to the erg difference between mouse rd7 and human nr2e3 mutant , both specie demonstrate slow retinal degeneration .
it be possible that this degeneration be attributable to the abnormal function of the hybrid photoreceptor cell type characterize in the present study .
the coexpression of both rod and cone gene in the same cell could predispose the cell to apoptosis .
the final common feature between mouse rd7 and human nr2e3 mutant be the presence of an abnormally laminate retina with waviness and rosette formation in the onl [ 12 – 15 ] .
the cause of this abnormality be not know , but it be possibly relate to defect in photoreceptor cell polarity in the rd7 mutant .
rosette formation and abnormally wavy epithelium be common sequela of defect in pathway control cell polarity [ 46 , 47 ] .
in particular , loss - of - function mutation in the polarity gene crumb ( crb1 ) have be show to cause morphological abnormality of the onl in both human and mouse , include rosette formation in mouse very similar to that see in the rd7 mutant [ 48 , 49 ] .
interestingly , sharon et al. [ 5 ] have recently point out additional feature share by patient with crb1 mutation and mutation in nr2e3 , include hyperopic refractive error and a distinctive pattern of clump pigmentation in the retina .
in the present study we find the mouse crumb ortholog to be up - regulate in the rd7 mutant retina by microarray , consistent with it high expression level in cone than in rod [ 50 ] .
although we be unable to confirm this finding by in situ hybridization due to the weakness of the signal , it be possible that the up - regulation of crumb in the retina be the cause of the lamination defect see in the rd7 mutant .
overexpression of wild - type crumb in drosophila have be show to cause polarity defect lead to waviness of epithelium and even to misalignment of nucleus within photoreceptors analogous to what be see in the rd7 retina [ 47 , 51 ] .
future experiment will address this question by overexpressing full - length crb1 in a wild - type background .
one further point worthy of note be the striking similarity between the hybrid photoreceptor identify in this study and a naturally occur photoreceptor find in ground squirrel .
the “ rod ” of this specie have electrophysiologic , molecular , and ultrastructural feature of both rod and cone [ 52 – 58 ] .
although these unusual finding have be difficult to interpret under the usual assumption of “ duplicity theory ” [ 56 ] , we would like to suggest that ground squirrel may have experience a naturally occur down - regulation or loss of nr2e3 expression in their “ rod ” that transform them into a hybrid photoreceptor cell type .
the adaptive significance of such a change , if any , be unknown , and it may simply be due to relaxation of selective pressure for night vision in this strictly diurnal specie .
material and method
mutant mouse .
nr2e3rd7 mutant mouse be obtain from jackson laboratory ( bar harbor , maine , united state ; stock # 004643 ) and maintain on a c57bl / 6 background .
all control mouse be c57bl / 6 .
microarray analysis .
total retinal rna sample be isolate from p0 , p6 , p14 , and p21 nr2e3 mutant mouse use the trizol reagent ( gibco , san diego , california . united state ) .
total retinal rna sample from age - match wild - type c57bl / 6 mouse be use a control .
individual total rna sample be derive from four retina ( pool from two animal ) .
all microarray experiment be perform in triplicate , in each case with separate rna preparation .
microarray experiment with cdna be perform with the p0 , p6 , and p14 derive sample .
probe be label with either cy3 or cy5 use the array 900 kit from genisphere ( hatfield , pennsylvania , united state ) start with 5 μg of total rna accord to the manufacturer 's instruction .
wild - type control probe be compare to mutant on the same microarray .
in two of the three replicates , the mutant probe be label with cy3 and the wild type with cy5 , and in the third replicate the dye be swap .
label probe be hybridize to microarray slide spot with approximately 11,500 cdna clone from the brain molecular anatomy project library ( kind gift of b. soares , university of iowa ; see http://trans.nih.gov/bmap/index.htm for detail ) and 500 cdna clone from our lab collection .
slide be print and hybridize a describe [ 59 , 60 ] .
after hybridization and washing of slide accord to the manufacturer 's instruction ( genisphere ) , the slide be scan on an axon instrument ( union city , california , united state ) genepix 4000 scanner and image be analyze use the accompany genepix pro software package .
the complete raw cdna microarray data set be available in table s6 – s14 .
two type of normalization be perform on the raw intensity score derive from the genepix pro analysis .
first , for a give experiment , the average intensity of all the spot in the weak of the two channel ( cy3 or cy5 ) be normalize to those in the strong channel .
second , in a give set of experiment do in triplicate at a particular time point , the two experiment with the weak average signal intensity over all spot be normalize to those in the third microarray with the strong average signal intensity .
all spot with signal level equal to or below background be remove from the analysis .
the result file contain on average about 6,000 spot .
these file be then sort accord to cy3 / cy5 signal intensity , and those spot with the 10 % high and 10 % low intensity ratio ( approximately 600 spot / experiment ) be compare across the three experiment at a give time point use custom perl script ( available upon request from jcc ) .
all spot which be present in the top 10 % most up - or down - regulate gene in two out of three or three out of three experiment be record ( the latter be list in table s3 ) .
microarray analysis of the p21 retina be perform on affymetrix mouse genome 430 2.0 genechip array ( affymetrix , santa clara , california , united state ) .
a total of six microarray hybridization be perform : three with probe derive from mutant rna and three from wild - type .
probe be synthesize start with 10 μg of total rna for each sample accord to manufacturer 's instruction ( affymetrix ) .
hybridization , washing , and scanning of the microarrays be all perform at the bauer center for genomics research at harvard university accord to manufacturer 's instruction ( affymetrix ) .
initial data analysis be carry out use the genechip operating system ( gcos ) software from affymetrix .
pairwise comparison be make between individual mutant microarray result and control .
all gene be remove from the analysis for which “ absent ” call be make by the software for both the wild - type and mutant sample be compare .
the remain gene list contain approximately 26,000 transcript .
these list be then sort accord to the mutant - to - wild - type “ signal log ratio ” in order to identify the most markedly up - and down - regulate gene .
the top 500 most up - and down - regulate transcript ( approximately 2 % of all gene in each case ) from each of the three pairwise comparison between mutant and wild - type be compare use custom perl script ( available upon request from jcc ) to identify those gene that be present in two or three out of three list .
those gene that be up - or down - regulate in three out of three experiment be record ( table s4 and s5 ) .
the complete pairwise affymetrix microarray datasets be available in table s15 – s17 .
in situ hybridization .
section in situ hybridization be perform a previously describe [ 61 ] use 20 - μm cryosections from oct - embed tissue or 4 - μm paraffin section .
all in situ hybridization be perform with the mutant and wild - type control section on the same glass slide .
riboprobes label with digoxygenin - tag utp ( roche , basel , switzerland ) be detect with nbt / bcip ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) .
the source of the individual riboprobes use in this study be describe in table s1 and s2 .
dissociate cell in situ hybridization be perform a describe previously [ 62 ] use the same s - opsin digoxygenin - labeled probe use for section in situ hybridization .
all image be capture on a compound microscope ( eclipse e1000 ; nikon , tokyo , japan ) use a ccd camera ( dxm1200f , nikon ) .
s - opsin positive cell be quantitated on dissociate cell in situ hybridization a previously describe [ 62 ] .
twenty field be quantitated in this manner at 200 × magnification for both rd7 and wild - type retina .
immunohistochemistry .
for antibody staining , cryosections be prepare and stain a describe previously [ 63 ] .
primary antibody use be a polyclonal anti-blue opsin raise in rabbit ( 1 : 300 ; chemicon international , temecula , california , united state ; ab5407 ) and a mouse monoclonal anti-rhodopsin ( 1 : 200 ; rho4d2 ) .
secondary antibody use be cy2 - or cy3 - conjugate goat anti-rabbit and anti-mouse ( 1 : 500 ; jackson immunologicals , west grove , pennsylvania , united state ) .
follow antibody staining , 4 ′ - dapi be apply to stain nucleus ( sigma ) , and the section be coverslipped and mount in gel / mount ( biomeda , foster city , california , united state ) .
electron microscopy .
this protocol be adapt from one use by raviola [ 64 ] with some modification derive from carter - dawson and lavail [ 26 ] .
four adult wild - type and four mutant animal be deeply anesthetize by intraperitoneal injection of avertin and the eye be then remove .
the cornea be gently puncture with sharp forceps and excise with iridectomy scissors .
the eye be then transfer to a solution of 2 % paraformaldehyde / 2 % glutaraldehyde in cacodylate buffer ( 0.1 m cacodylic acid ; 0.1 % calcium chloride ) .
the lens be gently remove and the eyecup allow to fix for 2 h at room temperature .
the fix eye be then place on dental wax and section in the midline with a fresh razor blade ( half of the retina be section along the d - v axis and half along the nasal - temporal axis ) .
the retina ( and attach retinal pigment epithelium ) be carefully dissect away from the sclera , which be discard .
the retina be then rinse four time for 15 min each with sorenson 's buffer ( ph 7.4 ) .
they be then stain for 2 h at 4 °c with 1 % osmium tetroxide in 1.5 % potassium ferrocyanide .
next , the retina be rinse four time for 15 min in maleate buffer ( ph 5.1 ) and then stain for 2 h at room temperature with 1 % uranyl acetate in maleate buffer ( ph 6.2 ) .
they be then wash four time for 15 min with maleate buffer ( ph 5.1 ) ; once for 10 min with 70 % ethanol ; once for 10 min with 95 % ethanol ; and four time for 30 min with 100 % ethanol .
next , the retina be wash three time over one hour with propylene oxide and then embed in taab 812 resin ( marivac , quebec , canada ) for 1 – 2 d in a 60 °c oven .
semi-thin section be cut at a thickness of 0.5 μm and stain with 1 % toluidine blue in 1 % sodium borate buffer .
image of semi-thin section from the mutant retina be take within the ventral two - third of the retina where the majority of the supernumerary s - opsin – express cell reside .
wild - type image be take in comparable region .
section for electron microscopy be cut at a thickness of 95 nm , place on grid , and poststained with 2 % uranyl acetate follow by 0.2 % lead citrate .
all section be cut in a plane perpendicular to the plane of the photoreceptor layer .
they be then visualize on a jeol 1200ex electron microscope ( jeol , tokyo , japan ) .
the electron microscopic image in figure 7 derive from the ventral two - third of the wild - type and mutant retina .
the area of the cell body of the rod and “ rod - like ” cell in the wild - type and mutant onls , respectively , be quantitated in the follow manner .
first , ten field within the onl be choose at random at 1,000 × magnification and then photograph at 4,000 × magnification for each of the two genotype .
such image typically contain 35 – 45 cell body .
in order to quantitate only the area of those cell body that be cut as near to the midline of the cell a possible ( i.e. , in order to obtain the maximal cross - sectional area ) the five cell with the large apparent area in each photograph be choose by eye and the outline of the cell membrane be trace onto white paper .
these tracing be scan along with the size bar from the electron micrographs , and the area of the result digital image be quantitated use scion image software ( nih image , http://rsb.info.nih.gov/nih - image ) .
a total of 50 cell of each genotype be quantitated in this manner .
in addition , in order to evaluate the percentage of rod in the wild - type retina that have any juxtanuclear mitochondrion , all rod within all ten image be count a be the number of cell show juxtanuclear organelle .
a total of six out of 399 wild - type rod ( 1.5 % ) possess a juxtanuclear organelle .
this analysis permit u to evaluate the wild - type rod for juxtanuclear mitochondrion at multiple plane of section ; however , serial section of individual cell body be not perform .
support information
figure s1 – s7 show the in situ hybridization image of all gene discuss in the paper ( see table s1 and s2 ) .
all pair image ( which show the wild - type control on the left and the rd7 mutant retina on the right ) be label in the low left - hand corner with the gene symbol follow by the age of the retina in question ( p6 , p14 , p28 , or adult ) .
unpaired image represent prenatal time point and be label with the gene symbol of the gene in question ( “ wt ” indicate that the retina be from a wild - type animal ) and a designation of the embryonic day from which the retina derive ( e.g. , e17.5 = embryonic day 17.5 ) .
figure s1
in situ hybridization image for g1 – g13 in table s1
( 3.1 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
in situ hybridization image for g14 – g25 in table s1
( 2.4 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
in situ hybridization image for g26 – g35 in table s1
( 2.1 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
in situ hybridization image for g36 – g46 in table s1
( 2.0 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s5
in situ hybridization image for g47 – g53 in table s1
( 1.7 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s6
in situ hybridization image for gene 1 – 11 in table s2
( 2.9 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s7
in situ hybridization image for gene 12 – 22 in table s2
( 3.2 mb jpg )
click here for additional data file .
figure s8
in situ hybridization result for m - opsin and thrb2
note that the m - opsin – positive cell be scatter throughout the onl at p14 , but appear to have migrate to the scleral edge of the onl by p28 .
there be no change in the number of m - opsin – or thrb2 - positive cell in the rd7 mutant .
( 2.1 mb pdf )
click here for additional data file .
table s1
cone - specific and cone - enrich gene evaluate in the rd7 mutant by microarray and in situ hybridization
this table be a supplemental version of figure 1 .
“ figure number ” indicate which figure ( figure s1 – s5 ) contain the in situ hybridization image correspond to the gene in question .
“ lab clone information ” indicate the region of the gene in question from which the probe use for in situ hybridization be derive .
all abbreviation be a indicate in figure 1 .
( 26 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s2
rod gene evaluate in the rd7 mutant by in situ hybridization
this table contain detail about the in situ hybridization pattern of 22 gene ( many of which be rod - specific ) evaluate in the rd7 mutant retina .
“ figure number ” indicate which figure ( figure s6 or s7 ) contain the in situ hybridization image correspond to the gene in question .
“ lab clone information ” indicate the region of the gene in question from which the probe use for in situ hybridization be derive .
the color coding of the in situ hybridization result under “ in situ pattern ” be a follow : dark green , markedly down - regulate ; light green , mildly down - regulate ; red , markedly up - regulate ; orange , mildly up - regulate .
( 20 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s3
summary of cdna microarray result from p0 , p6 , and p14
the spot list in this table represent those that be either up - or down - regulate in three out of three microarray experiment a describe in material and method .
the cy3 / cy5 signal ratio be indicate for all three microarray experiment at each time point .
note that the cy3 / cy5 ratio for “ microarray # 3 ” be reverse relative to the other two , since the fluorescent tag use to label wild - type and mutant rna be swap a describe in material and method .
( 22 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s4
summary of gene up - regulate in rd7 mutant retina at p21 by affymetrix microarray
only gene that be find to be up - regulate in three out of three microarray experiment ( a describe in material and method ) be list .
“ nr2e3 signal ” and “ c57bl / 6 signal ” represent the average signal for that transcript in all three microarray experiment .
( 92 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s5
summary of gene down - regulate in rd7 mutant retina at p21 by affymetrix microarray
only gene that be find to be down - regulate in three out of three microarray experiment ( a describe in material and method ) be list .
“ nr2e3 signal ” and “ c57bl / 6 signal ” represent the average signal for that transcript in all three microarray experiment .
( 58 kb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s6
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p0 ( i )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s7
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p0 ( ii )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s8
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p0 ( iii )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s9
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p6 ( i )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s10
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p6 ( ii )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s11
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p6 ( iii )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s12
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p14 ( i )
( 5.5 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s13
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p14 ( ii )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s14
raw cdna microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p14 ( iii )
( 5.6 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s15
raw affymetrix microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p21 ( i )
( 18 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s16
raw affymetrix microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p21 ( ii )
( 18 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
table s17
raw affymetrix microarray data for rd7 versus wild - type comparison at p21 ( iii )
( 18 mb xl )
click here for additional data file .
acknowledgement
we be grateful to e. raviola and t. reese for help with electron microscopy and to a. jadhav and j. trimarchi for access to unpublished data and reagent .
thanks to a. jadhav , j. trimarchi , d. kim , and t. cherry for helpful comment on the manuscript .
this work be support by the howard hughes medical institute and grant from the national institute of health ( ey014822 to jcc and ey009676 to clc ) .
thanks to a. swaroop for provide u with nrl mutant mouse .
abbreviation
dapi - 6 - diamidino - 2 - phenylindole
e [ number ] - embryonic day [ number ]
erg - electroretinogram
escs - enhance s - cone syndrome
gcl - ganglion cell layer
inl - inner nuclear layer
onl - out nuclear layer
p [ number ] - postnatal day [ number ]
figure
figure 1
cone - specific and cone - enrich gene evaluate in the rd7 mutant by microarray and in situ hybridization
the color coding of text in the column “ gene name ” be a follow : light blue ( g1 – g15 ) , gene previously report in the literature to have cone - specific or cone - enrich pattern of expression ; yellow ( g16 – g25 ) , novel cone gene identify in an unrelated study ( unpublished data ) ; dark green ( g26 – g36 ) , novel cone gene identify in the present study that be up - regulate in rd7 ; light green ( g37 – g46 ) , additional gene find to be up - regulate in rd7 by microarray in the present study but that have either weak or inapparent cone - specific signal on in situ hybridization ; white ( g47 – g53 ) , additional gene up - regulate by microarray at two different timepoints but with either unusual expression pattern or nonconfirmatory in situ hybridization .
the column “ id ” contain identifier use in the present paper to refer to specific gene .
“ genbank id ” contain the genbank accession number of the clone use to make the probe for in situ hybridization .
within this column , “ lab clone ” indicate that the probe use for in situ hybridization derive from a clone in our laboratory .
the region of the gene to which it correspond be indicate in table s1 .
column “ p0 ” through “ p21 ” contain the result of microarray experiment at the give postnatal date .
p0 , p6 , and p14 time point represent analysis on cdna microarrays ; the p21 time point represent data from an affymetrix microarray ( mouse genome 432 2.0 ) .
a red cell with a single up arrow indicate that the gene in question be up - regulate in three out of three microarrays at that time point ( a describe in material and method ) .
those cell label orange with a single up arrow and asterisk indicate that the gene in question be up - regulate in two out of three microarrays at that time point .
the column “ in situ ” list the type of derepression see for the gene in question in the rd7 mutant retina ( type i and type ii be describe in the main text ) .
gene designate “ unclassified ” represent pattern of derepression that be difficult to classify a either type i or type ii ( see main text for more detail ) .
“ wild type ” in this column indicate that the in situ hybridization pattern in the rd7 mutant retina be not different from the wild - type pattern ; and “ special ” indicate a special pattern of expression discuss more fully in the main text .
the column “ expression pattern ” contain a concise description of the wild - type expression pattern of the gene in question .
in the case of gene for which no signal be obtain on in situ hybridization in the present study , the specify expression pattern derive from report in the literature .
within this column , “ cone > rod ” indicate that the gene be express in all photoreceptors , but at high level in cone than rod ; “ cone ? ” indicate very weak staining in a cone - like distribution .
bp , bipolar cell ; ep , early photoreceptor expression pattern ; is , inner core segment localization ; mg , müller glia ; n / a , not available on the microarray ; n , no signal detect on in situ hybridization ; rpe , retinal pigment epithelium .
figure 2
cone and rod gene expression in the rd7 mutant at p14
the upper set of photomicrograph demonstrate example of type i and type ii cone gene derepression in the rd7 mutant retina a explain in the main text .
the bottom left image show several rod - specific gene that be essentially unchanged in the rd7 background at p14 .
the bottom right image show the expression pattern of three photoreceptor transcription factor in the rd7 mutant .
abbreviation in the low left hand corner of each pair of panel represent the gene symbol summarize in figure 1 .
figure 3
s - opsin dissociate cell in situ hybridization and s - opsin / rhodopsin antibody stain on rd7 mutant retina
( a – c ) a dissociate cell in situ hybridization with an s - opsin probe ( red ) on dissociate rd7 mutant retinal cell stain with dapi ( blue ) .
( c ) show the merge image .
( d – f ) the out nuclear layer of an rd7 mutant retina stain by antibody for s - opsin ( red ) and rhodopsin ( green ) .
the scleral edge of the out nuclear layer be up .
dapi staining be in blue .
( f ) show the merge image .
inset be high - power image of the out segment show non-overlap of s - opsin and rhodopsin staining in the mutant .
figure 4
expression pattern of several novel cone gene up - regulate in rd7
in the wild - type image ( wt ) , note the scatter , weakly positive cell at the scleral edge of the out nuclear layer in a cone distribution .
all of the gene show marked up - regulation in the rd7 mutant .
bub1b and tcta show transcript localization predominantly to the inner segment of the photoreceptors .
retina be orient such that the scleral edge be up .
figure 5
some of the gene up - regulate in rd7 show an early photoreceptor pattern of expression
gnb3 and thrb2 be both previously characterize cone gene that show staining at the scleral edge of the embryonic mouse retina in cell that will differentiate into photoreceptors .
ece1 and otop3 be two novel cone gene identify in this study that be up - regulate in rd7 and also show an early photoreceptor pattern of expression .
prdm1 and riken cdna 1300018i05 ( figure 1 , gene g48 and g49 , respectively ) be two other gene that have either undetectable signal ( prdm1 ) or no apparent change in expression pattern in adult rd7 mutant ( riken cdna 1300018i05 ) , but which also show staining in the embryonic retina in a presumptive photoreceptor pattern .
all image be from e17.5 retina except gnb3 , which be from e16 .
figure 6
the onset of rhodopsin expression be delay in the rd7 mutant retina
note the nearly undetectable staining for rhodopsin in this p6 mutant retina ( top right ) .
the majority of rod - specific gene do not show this delay in expression onset , a indicate by the normal amount of staining for pde6a in the mutant at p6 ( bottom image ) .
figure 7
the rd7 mutant retina contain a morphologically hybrid photoreceptor cell type in addition to supernumerary s - opsin – positive cone
( a and b ) toluidine blue - stain semi-thin section of the out nuclear layer ( scleral edge orient up ) .
( c and d ) hand - draw diagram of the cell in ( a ) and ( b ) , respectively .
cell with the nuclear feature of cone be highlight in blue .
note that the number of such cell be great in the mutant , and their cell body be scatter throughout the out nuclear layer .
in addition , the overall columnar architecture of the out nuclear layer see in the wild type be disrupt in this portion of the mutant retina .
other portion of the mutant retina with few supernumerary cone cell , however , retain the normal columnar appearance ( unpublished data ) .
( e and f ) image of the out nuclear layer ( scleral edge up ) stain by in situ hybridization for s - opsin .
note the typical pattern of staining at the scleral edge of the out nuclear layer in the wild type .
the rd7 mutant retina show supernumerary s - opsin – positive cell scatter throughout the out nuclear layer in a distribution very similar to the supernumerary cone cell see in ( b ) .
since image ( e ) and ( f ) derive from different retina than those depict in ( a ) and ( b ) , the location of the individual cell do not correspond .
( g and h ) electron micrographs of the out nuclear layer ( 10,000 × magnification ) .
note the uniform distribution of rod cell body in the wild type ( g ) .
the cell body be nearly round and consist almost exclusively of a nucleus with a single , dense mass of heterochromatin .
in the rd7 mutant ( h ) , two type of cell be show .
the ovoid one with a less quantity of heterochromatin , pale euchromatin , and two juxtanuclear mitochondrion ( yellow arrow ) represent a typical cone cell body .
the adjacent cell with a more “ rod - like ” mass of heterochromatin and a single juxtanuclear mitochondrion ( red arrow ) represent one of the hybrid photoreceptors discuss more fully in the main text .
figure 8
a partial view of the rod photoreceptor transcriptional regulatory network
note that green line indicate activation , and yellow and red line indicate weak and strong repression , respectively .
the dotted line associate with a question mark indicate that it be not know whether nrl directly repress the target gene in question or whether it repression be mediate by a downstream transcription factor ( “ x ” ) .
note that nr2e3 appear to negatively regulate it own transcription .
the regulatory linkage depict in this diagram be not necessarily direct .
the weak activation of some rod - specific gene by nr2e3 be omit from this diagram for clarity .
also not show be the role of other photoreceptor transcription factor , such a crx .
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
jcc and clc conceive and design the experiment .
jcc perform the experiment .
jcc and clc analyze the data .
jcc contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
jcc and clc write the paper .
citation : corbo jc , cepko cl ( 2005 ) a hybrid photoreceptor express both rod and cone gene in a mouse model of enhance s - cone syndrome .
plo genet 1 ( 2 ) : e11 .
the notch ligand jag1 be require for sensory progenitor development in the mammalian inner ear
abstract
in mammal , six separate sensory region in the inner ear be essential for hearing and balance function .
each sensory region be make up of hair cell , which be the sensory cell , and their associate support cell , both arise from a common progenitor .
little be know about the molecular mechanism that govern the development of these sensory organ .
notch signaling play a pivotal role in the differentiation of hair cell and support cell by mediate lateral inhibition via the ligand delta - like 1 and jagged ( jag ) 2 .
however , another notch ligand , jag1 , be express early in the sensory patch prior to cell differentiation , indicate that there may be an early role for notch signaling in sensory development in the ear .
here , use conditional gene targeting , we show that the jag1 gene be require for the normal development of all six sensory organ within the inner ear .
cristae be completely lack in jag1 - conditional knockout ( cko ) mutant inner ear , whereas the cochlea and utricle show partial sensory development .
the saccular macula be present but malformed .
use sox2 and p27kip1 a molecular marker of the prosensory domain , we show that jag1 be initially express in all the prosensory region of the ear , but become down - regulate in the nascent organ of corti by embryonic day 14.5 , when the cell exit the cell cycle and differentiate .
we also show that both sox2 and p27kip1 be down - regulate in jag1 - cko inner ear .
take together , these data demonstrate that jag1 be express early in the prosensory domain of both the cochlear and vestibular region , and be require to maintain the normal expression level of both sox2 and p27kip1 .
these data demonstrate that jag1 - mediate notch signaling be essential during early development for establish the prosensory region of the inner ear .
synopsis
deafness and adult - onset hearing loss be significant health problem .
in most case , deafness or vestibular dysfunction result when the sensory cell in the inner ear , know a hair cell , degenerate due to environmental or genetic cause .
in the mammalian inner ear , the hair cell and their associate support cell can be find in six different patch that have particular function relate to hearing or balance .
unfortunately , unlike in bird or fish , mammalian hair cell show little ability to regenerate , result in a permanent hearing or balance disorder when damage .
here , the author show that a protein call jag1 , a ligand in the notch signaling pathway , be require for the normal development of all six sensory region in the mammalian inner ear .
in ear that lack jag1 , some of the sensory patch be missing completely , whereas others be small and lack particular cell type .
the author show that jag1 be require by the sensory precursor , progenitor cell that give rise to both the hair cell and the support cell .
by understand how the sensory area develop normally , it be hop that molecular tool can be develop that will aid sensory regeneration in the mammalian inner ear .
introduction
the mammalian inner ear be a complex structure consist of a coil cochlea , three orthogonally position semicircular canal , a central vestibule , and a dorsally project endolymphatic duct and sac .
with the exception of the endolymphatic duct and sac , the different part of the ear all contain sensory organ populate by sensory hair cell and their associate support cell .
there be three different category of sensory organ : cristae , locate at the base of each semicircular canal ; macula , house within the central vestibule ; and the organ of corti , which line the cochlear duct .
only one sensory organ , the organ of corti , be require for hearing ; the other five organ be important for balance .
unfortunately , in mammal , if these region be damage due to an environmental or genetic insult , they can not regenerate , leave a permanent hearing and / or balance impairment .
although some progress have be make in understand how the individual cell type within the sensory area of the ear be form [ 1 , 2 ] , little be know about the molecular mechanism that establish the prosensory lineage and how the different sensory organ type be form .
interestingly , the molecular mechanism that underlie sensory differentiation in the vertebrate inner ear demonstrate strong parallel with drosophila sense organ development [ 3 – 5 ] .
for example , during drosophila external sense organ development , lateral inhibition mediate by notch signaling be require to restrict the adoption of the sensory organ precursor cell fate , which then give rise to the entire sensory organ [ 6 – 8 ] .
similarly , in the vertebrate ear , lateral inhibition mediate by notch signaling appear to be important for restrict the number of cell that can adopt the hair cell fate [ 9 – 15 ] .
lineage analysis have also show that , at least in the chicken , hair cell and support cell arise from a common progenitor [ 16 ] , consistent with an equipotent epithelium that undergo lateral signaling to specify cell fate .
unlike in drosophila , which have a single notch receptor and two ligand ( delta and serrate / jagged ) , in mammal notch signaling pathway component include four receptor ( notch 1 – 4 ) and five ligand ( delta - like [ dll ] 1 , 3 , and 4 , and jagged [ jag ] 1 and 2 ; for review , see [ 8 , 17 – 19 ] ) .
in the mouse , both dll1 and jag2 be express in nascent hair cell [ 10 , 20 ] and act synergistically during lateral inhibition [ 15 ] .
both dll1 and jag2 appear to signal through the notch1 receptor [ 15 ] .
in drosophila , prosensory region that undergo lateral inhibition be first delineate by expression of member of the atonal or acheate - scute family of basic helix - loop - helix transcription factor .
further parallel with drosophila have arise with the finding that an atonal homolog , the math1 gene , be require for hair cell differentiation [ 21 – 23 ] .
however , the situation be not entirely similar to drosophila , a math1 do not appear to be require to establish the prosensory region [ 22 , 24 ] .
instead , it have turn out that another type of transcription factor , the hmg - box factor sox2 , be require for sensory organ formation in the inner ear [ 25 ] .
this finding do not demonstrate direct parallel with drosophila sense organ formation , since the drosophila sox2 homologs soxneuro and dicheate have no known role in peripheral sense organ formation .
instead , both gene play a role in the formation of neural progenitor cell in the central nervous system [ 26 , 27 ] .
consistent with a prosensory role , sox2 mark sensory progenitor early in development and act upstream of the math1 gene during sensory organ formation in the ear [ 25 ] .
interestingly , one of the notch ligand , jag1 , be express early in the prosensory region of the ear [ 4 , 20 ] , indicate that notch signaling also may play a role in early sensory organ formation .
consistent with this finding , mouse heterozygous for n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea - induce point mutation in the jag1 gene show mild sensory organ defect in the ear [ 28 , 29 ] .
unfortunately , embryo homozygous for available mutant allele of the jag1 gene do not survive past embryonic day ( e ) 11.5 due to vascular defect , preclude an analysis of their inner ear .
to circumvent this early lethality , we have create a conditional allele of the jag1 gene use cre / loxp technology .
use the foxg1 - cre mouse line to express cre recombinase in the early otocyst [ 30 , 31 ] , we have disrupt jag1 function in the ear and show that sensory formation in the inner ear be severely attenuate in these mutant .
analysis of the pattern of hair and support cell formation in the jag1 - conditional knockout ( cko ) inner ear suggest that few progenitor form in jag1 - cko inner ear .
this result be confirm by analysis of the prosensory marker sox2 and p27kip1 , which be down - regulate as early a e12.5 , indicate that the jag1 gene act early during sensory progenitor formation .
these data demonstrate an early role for notch signaling in establish the sensory progenitor of the inner ear .
result
creation of a conditional allele of the jag1 gene
we create an allele for conditional inactivation of jag1 function by flank the delta - serrate - lag2 ( dsl ) domain - encode exon ( exon 4 ) of the jag1 gene with loxp site ( figure 1 ) .
the dsl domain have be show to be the region of the dll and jag protein that interact with notch family receptor [ 32 , 33 ] ; therefore , remove this region of the gene should create a nonfunctional protein .
to demonstrate that this allele encode a nonfunctional protein , we cross jag1flox / + mouse to mouse express cre recombinase in the female germline under control of the zp3 promoter ( zp3 - cre mouse ) ; the zp3 - cre mouse strain have be show to express cre recombinase in the grow oocyte prior to the completion of the first meiotic division [ 34 ] .
female zp3 - cre / + ; jag1flox / + offspring be then cross to male b6 mouse to produce offspring that be heterozygous for the delete region of the floxed allele ( designate jag1del2 / + ; see material and method ) .
heterozygous jag1del2 / + mouse be intercrossed , and jag1del2 / jag1del2 homozygous offspring be analyze for defect between e9.5 and e11.5 .
jag1del2 / jag1del2 mutant embryo exhibit the same vascular phenotype we describe previously in embryo homozygous for a target jag1 null allele , jag1del1 [ 35 ] .
specifically , the jag1del2 / jag1del2 mutant embryo exhibit yolk sac vascular remodeling defect and cranial hemorrhaging , and often exhibit an enlarge pericardial sac ( figure 2a – 2d ) .
all jag1del2 / jag1del2 mutant embryo be necrotic by e11.5 , and most show vascular defect by e10.5 .
rt - pcr of cdna synthesize from the mutant embryo use primer that span the floxed exon 4 demonstrate that this region be delete , a expect ( figure 2e ) .
these data demonstrate that deletion of the jag1flox allele yield a nonfunctional jag1 mutant allele .
figure 1
construction of a conditional allele of the jag1 gene
( a ) schematic diagram show the strategy for generate jag1flox mouse .
the targeting vector be design to insert loxp site ( black arrowhead ) on either side of exon 4 , the dsl domain - encode exon ( white area in exon 4 ) .
the neomycin resistance cassette ( for positive selection ) be flank by frt site ( gray arrowhead ) so that it could later be remove by cross to flpe - express mouse .
a diphtheria toxin gene be include for negative selection .
dotted line depict the recombination event that occur when either the flpe or cre recombinases be present .
primer position for genotyping be show a small black arrow ( a , dslf ; b , j1loxr1 ; c , j1flpf1 ; see material and method for sequence ) .
dt , diphtheria toxin ; r , ecor1 ; x , xba1 .
( b ) southern blot analysis of ecori - digest dna from e cell use the external probe show in ( a ) .
left lane show the wild - type band ( 12.3 kb ) , and the center and right lane show correctly target e cell that have both a wild - type band and a small mutant band ( 9.4 kb ) .
figure 2
jag1del2 / jag1del2 embryo exhibit vascular defect and lethality consistent with loss of jag1 function
( a and b ) e10.5 embryo demonstrate the loss of large blood vessel ( white arrow in [ a ] ) in the jag1del2 / jag1del2 yolk sac ( b ) similar to other jag1 loss - of - function mutant .
( c and d ) e11 embryo demonstrate a small , necrotic jag1del2 / jag1del2 embryo ( d ) .
white arrow in ( d ) indicate an enlarge pericardial sac ( enlarge , inset ) , which be frequently observe in mutant exhibit cardiovascular defect .
rt - pcr result use primer that span exon 4 use rna extract from e10.5 control ( + ) and zp3 - cre delete embryo ( − ) ( e ) .
the upper band ( 541 bp ) indicate that the wild - type allele be present .
the low band ( 286 bp ) indicate the jag1del2 mutant allele that do not contain exon 4 .
inactivation of jag1 function within the ear
to disrupt jag1 function within the inner ear , we cross jag1flox / jag1flox mouse with mouse doubly heterozygous for the foxg1 - cre allele ( these mouse express cre recombinase throughout the otocyst , as well a forebrain , eye , and foregut ) [ 30 ] and the jag1del1 allele [ 35 ] .
offspring with the genotype foxg1 - cre / + ; jag1del1 / jag1flox ( hereafter designate jag1 - cko ) survive through e18.5 and be analyze for inner ear defect .
we examine the pattern of cre - mediate excision in jag1 - cko embryo at e10.5 and in cochlea at e16.5 – e18.5 by in situ hybridization use a probe that specifically detect the delete exon 4 ( figure 3 ) .
these result show that expression in the otocyst be weak or absent by e10.5 ( figure 3b ) .
in addition , analysis of cochlear expression at late stage show no expression at e16.5 ( figure 3f ) and e18.5 ( unpublished data ) .
these data indicate that , a previously show for conditional deletion of a fibroblast growth factor receptor 1 ( fgfr1 ) floxed allele [ 31 ] , the foxg1 - cre line efficiently delete the jag1flox allele early during inner ear development .
figure 3
conditional jag1 inactivation use the foxg1 - cre line
( a – d ) low - and high - power view of e10 embryo process for whole - mount in situ hybridization use a jag1 exon 4 - specific probe .
white arrow ( a ) point to the jag1 signal in the otocyst ( left arrow ) and the eye ( right arrow ) , two structure where cre recombinase be express .
in jag1 - cko mutant at e10 , this signal be either absent or extremely weak .
black arrow ( a and b ) point to expression in the spinal cord and nephric duct , region where cre recombinase expression have not be report in foxg1 - cre mouse .
however , expression be consistently weak in these area in jag1 - cko embryo , indicate that there may be low level of widespread expression of cre recombinase in jag1 - cko embryo .
in ( d ) , the otocyst and the eye be outline by a dotted line .
very little expression be observe in these region , consistent with foxg1 - cre expression .
( e and f ) in situ hybridization of e16.5 cochlea demonstrate jag1 expression in wild - type ( e ) and jag1 - cko cochlea ( f ) , where expression be entirely absent .
scale bar = 500 μm .
malformation of the inner ear in jag1 - cko mutant
to examine the morphology of the jag1 - cko inner ear , paintfilling of the inner ear of mutant and control be perform at e15.5 ( figure 4 ) .
result of this analysis show a severe disruption in the structure of the jag1 - cko inner ear compare to their littermate control ( figure 4c and 4d ) .
specifically , the semicircular canal be largely absent , with the exception of a portion of the anterior and lateral semicircular canal .
in addition , the utricle appear small , the saccule be misshapen , and the cochlea be undercoiled .
in contrast , the part of the inner ear that be not associate with sensory formation , include the endolymphatic duct and sac and the common crus , appear relatively unaffected .
figure 4
inner ear dysmorphology in jag1 + / − and jag1 - cko embryo
e15.5 inner ear that have be paintfilled to display their overall morphology .
( a ) wild - type inner ear show normal morphology .
structure be label a follow : aa , anterior ampulla ; asc , anterior semicircular canal ; cd , cochlea duct ; ed , endolymphatic duct ; la , lateral ampulla ; lsc , lateral semicircular canal ; pa , posterior ampulla ; psc , posterior semicircular canal ; sac , saccule ; ut , utricle .
( b ) jag1 heterozygote inner ear ( either jag1del1 / + or foxg1 - cre / + ; jag1flox / + ) display truncate posterior semicircular canal and miss ampulla ( asterisk ) .
arrow point to the anterior and posterior ampulla , which be small compare to the wild - type control ( a ) .
( c and d ) a much more severe phenotype be observe in jag1 - cko animal .
there be no ampulla and little semicircular canal development ; an asterisk indicate a remnant of the anterior canal .
in ( d ) , there be also a remnant of the lateral canal ( arrow ) .
the utricle and saccule be small and the cochlea be short and undercoiled .
scale bar = 500μm .
sensory defect in jag1 - cko mutant inner ear
since the jag1 gene be express in the sensory area of the ear , and because the structural malformation observe in jag1 - cko mutant inner ear appear to primarily affect region of the ear that contain sensory organ , we examine the sensory region of the ear for defect .
we examine the organ of corti , the sensory organ of the cochlea , at e18.5 by scan electron microscopy ( sem ) ( figure 5 ) .
by this stage , all hair cell within the organ of corti have exit the cell cycle , and most be well - differentiated although not fully mature [ 36 ] .
severe hair cell patterning defect be apparent by sem within the jag1 - cko mutant cochlea .
this phenotype be most striking in the basal turn of the cochlea , where no hair cell formation be observe ( figure 5d ) .
in the midbasal region of the organ of corti , hair cell form in patch , within which there be no clear formation of row or distinction between inner and out hair cell ( figure 5f ) .
more apically , hair cell appear more continuous along the organ of corti ( figure 5h ) .
however , although hair cell be present in the apical region , their number be clearly reduce ; rather than the normal , perfectly order four row of hair cell , there be only two row of loosely arrange hair cell of indistinct type .
figure 5
hair cell patterning defect in the cochlea
scan electron micrographs demonstrate the different pattern of hair cell production along the length of the cochlea in jag1 - cko embryo .
( a – d ) low - power view of the apical and basal cochlear turn .
the box - in area along the base in ( a ) and ( b ) be show at high magnification in ( c ) and ( d ) .
note the absence of hair cell in the base of the jag1 - cko cochlea , except for a small patch of cell in the more apical portion ( arrow ) .
scale bar = 500 μm .
( e and f ) in the midbasal region , more hair cell be observe , but they be arrange in patch , with no clear distinction between inner and out hair cell .
( g and h ) in the apical turn , hair cell be continuous but generally arrange in only two row .
scale bar = 100 μm .
abnormal hair and support cell pattern in jag1 - cko inner ear
to determine which sensory cell type be differentiate in the jag1 - cko mutant cochlea , specific marker be use to identify hair cell and support cell subtypes throughout the ear ( figure 6 ) .
in the cochlea , we use an antibody against myo7a to label all hair cell and an antibody against s100a1 to label inner hair cell , deiter 's support cell , and inner phalangeal support cell [ 24 ] .
when both marker be use in combination , inner hair cell , out hair cell , and some support cell type could be distinguish ( figure 6a – 6f ) .
this analysis show that in the apex of the cochlea , inner hair cell be present and usually form a doublet ( figure 6b ) .
their associate supporting cell , the inner phalangeal cell , be also present .
out hair cell and their associate supporting cell , the deiter 's cell , be not present in this region .
in the middle portion of the cochlea , both inner and occasionally out hair cell be present , although their patterning be clearly abnormal ( figure 6d ) .
in addition , the tunnel of corti be not apparent , and there be often doublet of inner hair cell and increase number of out hair cell row without accompany deiter 's support cell .
a show by sem , both hair cell and support cell be absent in the very basal region of the cochlea ( figure 6f ) .
figure 6
hair and support cell marker demonstrate sensory area be reduced or absent in the jag1 - cko inner ear
immunocytochemistry use two marker , myosin viia ( red ; all hair cell ) and s100a ( green ; inner hair cell , dieter 's cell , and inner phalangeal cell ) demonstrate pattern of hair and support cell production at e18.5 in control and jag1 - cko inner ear .
( a – f ) section through the indicate turn of the cochlea .
note the different hair cell pattern in the apical , middle and basal turn of the jag1 - cko cochlea .
normal morphology be show ( a ) along with label structure , a follow : ger , great epithelial ridge ; ihcs , inner hair cell ( color - cod yellow ) ; ler , less epithelial ridge ; ohcs , out hair cell ( color - cod red ) ; sc , support cell ( color - cod green ) .
( g – j ) pattern of hair and support cell production in the vestibular system .
the utricular macula be extremely small with very few hair cell ( h ) while the saccule ( j ) show robust hair and support cell production although the shape of the organ be small and malformed .
use the same marker we also examine the vestibular sensory organ in jag1 - cko mutant inner ear ( figure 6g – 6j ) .
consistent with the lack of semicircular canal and ampulla formation observe by paintfilling , there be no evidence of crista formation .
the jag1 - cko utricular macula be extremely small with very few differentiate hair cell ( figure 6h ) .
surprisingly , the saccule and it macula be only mildly affect in the jag1 - cko inner ear ( figure 6j ) .
hair cell differentiation appear relatively unaffected , although the entire saccular structure be shape differently than in the control , a feature that be also observe in the paintfilled specimen ( see figure 4c and 4d ) .
these data show that all sensory organ within the inner ear be affect to vary degree in jag1 - cko inner ear .
however , some sensory organ , such a the cristae , appear to be more sensitive to the loss of jag1 function .
to examine whether aberrant hair cell patterning in jag1 - cko cochlea be due to defect in hair cell formation or in subsequent differentiation , we examine hair cell patterning at an early stage ( e16.5 ) .
use a lectin that bind to hair cell stereocilia , we examine whether the pattern of hair cell formation at e16.5 look similar to the pattern at e18.5 ( figure 7 ) .
at e16.5 in wild - type cochlea , a gradient of hair cell differentiation be evident ( figure 7a , 7c , 7e , and 7g ) ; in the basal region both inner and out hair cell could be recognize ( unpublished data ) , while in the middle region only inner hair cell be clearly detect by most marker ( figure 7a and 7c ) .
in the more apical region , little to no hair cell differentiation have take place by this stage ( figure 7e and 7g ) .
in jag1 - cko cochlea , the pattern look similar to those at e18.5 , with patch of hair cell in the midbasal region ( figure 7b and 7d ) and a complete absence of hair cell in the very basal region ( figure 7b ) .
these data suggest that the jag1 - cko mutant have defect in hair cell formation rather than differentiation .
in addition , the apical region in the jag1 - cko cochlea do not appear more differentiate than the control ( figure 7e – 7h ) , argue against precocious differentiation a an explanation for the reduce number of hair cell observe in the mutant cochlea .
figure 7
early analysis of the pattern of differentiation in the jag1 - cko cochlea indicate the defect be cause by a failure in the formation of sensory cell and not subsequent degeneration
lectin staining of whole - mount cochlea at e16.5 .
( a ) normal patterning in wild - type control cochlea .
ger , great epithelial ridge .
( b ) both the basal and middle portion of the cochlea be show , although because it be much longer in the control ( a ) , the very basal portion of the cochlea have be remove .
note the lack of hair cell in the basal portion of the jag1 - cko cochlea .
( c – h ) box - in area of ( a ) and ( b ) be show at high magnification in ( c ) and ( d ) .
arrow in ( d ) indicate the abnormal patch of hair cell also observe at e18.5 .
similarly , the box - in region of ( e ) and ( f ) be show at high magnification in ( g ) and ( h ) , demonstrate the few hair cell that be just begin to differentiate in this region in both the control and the mutant ( arrowhead ) .
scale bar = 500 μm for the correspond panel .
disrupt prosensory development in jag1 - cko inner ear
to determine how the jag1 ligand function during sensory development , we use several marker of the prosensory domain , include p27kip1 and sox2 , and examine their expression pattern in both wild - type and jag1 - cko mutant cochlea ( figure 8 ) .
at e14.5 , the majority of hair cell and support cell in the organ of corti have complete their final division , and hair cell be begin to differentiate in the basal portion of the cochlea [ 36 ] .
p27kip1 , a cell - cycle inhibitor , be require for the cochlear sensory progenitor to exit the cell cycle on time , and be an establish marker of the prosensory domain in the cochlea [ 22 , 37 ] .
p27kip1 begin to be express in a discrete domain within the cochlea a the hair cell and support cell exit the cell cycle around e13.5 to e14.5 ( figure 8a , 8b , 8d , and 8e ) .
recently it have be show that the sry - relate transcription factor sox2 be require for establishment of the prosensory region in the inner ear [ 25 ] .
use fluorescence immunocytochemistry double labeling , we examine the relationship between these marker and jag1 protein expression in both wild - type and jag1 - cko cochlea .
a previously report [ 22 ] , jag1 be not express within the prosensory domain a assess by p27kip1 expression at e14.5 , but instead be express immediately adjacent ( possibly with some slight overlap ) in the inner ( neural ) portion of cochlea ( kölliker 's organ ; figure 8a and 8d ) .
in contrast , sox2 do show a largely overlap domain with p27kip1 ( figure 8b and 8e ) , a originally describe [ 25 ] .
however , the sox2 expression domain be slightly large than the p27kip1 domain , extend into kölliker 's organ and overlap with the jag1 domain .
despite the fact that jag1 be not express within the prosensory domain at e14.5 , both p27kip1 and sox2 expression be absent in the basal region of the cochlea ( figure 8c ) , indicate that prosensory formation be already disrupt in these ear .
in the apex , weak expression of both marker be observe ( figure 8f ) , consistent with the fact that some sensory differentiation occur in this region of the jag1 - cko cochlea .
figure 8
at e14.5 jag1 be express directly adjacent to the prosensory domain that be disrupt in jag1 - cko inner ear
immunocytochemistry at e14.5 use two marker of the prosensory domain , sox2 and p27kip1 , in combination with jag1 in both the basal and apical turn of the cochlea .
note that the jag1 domain ( red ) do not overlap the p27kip1 domain ( green ) ( a and d ) , whereas the sox2 domain do largely overlap with p27kip1 ( yellow ) ( b and e ) .
both sox2 and p27kip1 be down - regulate in the jag1 - cko cochlea ( c and f ) , although there be weak expression of both marker in the apex ( f ) .
ger , great epithelial ridge ; ler , less epithelial ridge .
in order to determine if jag1 be ever express in the prosensory region of the cochlea , we examine an early age ( e12.5 ) and compare the jag1 domain to the sox2 domain ( since p27kip1 be not express in the inner ear prior to e13.5 to e14.5 ) .
adjacent section from both wild - type and jag1 - cko cochlea be immunostained to detect either jag1 or sox2 protein ( figure 9 ) .
this analysis show that in the basal region of the wild - type cochlea , where sensory progenitor be still divide , jag1 expression do overlap with the sox2 domain ( figure 9a and 9b ) , indicate that jag1 be initially express within the prosensory domain .
however , in the apical region , where the sensory precursor have cease divide , expression of jag1 and sox2 do not overlap ( figure 9d and 9e ) .
in the jag1 - cko cochlea , sox2 be absent from the basal region and significantly down - regulate in the apical region ( figure 9c and 9f ) .
these data demonstrate that jag1 be express within the prosensory domain of the cochlea at early stage , and that , in the absence of jag1 function , sensory formation be disrupt prior to cell cycle exit and differentiation of sensory hair cell and nonsensory support cell .
figure 9
at e12.5 jag1 be express within the prosensory domain and sox2 expression be down - regulate within this domain in jag1 - cko cochlea
( a , b , d , and e ) alternate section from a control embryo process for immunocytochemistry use antibody against either jag1 or sox2 .
note the similar domain occupy by both jag1 and sox2 in the base of the cochlea ( a and b ; bracket ) .
in the apical region , the two protein be not colocalized ( d and e ) .
sox2 be not express in the basal portion of the jag1 - cko cochlea ( c ) and show only weak expression in the apex ( f ) .
bv , blood vessel ; cd , cochlear duct .
we also compare jag1 and sox2 expression in the vestibular region of the inner ear in both wild - type and jag1 - cko mutant embryo .
jag1 and sox2 exhibit largely overlap expression domain that correspond to the location of the five sensory organ in the vestibular portion of the ear ( figure 10 ) .
the two expression domain only differ significantly in the anterior and posterior cristae , where jag1 expression have a negative patch in the middle of it expression domain , whereas sox2 expression do not show this same patch ( figure 10a , 10b , 10g , and 10h ) .
the jag1 - negative region may correspond to the eminentia cruciatum , a nonsensory region present in the middle of both the anterior and posterior cristae , although it be not clear why sox2 would be express there .
in the jag1 - cko vestibular sensory patch , sox2 expression be consistent with the pattern of sensory differentiation observe at e18.5 .
for example , the jag1 - cko saccule display fairly normal sox2 expression ( figure 10c ) , consistent with the almost normal development of the saccular macula .
in contrast , sox2 expression in the utricle be very weak and the expression domain be much small than in control ( figure 10f ) , consistent with the severe disruption of differentiation of the utricular macula in jag1 - cko inner ear .
there be no sox2 expression in the jag1 - cko cristae , and in fact the entire ampulla appear to be miss or severely disrupt even at this early stage ( figure 10c and 10i ; dotted line region ) , consistent with the lack of cristae and ampulla observe at late stage .
figure 10
jag1 and sox2 mark the prosensory region of the vestibule , and sox2 expression correlate with impair sensory formation in the jag1 - cko vestibule
( a and b , d and e , g and h ) alternate section demonstrate either jag1 or sox2 expression in the vestibular region of control inner ear .
( c , f , i ) similar section through the jag1 - cko inner ear demonstrate sox2 expression .
dotted line indicate region where the cristae and ampulla be missing in the jag1 - cko inner ear .
ac , anterior cristae ; lc , lateral cristae ; pc , posterior cristae ; sac , saccular macula ; ut , utricular macula .
discussion
we have demonstrate that notch signaling , mediate by the jag1 ligand , be require early in development for the formation of the sensory region of the ear .
by compare expression of jag1 to two marker of the prosensory domain , sox2 and p27kip1 , we have show that jag1 mark all prosensory region of the ear from early time point ( e12.5 ) , but become down - regulate in the organ of corti by e14.5 , when the sensory progenitor exit the cell cycle and begin differentiate into hair cell and support cell .
both sox2 and p27kip1 be down - regulate in the affect prosensory region of the jag1 - cko inner ear , demonstrate that jag1 be necessary for the development of early sensory progenitor in the inner ear .
distinctive pattern of hair cell formation in jag1 - cko inner ear suggest progenitor cell number be reduce
one intriguing result from our study be that the six sensory region be not equally affect by the loss of jag1 function .
for example , in the jag1 - cko vestibular system , the cristae be lack altogether , and only a small number of hair cell differentiate in the utricular macula .
in contrast , the saccular macula exhibit little disturbance in hair cell formation , although the overall shape of the organ be abnormal .
in the jag1 - cko cochlea , hair cell differentiation pattern vary base on their apical or basal location .
for example , in the apical region of the cochlea only inner hair cell form , and these be often arrange in multiple row rather than the normal single row .
in the middle and midbasal turn of the cochlea , patch of hair cell with nonsensory intervening region be frequently observe .
within these patch , out hair cell be sometimes present , although the patterning be abnormal and s100a1 - label dieter 's cell be not present .
in the very basal region of the cochlea , neither hair cell nor support cell be present .
the patch of hair cell find in the basal region of the cochlea and the differential effect of the mutation on the basal and apical portion of the cochlea be particularly interesting , a similar defect have be find in at least two other mouse mutant of gene know to play a role in the generation of the sensory precursor of the ear .
for example , both a hypomorphic allele and a conditionally delete allele of the fgfr1 gene exhibit patch of hair cell in portion of the cochlea [ 31 ] .
similar to the jag1 - cko phenotype , these patch in the fgfr1 conditional mutant contain mostly inner hair cell that be often arrange in multiple row , with very few out hair cell .
unlike the jag1 - cko phenotype , fgfr1 function be require only in the cochlea .
another mouse mutant , a hypomorphic allele of the sox2 gene ( yellow submarine ; sox2ysb ) , also display patch of hair cell in the basal portion of the cochlea and a mild phenotype in the apical region of the cochlea [ 25 ] .
more similar to the jag1 - cko phenotype , sox2 be require for both the cochlear and vestibular sensory region [ 25 ] .
the finding that primarily inner hair cell differentiate in these mutant cochlea may be due to the fact that inner hair cell be the first to differentiate [ 10 , 37 ] , suggest that if there be reduce number of progenitor cell , they would likely differentiate a inner rather than out hair cell .
similarly , the mild phenotype in the apical region of these mutant may be due to the fact that cell exit the cell cycle earliest in the apex [ 36 ] .
this may mean that , if there be reduce number of progenitor cell , they would reside in the apical rather than the basal portion of the cochlea .
the multiple row of inner hair cell observe in jag1 - cko and other mutant could be explain by a number of different scenario .
one possibility be that the multiple row be not a result of actual increase in inner hair cell number , but rather be cause by defect in their eventual arrangement due to the short jag1 - cko cochlea .
recent study of mouse mutant with defect in planar cell polarity and convergent extension ( a term refer to the intercalation of cell , lead to growth of tissue in one dimension in the absence of proliferation ) indicate that multiple row of hair cell can be obtain in this way and be frequently observe in the apical region of the cochlea [ 38 – 41 ] .
an alternative possibility be that the multiple row be a result of a second , late function of the jag1 ligand , distinct from it prosensory role describe here .
a third possibility be that the down - regulation of p27kip1 , a protein that inhibit continue proliferation of the precursor cell in the cochlea , lead to continue cell division of the remain sensory progenitor , ultimately result in excess number of inner hair cell in the region where they form .
take together , these data suggest that sensory progenitor be reduce in the jag1 - cko inner ear and that notch signaling , fibroblast growth factor signaling , and the transcription factor sox2 all act in either common or parallel pathway involve in the production of sensory progenitor in the inner ear .
a prosensory role for notch in the ear
an examination of early prosensory marker , include p27kip1 and sox2 , demonstrate that prosensory establishment be disrupt in jag1 - cko inner ear , consistent with the suggestion that progenitor be reduce in these mutant .
our data show that jag1 play an early prosensory role in ear development , quite unlike the role play later during development by the other notch ligand , dll1 and jag2 , which be involve in lateral signaling and differentiation [ 10 , 15 ] .
these data be consistent with an early role for notch signaling in progenitor cell maintenance in the inner ear .
in a number of other system , include the nervous system and more recently in the intestinal epithelium , it have be demonstrate that notch signaling be involve in maintain cell in an undifferentiated state [ 42 – 46 ] .
in the mammalian nervous system it have be show that loss of notch signaling lead to premature differentiation and a reduction in the progenitor pool [ 42 ] .
consistent with these finding , in vitro study have demonstrate that the frequency of neurosphere production be reduce in notch signaling mutant [ 47 , 48 ] , indicate a loss of stem cell potential .
moreover , study have also show that notch signaling promote radial glial identity , a cell type that have be show to act a a progenitor cell in the central nervous system [ 49 – 52 ] .
our result suggest that , similar to the nervous system , notch signaling via jag1 be important for sensory precursor formation or maintenance in the inner ear .
however , unlike the nervous system , we see no evidence for precocious differentiation , suggest instead that jag1 may affect the specification , survival , or proliferative capacity of the sensory precursor .
recent evidence from the chick indicate that jag1 may be important for the initial sensory specification event .
by express a constitutively active form of notch ( notch1 - icd ) , daudet et al. [ 14 ] demonstrate that ectopic sensory patch could be induce , indicate that early notch signaling may be important for the induction of sensory area , and not just for their maintenance .
however , it should be note that ectopic sensory area form only in certain area of the ear , indicate that some sensory competence be require for this effect .
a similar result be obtain by overexpressing an activate form of β - catenin , an essential component of the canonical wnt signaling pathway , in the chicken inner ear [ 53 ] .
a in the notch1 - icd study , ectopic sensory region be obtain , but again , only in certain region of the ear .
however , unlike the notch gain - of - function study , overexpression of β - catenin also lead to a change in sensory region character ( i.e. , cochlear to vestibular ) , indicate that wnt signaling govern not only whether a sensory region will form but also the type of sensory region that will form .
in drosophila , interaction between notch and wingless , a member of the wnt family of signaling molecule , be well establish [ 54 , 55 ] , and evidence of an interaction have begin accumulate in vertebrate as well [ 45 , 56 , 57 ] .
bone morphogenetic protein ( bmp ) signaling may also be important for sensory formation , particularly for the sensory cristae , a bmp4 have be show to mark the mouse cristae from very early in development [ 58 ] .
experiment in the chicken have show that block bmp signaling sometimes lead to disturbance in sensory development [ 59 ] .
take together , these data indicate that , base on expression pattern , previous study , and the evidence present here , jag1 be the ligand responsible for the prosensory function of the notch pathway in the ear .
furthermore , the notch pathway likely interact with other signaling pathway such a the wnt , fgf , and bmp pathway to create sensory organ of the proper size , organization and character .
sensory formation still occur in jag1 - cko inner ear
one somewhat puzzling question be that , if jag1 be important for sensory progenitor development , why do any sensory formation occur in jag1 - cko inner ear ?
one possibility be that another notch ligand be compensate for the loss of jag1 function .
this explanation seem unlikely since none of the other notch ligand show a similar expression pattern to jag1 in the ear .
for example , both the dll1 and jag2 gene be express in nascent hair cell after they exit the cell cycle and begin differentiate .
however , in addition to hair cell expression , there be also early expression of the dll1 gene in the anteroventral portion of the otocyst at about e10.5 [ 4 , 20 ] , that likely overlap with at least part of the jag1 domain ( see figure 2 ) [ 60 ] .
this expression domain have previously be think to be relate to the formation of the neuroblast that delaminate from the otic epithelium and later differentiate into the neuron that will innervate the hair cell [ 4 ] .
it have be show in zebrafish that correct neuroblast formation require notch - mediate lateral signaling [ 9 ] ; however , in mammal it have not be show definitively that this be the role that the dll1 gene play at early stage .
this leave open the possibility that this early domain of dll1 expression may be at least partially involve in prosensory specification , similar to the jag1 expression domain .
nonsensory defect in jag1 - cko inner ear
in addition to the defect in sensory formation in the jag1 - cko inner ear , the mutant inner ear also exhibit nonsensory defect .
specifically , the semicircular canal be largely absent , with the exception of portion of the anterior and lateral canal .
in addition , all three ampulla be absent , the utricle be small , and the cochlea be undercoiled .
base on recent study , it be likely that these defect be secondary to the sensory defect .
for example , it have be show that fgfs express in the sensory cristae promote semicircular canal formation through up - regulation of bmp2 [ 61 ] .
thus , loss of the cristae would be expect to have a severe affect on canal formation .
emerge evidence from mouse mutant have demonstrate that gene involve in sensory formation result in severely malformed inner ear .
for example , mutation in the sox2 gene lead to malformation very similar to those describe here in jag1 - cko mutant .
the inner ear of embryo homozygous for two different mutant allele of sox2 , sox2lcc / lcc and sox2ysb / ysb , show disrupt canal formation ; small utricular and saccular compartment ; and thin , undercoiled cochlea [ 25 ] .
in addition , fgf10 mouse knockout also show disrupt cristae development associate with loss of canal structure [ 62 ] .
however , unlike the canal structure , cochlear formation do not appear to be strictly dependent on development of the organ of corti , a a cochlea , albeit short and thin , will form in the absence of any sensory formation [ 25 ] .
however , normal cochlear length appear to be dependent on sensory formation , at least partially through convergent extension .
recently , a number of gene have be find in the cochlea that lead to defect in planar cell polarity as well a a shorten cochlea , presumably because of defect in convergent extension [ 38 , 41 ] .
therefore it be likely that the shorten cochlea observe in jag1 - cko mutant be at least partially a result of failure of convergent extension cause by a reduction in the number of sensory precursor .
the data present here demonstrate that the jag1 gene be require for sensory precursor development in the inner ear .
further study be require to establish the exact role that jag1 - mediate notch signaling play in early sensory progenitor , and also it relationship to the role play by fgf signaling and sox2 expression .
understand how the sensory precursor form be an important prerequisite for regeneration study that may provide molecular tool to treat hearing loss and vestibular disorder [ 63 ] .
material and method
construction of the jag1floxneo allele .
to construct the jag1floxneo allele , bacterial artificial chromosome clone contain the jag1 genomic locus be isolate from a rpci - 22 ( 129s6 / svevtac ) mouse bacterial artificial chromosome library ( filter obtain from research genetics ) by hybridization to a 1.8 - kb mouse jag1 cdna probe .
to make the short 5 ′ homology region of the targeting vector , a 2.2 - kb kpni fragment upstream of exon 4 be isolate , blunt - end , and subcloned into the smai site of a modify pb vector that contain a loxp - frt - pgkneo - frt cassette .
a 1.5 - kb kpni fragment that contain exon 4 be also subcloned into the loxp - frt - pgkneo - frt cassette .
to construct the long 3 ′ homology region , a 3.5 - kb kpni - smai fragment contain exon 5 be blunt - end and subcloned into the ecorv site of another modify pb vector that contain a single loxp site .
a 3.5 - kb smai - sali fragment from this construct be then clone into the smai - xhoi site of a pko 905 vector contain a diphtheria toxin gene for negative selection .
a 5.7 - kb sali - noti fragment from the loxp - frt - pgkneo - frt construct be then clone into the sali - noti site of the pko 905 vector contain the 3 ′ homology region to generate the final jag1floxneo targeting vector ( see figure 1 ) .
generation of jag1flox mouse .
the jag1floxneo targeting construct be linearize with not1 and electroporated into cj7 embryonic stem ( e ) cell , a describe previously [ 64 ] .
dna from 288 e cell clone be screen by pcr use an internal / external primer set , and positive clone be then confirm by southern blot by probe ecori - digest dna with an external 1.7 - kb stu1 - ecori fragment locate 3 ′ to the targeting construct ( see figure 1 ) .
this probe also detect partial recombination event in which the distal loxp site be lose ; in these case a slightly large fragment ( 11 kb rather than 9.3 kb ) be obtain ( see figure 1a ) .
the presence of the distal loxp site be far confirm by pcr use primer that flank the loxp site ( dslf and j1loxr1 ; see below for sequence ) .
correctly target clone be inject into c57bl / 6j ( b6 ) blastocyst , and chimeric mouse be obtain .
chimeric male mouse be mat to b6 female and the agouti progeny be assay for the presence of the jag1floxneo allele by pcr use jag1floxneo specific primer .
jag1floxneo / + mouse be intercrossed to create homozygous jag1floxneo / jag1floxneo offspring .
homozygous jag1floxneo / jag1floxneo mouse appear normal and healthy , suggest that the neomycin resistance cassette ( pgkneo ) do not adversely affect jag1 expression .
to control for any possible effect from the presence of the pgkneo cassette , the frt - flank pgkneo cassette be delete by mat jag1floxneo mouse to flpe - recombinase express mouse ( gt [ rosa ] 26sor tm1 ( flp1 ) dym ; jackson laboratory , bar harbor , maine , united state ) to produce jag1flox mouse .
both jag1floxneo and jag1flox mouse be use in these experiment , and no difference in the result phenotype be observe .
to differentiate the delete form of this allele from our previously report jag1 null mutant allele ( jag1del1 ) [ 35 ] , we designate the jag1 allele generate by cre recombinase - mediate deletion of the jag1flox or jag1floxneo allele the jag1del2 allele .
mouse husbandry and genotyping .
foxg1 - cre mouse ( [ 30 ] ; gift of rob burgess ) be maintain on an outbred swiss webster background .
zp3 - cre mouse ( [ 34 ] ; gift of mimi de vries and barbara knowles ) be maintain on a b6 background .
typically , male that be heterozygous for both a foxg1 - cre allele and our previously construct jag1 null allele ( jag1del1 ) [ 35 ] ( maintain on a b6 background ) , be cross to jag1flox / jag1flox female that be maintain on a b6 / 129 background .
mouse of the genotype foxg1 - cre / + ; jag1del1 / jag1flox and foxg1 - cre / + ; jag1del1 / jag1floxneo be use interchangeably , and be designate a jag1 - cko mouse in this report .
to genotype the jag1flox mouse , the primer use be : dslf , 5 ′ - tcaggcatgataaaccctagc - 3 ′ ( forward ) and j1loxr1 , 5 ′ - ctacatacagcatctacatgc - 3 ′ ( reverse ) ; these primer flank the 5 ′ loxp site .
to genotype for cre - mediate recombination , a primer upstream of the 3 ′ loxp site be use : j1flpf1 , 5 ′ - caggttgagtgctgacttag - 3 ′ , along with the j1loxr1 reverse primer .
to genotype for the foxg1 - cre and zp3 - cre allele , cre - specific primer be use : cre1 , 5 ′ - tgatgaggttcgcaagaacc - 3 ′ ( forward ) and cre2 , 5 ′ - ccatgagtgaacgaacctgg - 3 ′ ( reverse ) .
jag1del1 primer be a follow for the mutant : jgko1 , 5 ′ - tctcactcaggcatgataaacc - 3 ′ ( forward ) and sol1 , 5 ′ - tggatgtggaatgtgtgcgag - 3 ′ ( reverse ) .
a different reverse primer , jgko2 , 5 ′ - taacggggactccgg acaggg - 3 ′ be use to detect the wild - type allele .
littermates ( wild type , jag1del1 / + or jag1flox / + ) be use a control for all experiment .
paintfilling and scan electron microscopy .
the paintfilling of the jag1 - cko inner ear be perform at e15.5 .
the technique be perform a previously describe [ 28 ] .
inner ear be prepare for sem a describe previously use a version of the osmium tetroxide - thiocarbohydrazide method [ 65 ] .
specimen be examine with a hitachi 3000n scan electron microscope ( hitachi , tokyo , japan ) .
immunohistochemistry and lectin staining .
for immunohistochemistry , embryonic head be bisect and fix for 1 – 2 h in 4 % paraformaldehyde in pb .
half head be embed in paraffin wax , and immunocytochemistry be perform on standard 7 - micron section .
antibody use include anti-myo7a ( 1 : 1,000 ; gift of a. el - amraoui and c. petit ) , anti-p27kip1 ( 1 : 100 ; neomarkers , stratech , soham , cambridgeshire , united kingdom ) , anti-sox2 ( 1 : 2,000 ; chemicon , temecula , california , united state ; ab5603 ) , anti-jag1 ( 1 : 100 ; santa cruz biotechnology , santa cruz , california , united state ; h - 114 ) and anti-s100a1 ( 1 : 50 ; dako , glostrup , denmark ) .
for all antibody use , an antigen retrieval step be perform by boil the section for 10 min in 10 mm citric acid .
secondary antibody use be either alexa - fluor 488 or 546 goat anti-mouse or rabbit ( 1 : 400 ; invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
slide be coverslipped in vectashield hardset mounting medium with dapi ( vector laboratory , burlingame , california , united state ) .
lectin staining be perform use the griffonia simplifonia i lectin ( vector laboratory ) essentially a describe [ 15 ] .
in situ hybridization and rt - pcr .
since the jag1del2 mutant allele create an in - frame deletion of the dsl domain , an in situ probe be design for detection of the floxed region of the jag1flox allele by in situ hybridization .
the probe be create by amplify a 433 - bp product encompass exon 4 ( primer : j1 - 420f , 5 ′ - cgaccgtaatcgcatcgtac - 3 ′ and j1 - 853r , 5 ′ - atgcacttgtcgcagtacag - 3 ′ ) and subcloning the product into the pcr ii vector ( invitrogen ) .
for whole - mount embryo in situ , embryo be fix overnight in 4 % paraformaldehyde .
in situ hybridization be perform essentially a describe [ 66 ] .
for cochlear in situ , inner ear be dissect from the head and fix overnight in 4 % paraformaldehyde .
after wash in pb , the bony shell and stria be remove from the cochlea and the sample be dehydrate in methanol .
in situ hybridization be perform a describe [ 67 ] , with the exception of the posthybridization wash , which be do accord to [ 68 ] .
for rt - pcr , total rna be extract from the e10.5 control and jag1del2 / jag1del2 embryo , use an rnaeasy kit ( qiagen , valencia , california , united state ) and follow the manufacturer 's instruction .
first - strand cdna synthesis be perform use the amv reverse transcriptase ( promega , madison , wisconsin , united state ) with specific primer j1 - 961r ( 5 ′ - agtcccacagtaattcagatc - 3 ′ ) .
product be amplify from cdna use primer that flank exon 4 ( j1 - 420f , 5 ′ - cgaccgtaatcgcatcgtac - 3 ′ and j1 - 961r ) .
acknowledgement
we thank drs. a. el - amraoui , c. petit , r. burgess , m. de vries , and b. knowles for reagent ; peter finger of the jackson laboratory histopathology and microscopy service for help with the sem processing ; and the jackson laboratory cell biology and microinjection core facility for the blastocyst injection .
this work be support by grant from the national institute of health to aek ( dc05865 ) and tg ( ns036437 and dk066387 ) , and from the jackson laboratory ( ca034196 ) .
abbreviation
bmp - bone morphogenetic protein
cko - conditional knockout
dll - delta - like
dsl - delta - serrate - lag2
e [ number ] - embryonic day [ number ]
e - embryonic stem
fgf - fibroblast growth factor
jag - jagged
sem - scan electron microscopy
footnote
author contribution .
aek and tg conceive and design experiment .
aek and jx perform experiment .
all author analyze the data .
aek write the paper .
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
a previous version of this article appear a an early online release on december 1 , 2005 ( doi : 10.1371 / journal.pgen.0020004.eor ) .
citation : kiernan ae , xu j , gridley t ( 2006 ) the notch ligand jag1 be require for sensory progenitor development in the mammalian inner ear .
plo genet 2 ( 1 ) : e4 .
generation of mouse harbour a conditional loss - of - function allele of gata6
abstract
the zinc finger transcription factor gata6 be believe to have important role in the development of several organ include the liver , gastrointestinal tract and heart .
however , analysis of the contribution of gata6 toward organogenesis have be hamper because gata6 - / - mouse fail to develop beyond gastrulation due to defect in extraembryonic endoderm function .
we have therefore generate a mouse line harbour a conditional loss - of - function allele of gata6 use cre / loxp technology .
loxp element be introduce into intron flank exon 2 of the gata6 gene by homologous recombination in e cell .
mouse contain this alter allele be breed to homozygosity and be find to be viable and fertile .
to assess the functional integrity of the loxp site and to confirm that we have generate a gata6 loss - of - function allele , we breed gata6 ' floxed ' mouse to eiia - cre mouse in which cre be ubiquitously express , and to villin - cre mouse that express cre in the epithelial cell of the intestine .
we conclude that we have generate a line of mouse in which gata6 activity can be ablate in a cell type specific manner by expression of cre recombinase .
this line of mouse can be use to establish the role of gata6 in regulate embryonic development and various aspect of mammalian physiology .
background
the mouse gata6 gene encode a 45 kd protein contain two highly conserve zinc - finger dna binding domain with a cys - x2 - cys - x17 - cys - x2 - cys motif that direct binding to the nucleotide sequence element ( a / t ) gata ( a / g ) 1 .
gata 4 , 5 and 6 make up a subset of gata factor that have be implicate in the development of several organ include the heart , lung , gastrointestinal tract and liver [ 1 - 4 ] .
development of gata6 null embryo arrest during gastrulation a a consequence of defect in extraembryonic endoderm function [ 2 , 5 ] .
this early embryonic lethality can be rescue by complement the gata6 null embryo with a wild type extraembryonic visceral endoderm use tetraploid embryo complementation , and embryo derive by this process can survive until e10.5 [ 3 ] .
analysis of such gata6 - / - e cell - derive embryo have reveal defect in hepatogenesis , which support the proposal that gata6 be an important developmental regulator .
although the ability to generate embryo from gata6 - / - e cell by tetraploid embryo complementation have provide important insight into the contribution of gata6 during early embryogenesis , this approach be not compatible with study the role of gata6 at late stage in development or it role in control differentiation of specific cell type .
in the current report , we describe the generation of mouse contain a conditional null allele of gata6 that can be use for cell type - specific removal of gata6 by cre - mediate recombination .
result and discussion
to ensure the elimination of gata6 activity , we choose to flank gata6 exon 2 ( base on nomenclature describe by brewer et al [ 6 , 7 ] ) with loxp element because this exon encode the majority of the gata6 protein ( fig. 1a ) .
we decide to use a recombineering approach to facilitate the accurate placement of the loxp element follow the procedure describe by lee et al [ 8 ] .
the final targeting vector contain a loxp element locate between exon 2 and 3 .
in addition , a cassette contain a loxp element lie immediately 5 ' to a neomycin phosphotransferase ( neo ) gene , which confer resistance to g418 , be introduce between exon 1 and 2 ( fig. 1a ) .
frt site flank the neo gene , in order to allow removal of neo by flp recombinase .
two novel restriction endonuclease cleavage site ( ecori and paci ) be also introduce into the gata6 targeting vector to allow the identification of correctly modify gata6 allele by southern blot analysis .
the targeting vector be introduce into r1 e cell [ 9 ] by electroporation , and g418 - resistant e cell clone be test for homologous recombination at the gata6 locus by southern blot analysis .
fig. 1b show an example of a correctly target e ( gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) / + ) cell line .
follow digestion of e cell genomic dna with ecori , a probe that lie 3 ' to the short arm of homology use in the targeting vector identify an expect 8.1 kb wild type gata6 dna fragment , while correctly target cell contain an additional 3.2 kb fragment due to the introduction of a new ecori site .
when ndei digest dna be probe with a dna fragment lie 5 ' to the expect position of the introduce loxp site , it identify the predict 13.2 kb wild type fragment and a novel 15.2 kb fragment , which result from introduce the neo cassette into the gata6 locus .
five correctly target e cell clone be recover and three of these cell line be use to generate chimeric mouse by morula aggregation [ 10 ] .
these chimeric animal be then mat with cd - 1 mouse and successful germline transmission of the gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) allele be confirm by southern blot analysis of tail dna ( fig. 1b ) .
mouse carry a single gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) / + allele be viable and fertile .
however , we be unable to obtain mouse that be homozygous for this allele , which suggest that the inclusion of the neo cassette disrupt gata6 function and result in embryonic lethality a observe for gata6 - / - embryo [ 2 , 5 ] .
we therefore establish a mouse line , gata6loxp / + , that lack the neo cassette by induce recombination between the frt site in vivo [ 11 ] .
this be achieve by mat gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) / + mouse to a transgenic mouse , b6 ; sjl - tg ( actflpe ) 9205dym / j , in which flp recombinase be widely express from the human beta actin gene promoter [ 11 ] .
correct excision of the neo cassette be confirm in offspring by southern blot and pcr analysis ( fig. 1b & c ) .
gata6loxp / + mouse be finally interbreed to generate gata6loxp / loxpmice , which be healthy , fertile and have reach maturity .
figure 1
generation of a gata6 conditional null allele .
( a ) schematic show a map of the gata6 genomic locus and the targeting vector with exon represent by open box .
the relative position of southern blot probe ( line ) , pcr primer ( small arrowhead ) , loxp ( large arrowhead ) and frt ( oval ) site , as well a cassette encode neomycin phosphotransferase ( neo ) and diphtheria toxin ( dt ) , be include .
size of relevant ecori ( e ) , ndei ( n ) , and paci ( p ) restriction endonuclease fragment be show in kilobase pair ( kb ) .
( b ) southern blot analysis of genomic dna isolate from e cell ( lane 1 , 2 , 8 and 9 ) or mouse tail ( lane 3 – 7 and 10 ) .
an example of an e cell line contain a correctly target gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) allele be show in lane 2 and 8 .
mouse harbour the modify gata6 allele be generate from these e cell ( lane 3 and 10 ) .
exon 2 of gata6 be delete ( gata6del ) or the neo cassette alone be delete , leave gata6 exon 2 flank by loxp element ( gata6loxp ) , by breed gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) mouse to transgenic mouse express either cre ( lane 6 and 7 ) or flp ( lane 4 ) recombinases , respectively .
the size of restriction fragment identify by 5 ' and 3 ' probe ( fig. 1a ) be deduce from their position relative to standard dna fragment .
( c ) the genotype of mouse and embryo be also determine by pcr amplification of genomic dna .
primer be design that differentiate between the gata6 + ( gt4f / 4r ; 159 bp ) , gataloxp ( gt4f / 4r ; 250 bp ) and gata6del ( k / o2f / 2r ; 568 bp ) allele , as well a neo ( neo a / b ; 225 bp ) , flp ( flp f / r ; 750 bp ) , and cre ( cre 1 / 2 ; 300 bp ) transgene .
we next address whether removal of gata6 could be induce in vivo by expression of cre recombinase .
we choose to disrupt the gata6 gene in the gastrointestinal tract because it be highly express in the epithelium and may have role in control gut physiology or development .
to produce gata6loxp / + villin - cre mouse , we breed gata6loxp / loxp mouse with transgenic mouse ( tg ( vil - cre ) 997gum ) in which cre expression be direct to the epithelial cell of the small intestine by the villin ( vil1 ) promoter [ 12 ] .
use this transgenic strain of mouse , cre activity can be detect in the epithelium of the small intestine from e14.5 [ 12 ] .
gata6loxp / + villin - cre male be mat with gata6loxp / loxp female to obtain gata6loxp / + villin - cre control and gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre experimental offspring .
in previous experiment , we observe that the efficiency through which cre mediate recombination between loxp site vary between different transgenic male mouse [ 13 ] .
we note a similar situation when use various gata6loxp / + villin - cre male .
in the majority of case ( 4 / 5 stud male ) we be unable to obtain gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre offspring ( n = 95 mouse genotyped ) , and this lethality associate with presumptive loss of gata6 in the intestine be currently under investigation .
however , one gata6loxp / + villin - cre male do produce offspring ( 12 / 90 ) whose genotype be determine to be gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre by pcr analysis of tail dna .
we , therefore , use rt - pcr with gata6 primer correspond to nucleotide sequence predict to be delete after recombination between gata6 loxp element , to compare the steady - state level of gata6 mrna in intestine isolate from control and experimental mouse generate by this particular gata6loxp / + villin - cre male .
fig. 2a show that gata6 mrna could be detect in control intestine but not in intestine isolate from a subset of gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre offspring .
the remain gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre mouse be find to continue to express gata6 mrna at vary level ( data not show ) .
we also examine expression of gata6 protein in the intestine of gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre offspring derive from the same gata6loxp / + villin - cre male .
fig. 2b show that gata6 be detect a an abundant nuclear protein in the epithelial cell of control intestine .
however , gata6loxp / loxp villin - cre mouse display a marked reduction in the abundance of intestinal gata6 ( fig. 2b ) .
from these result , we conclude that the gata6 gene can be conditionally disrupt in gata6loxp / loxp mouse by cell - type specific expression of cre recombinase .
figure 2
gata6 can be successfully ablate in the intestine of gata6loxp / loxp mouse by expression of cre from the villin promoter .
( a ) the steady - state level of gata6 mrna be compare in intestine isolate from four control gata6loxp / + villin - cre ( lane 2 – 5 ) or experimental gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre ( lane 6 – 9 ) mouse .
amplification of pol2 ( polr2a ) mrna show that similar level of start material be utilize in each reaction .
( b ) immunohistochemistry show that gata6 be detect a an abundant nuclear protein in epithelial cell ( arrow ) of control intestine , but be detect at greatly reduce level in gata6loxp / loxpvillin - cre intestine .
cre - mediate deletion of exon2 in gata6loxp / loxp mouse be predict to result in loss of gata6 function .
if this be true , we expect that embryo homozygous for the delete allele ( gata6del ) should undergo developmental arrest , a be describe for gata6 - / - embryo [ 2 , 5 ] .
gata6del / + mouse be produce by mat gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) / + mouse with an eiia - cre transgenic mouse ( b6.fvb - tg ( eiia - cre ) c5379lmgd / j ) .
the eiia - cre mouse express cre recombinase in nearly all tissue , include those of pre-implantation embryo , and have be use previously to mediate recombination between loxp site in germ cell [ 14 ] .
gata6 + / del progeny be identify by southern blot analysis of ndei digest tail dna .
a show in fig. 1b , southern blot hybridize with the 5 ' gata6 probe ( fig. 1a ) reveal the conversion of a 15.2 kb ndei fragment from the gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) allele to an expect 12 kb ndei fragment from the gata6del allele .
gata6 + / del be then mat inter se , and the genotype of embryo collect between e8.5 and e11.5 be determine by pcr analysis of genomic dna .
of 77 embryo recover , 27 be gata6 + / + and 50 be gata6 + / del ( table 1 ) .
in addition , 23 partially resorb empty decidual mass be recover , which we believe likely result from the early developmental arrest of gata6del / del embryo .
we finally determine whether the developmental lethality associate with loss of gata6 could be induce by expression of cre in pre-implantation embryo .
to achieve this , gata6loxp / loxp mouse be breed to gata6 + / deleiia - cre mouse , which be heterozygous for the eiia - cre transgene .
the genotype of result embryo range from e8.5 to e11.5 be again determine by pcr .
while we recover 14 gata6loxp / + , 18 gata6loxp / del , and 16 gata6loxp / + eiiacre embryo , no gata6loxp / deleiiacre embryo be identify although 13 empty resorb decidual mass be observe ( table 1 ) .
table 1
embryonic lethality associate with loss of gata6 function
conclusion
in summary , we conclude that we have generate a line of mouse in which gata6 transcriptional activity can be ablate by expression of cre .
we believe that the availability of this mouse will be useful to elucidate the contribution of gata6 during organogenesis as well a it physiological role in adult mouse .
method
plasmid construction
a bacterial artificial chromosome ( bac #
rp23 - 410i12 ) that contain gata6 genomic dna be obtain from bacpac resource , child hospital research institute , oakland , ca .
plasmid pneb - dt - gata6 be generate by clone a 12.2 kb ecorv / paci genomic fragment contain gata6 exon 1 and 2 into the paci / hincii site of a vector , pneb193 - dt , which contain a diphtheria toxin ( dt ) expression cassette to enrich against random integration of the targeting plasmid in e cell .
a cassette contain loxp - neo - loxp be amplify by pcr from the plasmid psv - lnl ( modify from zhang et al ) [ 15 ] use the follow primer : gata6et1 : gcttgctgtttgagtctaccccatttctgcctgtttcttgacatcccttcgaattctggtaccggcgcgcctagtcgac , gata6et2 : atccattattgtcaatgtctaaagatggaattgtctctgcacaagctatcttctcaactcgagcccttaattaaccggt .
these oligonucleotides contain 55 bp of sequence from gata6 intron 2 ( underline ) .
this amplicon be introduce into gata6 intron 2 sequence in pneb - dt - gata6 by homologous recombination in e.coli follow the procedure describe by lee et al [ 8 ] the loxpneoloxp cassette be then convert to a single loxp site by expression of cre recombinase [ 8 ] .
a loxp ( frtneofrt ) cassette be then amplify from psv - lfnf use primer gata6et3 : cacgctggtggttgtaaggcggtttgtgtttaaggtgtgcggttggcctggacgtgtggtaccggcgcgcctagtcgac , gata6et4 : gaaaaagttacctagcccagagaaagtgagatgccaggaaaggcataaggatatcaactcgagcccttaattaaccggt .
these oligonucleotides contain 56 bp ( gata6et3 ) and 52 bp ( gata6et4 ) of sequence from gata6 intron 1 , respectively .
this cassette be introduce into gata6 intron 1 , again use homologous recombination in e.coli. to generate the final targeting vector ( fig. 1a ) .
e cell targeting and animal
linear targeting vector ( 100μg ) be introduce into r1 e cell by electroporation , and the genotype of colony resistant to 350μg / ml of geneticin ( gibco brl ) be determine by southern blot ( fig. 1b ) .
chimeric mouse be generate by aggregation of e cell with cd - 1 morula a describe previously [ 10 ] and the modify allele be pass through the germline by breed chimera to cd1 mouse .
gata6loxp / loxp mouse be produce by breed gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) / + mouse to b6 ; sjl - tg ( actflpe ) 9205dym / j mouse [ 16 ] ( jackson lab ) to delete the frtneofrt cassette by flp - mediate recombination in the germline .
the actflpe transgene be remove by breed f1 gata6loxp / loxp mouse into cd - 1 mouse .
gata6 + / del mouse be generate by mat gata6loxp ( frtneofrt ) / + animal with b6 . fvb - tg ( eiia - cre ) c5379lmgd / j transgenic mouse [ 17 ] ( jackson lab ) to allow cre - mediate recombination between loxp element in the germline .
the eiia - cre transgene be remove by breed gata6 + / del f1 mouse with cd1 mouse .
the mcw iacuc committee approve all procedure use animal .
southern blot , pcr and rt - pcr
southern blot analysis be perform use standard condition with probe indicate in fig. 1 .
genotype be determine by pcr use the follow oligonucleotide primer pair : gata6 gt4f / 4r , gtggttgtaaggcggtttgt , acgcgagctccagaaaaagt ; gata6 k / o2f / 2r , agtctccctgtcattcttcctgctc , tgatcaaacctgggtctacactccta ; flp f / r , ggtccaactgcagcccaagcttcc , gtggatcgatcctaccccttgcg [ 16 ] ; cre 1 / 2 , gttcgcaagaacctgatggaca , ctagagcctgttttgcacgttc [ 18 ] ; neo a / b , gccaacgctatgtcctgatagcggt , agccggtcttgtcgatcaggatgat .
rt - pcr be perform a describe previously [ 19 ] with the follow primer pair : gata6 9 / 10 ; agttttccggcagagcagta , agtcaaggccatccactgtc , pol2 f / r ; ctgatgcgggtgctgagtgagaagg , gcggttgaccccatgacgagtg .
immunohistochemistry
immunohistochemistry be perform use antigen retrieval in citrate buffer a describe previously [ 13 ] use an anti-gata6 antibody ( af1700 r & d system , 1 / 1000 dilution ) .
abbreviation
neo , neomycin phosphotransferase
author ' contribution
c.p.s. generate the targeting vector and carry out analysis of conditional knockout mouse , as well a contribute to experimental design and draft of the manuscript .
j. l. generate aggregation chimera .
s.a.d. conceive of the study , contribute to experimental design and interpretation of result , and coordinate the project and writing of the manuscript .
acknowledgement
we would like to thank drs. robert burgess and francis stewart for provide plasmid and dr. neal copeland for provide bacterial strain use in recombineering .
pregnant mare serum gonadotrophin ( pmsg ) use in superovulation be obtain from dr. a.f. parlow at the national hormone and peptide program ( torrance , ca ) .
we be also grateful to dr. michele battle for critically evaluate the manuscript and for provide plasmid .
this work be support by an nih training grant from the mcw cardiovascular research centre to c.p.s and nih grant to s.a.d .
inactivation of the huntington 's disease gene ( hdh ) impair anterior streak formation and early patterning of the mouse embryo
abstract
background
huntingtin , the hd gene encode protein mutate by polyglutamine expansion in huntington 's disease , be require in extraembryonic tissue for proper gastrulation , implicate it activity in nutrition or patterning of the develop embryo .
to test these possibility , we have use whole mount in situ hybridization to examine embryonic patterning and morphogenesis in homozygous hdhex4 / 5 huntingtin deficient embryo .
result
in the absence of huntingtin , expression of nutritive gene appear normal but e7.0 – 7.5 embryo exhibit a unique combination of patterning defect .
notable be a shorten primitive streak , absence of a proper node and diminish production of anterior streak derivative .
reduce wnt3a , tbx6 and dll1 expression signify decrease paraxial mesoderm and reduce otx2 expression and lack of headfolds denote a failure of head development .
in addition , gene initially broadly express be not properly restrict to the posterior , a evidence by the ectopic expression of nodal , fgf8 and gsc in the epiblast and t ( brachyury ) and evx1 in proximal mesoderm derivative .
despite impair posterior restriction and anterior streak deficit , overall anterior / posterior polarity be establish .
a single primitive streak form and marker expression show that the anterior epiblast and anterior visceral endoderm ( ave ) be specify .
conclusion
huntingtin be essential in the early patterning of the embryo for formation of the anterior region of the primitive streak , and for down - regulation of a subset of dynamic growth and transcription factor gene .
these finding provide fundamental start point for identify the novel cellular and molecular activity of huntingtin in the extraembryonic tissue that govern normal anterior streak development .
this knowledge may prove to be important for understand the mechanism by which the dominant polyglutamine expansion in huntingtin determine the loss of neuron in huntington 's disease .
background
huntington 's disease ( hd ) be a dominantly inherit neurodegenerative disorder that be cause by cag repeat in the hd locus that extend a polyglutamine tract in a ubiquitous heat domain protein call huntingtin [ 1 ] .
the molecular mechanism by which the new property that be confer on huntingtin by the polyglutamine expansion lead to the hallmark loss of striatal neuron in hd be not know .
however , polyglutamine expansion in unrelated protein that target distinct neuronal cell population cause distinct ' polyglutamine ' neurodegenerative disorder .
this observation strongly suggest that the striatal cell specificity of the polyglutamine expansion in the context of huntingtin must be determine by some aspect of huntingtin 's structure , subcellular location or activity [ 2 ] .
huntingtin be postulate to function a a flexible ~ 350 kda heat domain scaffold that may facilitate the assembly and possibly the subcellular location of large protein complex [ 3 - 7 ] .
huntingtin 's large number of diverse cytoplasmic and nuclear protein binding partner strongly suggest that huntingtin may participate in a variety of cellular process that range from trafficking of growth factor complex to gene transcription ( review in [ 5 , 8 , 9 ] .
however , despite the potential importance of huntingtin 's normal function to our understanding of how the dominant polyglutamine mutation cause hd pathology , huntingtin 's precise molecular and cellular activity have not be define .
therefore , we , and others , set out to discover huntingtin 's essential activity by study the effect of huntingtin deficiency in the mouse .
inactivation of the mouse hd gene ( hdh ) have show that huntingtin be not require for cell viability , a evidence by the survival of mouse embryonic stem cell and neuron that lack huntingtin [ 10 - 12 ] .
however , huntingtin be need at the level of the organism for proper mammalian embryonic development [ 10 , 13 , 14 ] .
complete lack of huntingtin result in developmental arrest during gastrulation , while severe reduction of huntingtin level result in abnormal neurogenesis and perinatal lethality [ 15 ] .
analysis of huntingtin deficient hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo reveal that homozygous inactivation of the mouse hd gene do not overtly affect development until e7.0 .
by e7.5 , mutant embryo exhibit a shorten primitive streak , reduce size and , by morphology , lack a node and head fold .
mutant be rapidly resorb by e8.0 [ 10 ] .
importantly , the expression of huntingtin only in extraembryonic tissue in chimera rescue this gastrulation phenotype , suggest that huntingtin be require only in cell of the extraembryonic lineage and act in a cell non-autonomous manner at this stage [ 16 ] .
extraembryonic tissue be essential for supply nutrient and signal that direct anterior / posterior axis formation and patterning in the develop embryo ( review in [ 17 ] ) , implicate huntingtin in either or both of these process .
of these possibility , the nutritive role have be more extensively investigate .
however , huntingtin deficient embryo do not display obvious visceral endoderm defect , with the notable exception of compromise iron transport in late stage mutant , although iron uptake be undisturbed [ 16 ] and endocytosis be not impair in huntingtin deficient embryo or embryonic stem cell [ 16 , 18 ] .
by the same token , huntingtin shuttle through the nucleus , where it be require for proper nuclear localization of it transcription factor partner , suggest that huntingtin may play a role in transcription cascade in extraembryonic tissue that pattern the embryo [ 18 ] .
therefore , we have examine this hypothesis , by monitor the expression of gene that determine normal embryonic patterning and morphogenesis in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 huntingtin deficient embryo .
our result support and refine the hypothesis , indicate that huntingtin be require for proper mesoderm patterning and for normal regional restriction of the expression of a subset of growth and transcription factor .
result
huntingtin - deficient embryo exhibit abnormal streak progression and paraxial mesoderm production
since extraembryonic tissue supply nutrient to the develop embryo , we test the possibility that huntingtin deficiency may perturb this function by perform rt - pcr analysis to examine the expression of a panel of ' nutritive ' gene in e7.5 wild - type and hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 huntingtin deficient embryo .
consistent with a previous report [ 16 ] , no obvious difference be find in the expression of " nutritive " gene ( hnf4 , afp , tfn , apoai , apo - aiv , and apob ) or gene involve in yolk sac hematopoiesis or vasculogenesis ( ttr , rbp , flt1 , flk1 , tal1 , rbtn2 , gata1 ) ( data not show ) , suggest that huntingtin be not essential for the proper expression of gene require for the nutritive function of the extraembryonic tissue .
to investigate huntingtin 's developmental activity , we then analyze the expression of gene which pattern the early embryo or mark morphogenic landmark in wild - type and hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo by whole mount and section in situ hybridization .
the dissection confirm previous morphologic data at e7.0 – 7.5 that all hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 homozygote exhibit abnormal morphology , include shorten primitive streak and a lack of morphological head fold or node [ 10 , 13 ] .
the result of in situ hybridization analysis also confirm that all three germ layer and extraembryonic tissue be form in huntingtin deficient embryo .
otx2 , normally express in the anterior neuroectoderm and anterior visceral endoderm [ 19 ] , be express in mutant embryo at e7.5 ( fig. 1a , b ) although the expression domain appear reduce .
similarly , hesx1 expression be grossly normal in mutant embryo , with expression localize to the ave and neuroectoderm ( fig. 1c – f , [ 20 ] ) , although the expression domain also appear reduced .
these result indicate appropriate specification and movement of anterior visceral endoderm ( ave ) cell from the distal tip and suggest that neuroectoderm be induce in the mutant embryo .
figure 1
ave displacement and anterior neurectoderm induction occur normally in the absence of huntingtin .
whole mount in situ hybridization analysis of otx2 ( a , b ) and hesx ( c - f ) in e7.5 normal ( a , c , e ) and mutant ( b , d , f ) embryo reveal that neuroectoderm and anterior visceral endoderm ( ave ) develop normally in huntingtin deficient embryo , although the neuroectoderm expression domain be reduce .
asymmetrical expression of hesx in mutant embryo ( f ) suggest that left - right transcriptional control be maintain .
hnf3β expression in the definitive endoderm extend around the distal tip and be reduce in the ave ( * ) in both normal ( g , i ) and mutant embryo ( h , j ) .
take together , these result suggest normal ectoderm and endoderm induction and localization in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo .
embryo be show in lateral view , with anterior to the left in all picture with the exception of e and f .
embryo be view from the anterior aspect in e and f .
to examine definitive endoderm formation , the expression of hnf3β ( foxa2 ) in mutant and wild - type embryo be analyze .
in wild - type embryo , hnf3β expression be confine to the node and anterior definitive endoderm ( fig. 1g , i [ 21 ] ) .
mutant embryo exhibit hnf3β - reactive definitive endoderm over the disorganized anterior streak region and proceed rostrally around the distal tip ( fig. 1h , j ) .
in both normal and mutant embryo , the ave exhibit little hnf3β expression .
therefore , huntingtin deficiency do not greatly affect hnf3β regulation or the reorganization of the visceral endoderm .
the lack of a morphological node and presence of a shortened streak , together with reduce neuroectoderm and lack of headfolds , suggest that anterior streak formation may be impair in huntingtin deficient embryo .
to investigate this possibility , we examine mesoderm formation in mutant embryo .
mesoderm be specify in the mutant embryo , a mark by the expression of t ( brachyury ) and evx1 ( fig. 2a – f ) .
however , close inspection of the data reveal abnormal patterning within this tissue and it derivative .
t , normally express in the primitive streak , node and axial head process / notochord mesoderm [ 22 ] , be detect in the shorten streak and axial mesoderm in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , extend rostrally from a region of weakly positive cell ( fig. 2a , b ) .
t expression appear weak , however , in the anterior streak , correspond to cell that will give rise to axial mesoderm ( fig. 2d ) .
t be also ectopically express in mutant extraembryonic mesoderm at the anterior embryonic junction and along the chorion ( fig. 2b , d ) .
similarly , evx1 , normally express in primitive streak mesoderm at e7.5 with high level in proximal cell [ 23 ] , be express in the proximal shorten streak but be also aberrantly express throughout the extraembryonic mesoderm , allantois and chorion ( fig. 2e , f ) .
extraembryonic mesoderm , derive from the proximal streak , do not normally express t or evx1 in wild - type embryo [ 22 ] .
therefore , the inappropriate expression of t and evx1 , the shorten primitive streak , and the absence of a morphological node , all suggest that the anterior primitive streak be deficient in the mutant embryo .
figure 2
huntingtin be require for formation of anterior primitive streak and paraxial mesoderm .
whole mount and section insitu hybridization of e7.5 embryo show t ( brachyury ) ( a - d ) be express in the primitive streak , node , axial mesoderm and evx1 ( e - f ) be express in the primitive streak , most strongly in the proximal streak wild - type embryo .
however , in mutant embryo , both t ( b , d ) and evx1 ( f ) be ectopically express in the extraembryonic region .
wnt3a expression be reduce in mutant embryo ( h ) , although the localization of it expression to the proximal streak be the same a in wild - type embryo ( g ) .
analysis of paraxial mesoderm marker tbx6 ( i , j ) and dll1 ( k , l ) , reveal that these marker be reduce in mutant embryo ( j , l ) , suggest impair paraxial mesoderm production in the absence of huntingtin .
embryo in a - h be show in a lateral view with anterior orient to the left .
embryo in i - l be show in a posterior view ( i , k ) or near posterior ( j , l ) view with proximal orient toward the top .
in ( c , d ) , al = allantois , a = amnion , ch = chorion , ee = embryonic node ( n ) , em = extraembryonic mesoderm , n = node , p = primitive streak .
rather than a node , mutant embryo exhibit a region of disorganize cell ( * ) at the distal extent of the short primitive streak .
the anterior streak generate paraxial mesoderm .
therefore we examine paraxial mesoderm formation in wild - type and mutant embryo , reveal deficit in mesoderm patterning .
start at e.7.5 , wnt3a be express in the primitive streak in cell fat to become paraxial mesoderm .
in huntingtin deficient mutant , wnt3a be induce in the proximal streak ( fig. 2g , h ) , confirm stage appropriate posterior development , in contrast to the absence of anterior head fold .
however , expression of wnt3a be noticeably reduce in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , suggest a defect in paraxial mesoderm development ( fig. 2h ) .
reduce expression of tbx6 in the mesoderm lateral to the primitive streak in mutant embryo confirm this interpretation ( fig. 2i , j ) .
furthermore , in mutant embryo at e7.5 , the expression of dll1 in the distal streak region and in only a narrow swath of cell locate laterally confirm the paucity of paraxial mesoderm ( fig. 2k , l , [ 24 ] ) .
these result strongly suggest that anterior primitive streak formation be impaired , result in reduce axial and paraxial mesoderm formation and impair neural development .
impair regional restriction of growth factor expression in the absence of huntingtin
to elucidate the apparent patterning deficit , we next analyze signaling molecule that be require for early patterning .
nodal , a member of the tgfβ family of secrete molecule be require for the formation and maintenance of the primitive streak and induction of the ave [ 25 - 27 ] .
nodal be normally express throughout the epiblast and overlie visceral endoderm at early post implantation stage [ 28 ] , but later become restricted to the posterior of the embryo to the site of primitive streak with asymmetrical visceral endoderm expression mark the left - right axis .
by e7.5 , nodal expression be restrict to the node .
nodal expression be assess in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo heterozygous for the ndl lac z allele [ 28 , 29 ] .
notably , heterozygous loss of nodal do not alter the hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 phenotype , a determine by morphology of hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 : ndllacz / ndl + embryo compare with hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo ( data not show ) .
in contrast to wild - type embryo , which exhibit tight restriction of nodal . lacz expression to the node , hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 : ndllacz / ndl + embryo express nodal . lacz throughout the endoderm overlie the epiblast , with high level in the posterior in an asymmetric pattern ( fig. 3a – d ) .
the lack of tight restriction of nodal signal be consistent with a failure to form an organized node structure .
figure 3
impair regional restriction of gene expression in huntingtin deficient embryo .
x - gal staining of nodal - lacz embryo show staining in endoderm near the node of normal embryo ( a , c ) but broad staining in mutant embryo ( b , d ) , although expression be high in the posterior .
the tight node expression of nodal in normal embryo ( c ) be lose in mutant embryo ( d ) , consistent with the loss of a morphological node in the absence of huntingtin .
whole mount and in situ hybridization of e7.5 day embryo reveal that fgf8 be detect in the proximal streak and be downregulated in cell migrate out of the streak in normal embryo ( e , g ) .
in contrast , fgf8 remain highly expressed in mutant embryo ( f , h ) .
transient expression of gsc in the definitive endoderm overlie the prospective head region in normal embryo ( i , k ) be distinguish in other cell layer in normal embryo but remain unrestricted in mutant embryo ( j , l ) .
earlier posterior expression of gsc be also maintain in mutant embryo ( j ) while it be down - regulate in normal embryo ( i ) .
embryo ( a , b , e , f , g , h , i , k , l ) be show in a lateral view with anterior orient to the left .
embryo ( c , d ) be in a posterior view .
fgf8 signaling be also essential for normal gastrulation in the mouse embryo .
fgf8 be require for cell migration away from the primitive streak [ 30 ] .
express just prior to streak formation in the posterior epiblast and visceral endoderm , fgf8 be restrict to the streak mesoderm at e7.5 in a decrease proximal - distal gradient and be downregulated in cell shortly after they exit the streak ( fig. 3e , g ) .
in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , fgf8 expression be strongly express in the posterior region in the primitive streak and ectopically in the endoderm overlie the entire epiblast ( fig. 3f , h ) .
however , streak derivative appear to migrate normally a evidence by the proper anterior expression of marker such a otx2 , hnf3β and hesx1 anteriorly ( fig. 1 ) .
therefore , mutant embryo exhibit normal migration of streak derivative but display impair fgf8 repression in mutant endoderm .
hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo also fail to restrict the expression of goosecoid ( gsc ) .
normally , gsc be initially express in the visceral endoderm and proximal , posterior streak where the primitive streak will form prior to gastrulation .
a the primitive streak form and extend , gsc be express in the distal streak , the node , and the axial mesoderm extend anteriorly from the node ( fig. 3i , k , [ 31 , 32 ] ) .
however , in the mutant hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , high level of gsc expression remain unrestricted in the endoderm overlie the entire embryo and ectopically in cell adjacent to the ectoplacental cone ( fig. 3j , l ) .
these result suggest that , in contrast to proper hnf3β regulation , gsc remain inappropriately activated in mutant visceral and definitive endoderm , implicate huntingtin in the proper restriction of this homeodomain transcription factor .
huntingtin be not require for expression of extraembryonic signaling molecule
previous study of chimeric embryo suggest that huntingtin be require only in the extraembryonic tissue for proper development [ 16 ] .
signal from the extraembryonic tissue be critical for the induction of embryonic signal and for pattern the epiblast .
consequently , we examine extraembryonic development in huntingtin deficient embryo .
hnf4 be a transcription factor express in the primitive endoderm as soon a this tissue become distinct and be a key regulator of visceral endoderm secrete factor such a alphafetoprotein , apolipoproteins , and transferrin .
inactivation of hnf4 result in impair gastrulation [ 33 , 34 ] .
at e7.5 , hnf4 be express in the columnar visceral endoderm cell at the extraembryonic - ectoderm junction ( fig. 4a , [ 33 ] ) .
in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , consistent with normal primitive and visceral endoderm differentiation , hnf4 expression appear normal , although the signal be strong in mutant embryo compare to wild - type embryo ( fig. 4b ) .
similarly , pem , a transcription factor express in proximal visceral endoderm and ectoplacental cone in wild - type embryo at e7.5 , also be express in these tissue in the mutant embryo ( fig. 4c , d [ 35 ] ) .
however , pem express visceral endoderm hang over the anterior of the mutant embryo , reveal abnormal location despite grossly normal differentiation .
figure 4
normal expression of extraembryonic marker in huntingtin deficient embryo .
whole mount in situ hybridization analysis at e7.5 of marker of the extraembryonic tissue reveal grossly normal expression in the absence of huntingtin .
hnf4 , express in the visceral endoderm at the junction of embryonic - ectoderm junction ( a ) , be normal in mutant embryo , although the signal be slightly high ( b ) .
similarly , the expression of pem transcript be maintain in mutant embryo ( d ) similar to normal embryo ( c ) , although pem be express in the abnormal lopsided overhang of visceral endoderm over the anterior of the mutant embryo .
expression of extraembryonic signal molecule be unaffected by the loss of huntingtin , a evidence by the expression of bmp4 ( e , f ) in the extraembryonic ectoderm , and lefty1 and dkk1 ( i - l ) in the ave in mutant embryo .
bmp4 be not localize , however , to a ring of extraembryonic ectoderm in mutant embryo ( f ) a in normal embryo ( e ) .
primitive germ cell ( pcgs ) be induce normally in both wild - type ( g ) and mutant embryo ( h ) , suggest the bmp4 signaling from the extraembryonic ectoderm to the epiblast be normal .
lefty1 expression appear disorganized in mutant embryo ( i ) compare to wild - type embryo ( j ) .
in contrast , the anterior expression of dkk1 in the ave in mutant embryo ( l ) match the wild - type expression pattern ( k ) .
despite normal ave formation , head fold fail to form in mutant embryo , even when culture in nutrient rich medium for 24 hour .
wild - type e7.5 embryo , when culture in 75 % rat serum , develop somite ( m ) , heart ( white arrow , n ) and head fold ( blue arrow head , n ) in culture .
in contrast , huntingtin deficient embryo continue to live in culture but do not form headfolds , heart or somite ( o ) .
embryo be show in a lateral view ( a - f , i - j ) with anterior orient to the left .
embryo in ( g , h , k , l ) be show in an anterior view with proximal orient up .
signal from the extraembryonic tissue , include the anterior visceral endoderm and extraembryonic ectoderm be require for proper formation and patterning of the epiblast [ 17 ] .
bmp4 be a signaling molecule that be first express uniformly throughout the extraembryonic ectoderm and subsequently be localize to a ring of extraembryonic ectoderm adjacent to the epiblast ( fig. 4e , [ 36 ] ) .
a key factor in regulate the formation of the node and primitive streak , bmp4 be require for pattern the embryo along the proximodistal axis [ 37 - 40 ] .
in the absence of huntingtin , bmp4 expression be properly maintain in the hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 extraembryonic ectoderm but be also express throughout the extraembryonic ectoderm ( fig. 4f ) in a pattern that be similar to early bmp4 expression rather than be restrict to a ring of extraembryonic ectoderm a see in the wild - type embryo
to assess bmp4 signaling from the extraembryonic ectoderm , we evaluate primordial germ cell ( pgcs ) , which require bmp4 for their induction [ 37 ] .
pgcs can first be detect at e7.0 and subsequently underlie the posterior portion of the primitive streak .
whole mount staining of e7.5 mutant and wild - type embryo for alkaline phosphatase activity reveal that pcgs form in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , suggest that bmp4 signaling be functional in the absence of huntingtin ( fig. 4g , h ) .
the anterior visceral endoderm ( ave ) be also an extraembryonic source of signal that be critical for early patterning .
wnt and nodal antagonist , dkk1 ( mdkk - 1 ) and lefty1 respectively , be express in the ave and be important in limit the posteriorization of the anterior embryo by restrict nodal and wnt signaling [ 41 - 43 ] .
in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , both dkk1 ( fig. 4i , j ) and lefty1 ( fig. 4k , l ) be express normally in the ave a compare with wild - type embryo .
however , dkk - 1 level appear to be slightly increase in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo , although the pattern of dkk - 1 expression remain unchanged and this increase may just reflect the same amount of expression in a small area .
therefore , the ectopic expression of nodal ( fig. 3a – d ) and the decrease wnt3a expression ( fig. 2h ) in mutant embryo do not appear to be result of change in the expression pattern of lefty1 or dkk1 .
despite normal ave formation and neuroectoderm induction , head fold do not form in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo .
therefore , to determine whether mutant embryo be inherently capable of form head fold , embryo harvest at stage e7.5 be allow to progress in rich culture medium in vitro for 24 hour .
wild - type embryo continue to develop head fold , somite and heart ( fig. 4m , n ) .
in contrast , mutant stage 7.5 embryo do not develop headfolds , heart or somite , although these embryo continue to live ( fig. 4o ) .
these result strongly suggest that in the absence of huntingtin , embryo be unable to undergo organogenesis , even if they continue to live past e7.5 in a nutrient rich environment .
discussion
we have investigate the embryonic process that require huntingtin in order to more precisely delineate huntingtin 's essential molecular and cellular activity and to provide clue to the mechanism by which the dominant polyglutamine expansion mutation in huntingtin lead to hd pathogenesis .
in pursue the finding that huntingtin be need only in extraembryonic tissue for normal gastrulation , our data fail to provide evidence of abnormal nutritive gene expression in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo .
instead , our result reveal that huntingtin be require for normal anterior streak formation and the consequent production of paraxial mesoderm , with a previously unrecognized role for huntingtin in the proper extinction of transiently and / or dynamically express gene .
indeed , the hallmark of the huntingtin deficient molecular phenotype be the impair down - regulation of a subset of dynamically express gene , after the proper onset of expression .
this phenomenon do not reflect a lack of anterior / posterior axis formation , a evidence by the formation of the ave anteriorly and the primitive streak posteriorly .
nor can it be simply explain by delay development , a stage - specific marker , such a wnt3a and primordial germ cell , which be detectable at e7.0 in wild - type embryo , be induce appropriately .
furthermore , the expression of t and evx1 in the extraembryonic mesoderm of mutant embryo be not a feature of wild - type embryo , even at early stage .
this strongly suggest that in huntingtin deficient embryo , the migration of the distal streak derivative to the extraembryonic mesoderm occur normally but that the down - regulation of these gene be impair .
this impairment may also explain the failure of huntingtin deficient embryo to properly restrict the expression of fgf8 , nodal and gsc .
thus , huntingtin may play a direct role in the transcriptional regulation , or mrna stability of these gene or it may act indirectly by intersect with other pathway that regulate the expression of these gene .
the requirement for huntingtin in the extraembryonic tissue have prompt u to test whether impair extraembryonic signal might be responsible for the dysregulation of gene expression within the epiblast that be observe in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo .
extraembryonic development in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo be associate with mildly elevate level expression of hnf4 in the primitive endoderm and pem in the lopsided anterior chorion but the expression of other known signal , such a bmp4 from the extraembryonic ectoderm , and dkk1 and lefty1 from the ave , appear to be normal , although the slight increase in dkk - 1 expression in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo suggest that further investigation into wnt signaling be warranted .
moreover , extraembryonic bmp4 signaling be not impair in the absence of huntingtin , a the induction of pcgs in mutant embryo be normal , imply proper transport and secretion of the appropriate extraembryonic signal .
however , nodal , fgf8 and gsc be express ectopically in the visceral endoderm of hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo .
both nodal and fgf8 , important growth factor require for normal development of the epiblast , be tightly regulate during gastrulation .
therefore , misexpression of either or both of these factor , or of goosecoid , in the visceral endoderm could contribute to the hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 mutant phenotype .
in addition , it be possible that other extraembryonic signal ( s ) that we have not analyze may also be affect by the lack of huntingtin activity in extraembryonic cell in mutant embryo .
huntingtin deficient embryo also fail to form headfolds , and to undergo organogenesis , even after culture in nutrient rich medium .
the absence of headfold formation in these embryo do not appear to be a result of a failure to induce neurectoderm or a failure to form the ave , since mutant embryo express marker such a otx2 , ddk1 , lefty1 and hesx1 .
in addition , since node formation be not require for neural induction [ 44 - 46 ] , the failure to form a node in huntingtin deficient embryo be also unlikely to explain the lack of headfolds .
the apparent reduction of paraxial mesoderm in hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 embryo could explain the lack of headfolds since paraxial mesoderm be important for the full development of neuroectoderm , and consequently , headfolds .
alternatively , the inability to manifest headfolds could suggest that huntingtin be require at a very early stage for normal cns development .
this conclusion be consistent with the finding that severely reduce level of huntingtin , from a hypomorphic hdh allele , lead to abnormal brain later in embryonic development [ 15 ] .
the cardinal feature of complete hdh inactivation that we observe be similar to the phenotype that stem from the complete inactivation of the polycomb group gene ( pc - g ) eed ( embryonic ectoderm development ) .
indeed , complete deficiency for either huntingtin or the eed protein lead to abnormal streak development , lack of headfold formation , ectopic t , evx1 and nodal expression and disruption of anterior primitive streak mesoderm production [ 47 ] .
interestingly , eed protein be also require for proper trophoblast development and normal maintenance of imprint x - inactivation and genomic imprinting [ 47 - 49 ] , suggest that these activity warrant investigation in huntingtin deficient embryo .
thus , our observation provide unexpected start - point in the search for huntingtin 's precise molecular activity , which begin with the discovery that this heat domain protein host the dominant polyglutamine property that be the fundamental basis of hd pathogenesis .
in hd patient and in accurate genetic replica , hd cag knock - in mouse , the dominant mutation specifically affect the major population of neuron in the striatum , without impair huntingtin 's essential activity in embryonic development [ 50 - 53 ] .
indeed , homozygous hd patient make no wild - type huntingtin , and , in the mouse , a single mutant hdh allele 's worth of mutant huntingtin can fully rescue huntingtin deficiency embryonic phenotype [ 15 , 51 ] .
the quest to understand the hd mechanism , therefore , be aim at delineate the huntingtin activity that may explain the striatal cell specificity of the polyglutamine mutant version of huntingtin .
one hypothesis be that huntingtin be normally involve in gene transcription , a propose for nrsf / rest mediate bdnf expression [ 54 ] .
now , our finding that huntingtin can be absolutely necessary for the appropriate regulation of gene with dynamic expression pattern in vivo , provide a compelling reason to elucidate the cellular machinery that be necessary for huntingtin mediate gene regulation .
conclusion
our finding indicate that huntingtin be require for proper patterning of the epiblast during early embryogenesis , for proper anterior streak and node formation , primitive streak progression , paraxial mesoderm and head fold formation , as well a for the proper restriction of transiently express growth and transcription factor gene .
knowledge of the molecular basis of these change in huntingtin deficient embryo should facilitate the identification of the cellular pathway that be dependent on huntingtin activity .
these will be important for implicate candidate to be assess in the extraembryonic signal that determine anterior streak progression in the develop embryo and in delineate the dominant activity of the polyglutamine tract in huntingtin that determine the striatal specificity of hd .
method
mouse and genotyping
the hdhex4 / 5 mouse carry a pgkneo insertion / replacement inactivate mutation in the mouse hd gene homologue have be describe previously [ 10 ] .
the experiment be conduct in accordance with an iacuc approve protocol , through the mgh subcommittee on animal research .
mutant hdhex4 / 5 / hdhex4 / 5 and normal littermates be obtain in time pregnancy from mating of hdhex4 / 5 / hdh + heterozygote , genotyped by pcr assay , a describe [ 10 ] .
the day of plug be take to be e0.5 .
embryo that be morphologically normal be pool separately from morphologically mutant embryo for analysis .
nodal expression be determine in embryo from mating of hdhex4 / 5 / hdh + ; ndllacz / ndl + compound heterozygote genotyped by pcr assay a describe in [ 29 ] .
whole mount and section in situ hybridization and β - gal staining
after dissection in pb , embryo be fix overnight in 4 % paraformaldehyde at 4 °c .
for section , decidua fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde , be embed in paraffin and section at 7 micron .
rna in situ hybridization be perform a describe previously [ 55 ] .
nodal . lacz expression be assess by β - galactosidase staining a report [ 29 ] , on embryo post fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde .
embryo be mount in 80 % glycerol before be photograph .
the huntingtin deficient phenotype be fully penetrant at each of the stage that be assess [ 10 ] .
three to six embryo be evaluate for each marker , with every embryo exhibit the same mutant phenotype in each case .
alkaline phosphatase staining of primordial germ cell ( pcgs )
after dissection , embryo be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde briefly and wash and store in 1 × pb / 0.1 % tx - 100 at 4 °c .
embryo be wash once with tris - maleate buffer ( 25 mm tris - maleate , ph = 9.0 , 0.8 mm mgcl2 ) and be subsequently incubate in alkaline phosphatase staining solution ( 25 mm tris - maleate , ph = 9.0 , 0.8 mm mgcl2 , 0.4 mg / ml alpha - naphthyl phosphate , 1 mg / ml fast - red ) .
stain embryo be wash in 1 × pb / 0.1 % tx - 100 .
whole embryo culture
embryo be dissect at e7.5 and wash in dmem .
embryo be then culture individually in 1 ml of culture medium ( 75 % immediately centrifuge rat serum and 25 % dmem [ 56 ] ) for 24 hour while rotate in a 37 °c incubator in 5 % co2 .
embryo be then fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde for analysis .
abbreviation
ave , anterior visceral endoderm ; hd , huntington 's disease gene ; hd , huntington 's disease ; hdh , mouse hd gene homologue ; pcgs , primordial germ cell
author ' contribution
jmw , tc , ph - m and md perform whole mount and in situ hybridization assay .
mem and rc contribute to the conception of this study .
jmw , tc , ph - m and mem draft the manuscript and rc contribute to it finalization .
all author read and approve the final manuscript .
acknowledgement
we be grateful to drs. a. gossler , j. darnell , jr. , j rossant , g. keller , s. orkin , g. martin , t. yamaguchi , a. mcmahon , r. maas , k. , muneoka , a. simeone , hamada h. and c. niehrs for the generous gift of clone and antibody reagent and dr. e. robertson for ndllacz mouse .
we would like to thank kathy molyneaux for her helpful suggestion and technical assistance .
we also thank vladimir vrbanac , janice espinola and edith toral lopez for assistance with animal husbandry .
we also thank the member of the macdonald lab for helpful discussion during the completion of this work .
this work be support by the ninds grant ns32765 and ns16367 , and grant from the foundation for the care and cure of huntington 's disease and with the support of the huntington 's disease society of america coalition for the cure and the hereditary disease foundation .
juliana m. woda be the recipient of the milton wexler postdoctoral fellowship from the hereditary disease foundation .
a katp channel - dependent pathway within α cell regulate glucagon release from both rodent and human islet of langerhans
abstract
glucagon , secrete from pancreatic islet α cell , stimulate gluconeogenesis and liver glycogen breakdown .
the mechanism regulate glucagon release be debate , and variously attribute to neuronal control , paracrine control by neighbour β cell , or to an intrinsic glucose sense by the α cell themselves .
we examine hormone secretion and ca2+ response of α and β cell within intact rodent and human islet .
glucose - dependent suppression of glucagon release persist when paracrine gaba or zn2+ signalling be block , but be reverse by low concentration ( 1 – 20 μm ) of the atp - sensitive k+ ( katp ) channel opener diazoxide , which have no effect on insulin release or β cell response .
this effect be prevent by the katp channel blocker tolbutamide ( 100 μm ) .
high diazoxide concentration ( ≥ 30 μm ) decrease glucagon and insulin secretion , and α - and β - cell ca2+ response , in parallel .
in the absence of glucose , tolbutamide at low concentration ( < 1 μm ) stimulate glucagon secretion , whereas high concentration ( > 10 μm ) be inhibitory .
in the presence of a maximally inhibitory concentration of tolbutamide ( 0.5 mm ) , glucose have no additional suppressive effect .
downstream of the katp channel , inhibition of voltage - gate na+ ( ttx ) and n - type ca2+ channel ( ω - conotoxin ) , but not l - type ca2+ channel ( nifedipine ) , prevent glucagon secretion .
both the n - type ca2+ channel and α - cell exocytosis be inactivate at depolarise membrane potential .
rodent and human glucagon secretion be regulate by an α - cell katp channel - dependent mechanism .
we propose that elevate glucose reduce electrical activity and exocytosis via depolarisation - induce inactivation of ion channel involve in action potential firing and secretion .
author summary
glucagon be a critical regulator of glucose homeostasis .
it major action be to mobilize glucose from the liver .
glucagon secretion from α cell of the pancreatic islet of langerhans be suppress by elevate blood sugar , a response that be often perturb in diabetes .
much work have focus on the regulation of α - cell glucagon secretion by neuronal factor and by paracrine factor from neighbour cell , include the important islet hormone insulin .
in contrast , we provide evidence in support of a direct effect of glucose on α cell within intact rodent and human islet .
notably , our work implicate an α - cell glucose - sense pathway similar to that find in insulin - secrete β cell , involve closure of atp - dependent k+ channel in the presence of glucose .
furthermore , we find that membrane depolarisation result in inhibition of na+ and ca2+ channel activity and α - cell exocytosis .
thus , we propose that elevate blood glucose reduce α - cell electrical activity and glucagon secretion by inactivate the ion channel involve in action potential firing and secretion .
introduction
blood glucose level be under the control of two hormone release from the pancreatic islet of langerhans .
islet β cell secrete insulin when glucose be high , decrease glucose production by the liver and increase glucose storage in multiple tissue .
regulate insulin secretion be relatively well understand , involve the metabolic stimulation of electrical activity , ca2+ entry , and exocytosis [ 1 ] .
islet α cell secrete glucagon in response to decrease blood glucose , whereas elevate glucose level suppress glucagon release .
glucagon be the principal factor stimulate glucose production by the liver .
in diabetes , baseline glucagon release be elevated , and glucagon secretion in the low - glucose condition be blunt [ 2 – 4 ] .
these effect contribute to chronic hyperglycaemia and to an increase risk for acute hypoglycaemic event .
the mechanism regulate glucagon secretion be poorly understand and remain hotly debate [ 5 ] .
glucagon release in rodent may be regulate by paracrine signal , include γ - aminobutyric acid ( gaba ) [ 6 , 7 ] , zn2+ [ 8 ] , and insulin [ 9 , 10 ] .
conversely , glucose may suppress glucagon secretion through a direct effect on α - cell activity [ 11 – 14 ] .
there be also study suggest that glucagon secretion be under hypothalamic control [ 15 , 16 ] .
human in vivo study provide conflict evidence regard the control of glucagon secretion by paracrine or intrinsic regulation of α cell [ 17 – 30 ] , and very little work have be do to examine this question in isolate human islet .
islet α cell express atp - dependent k+ ( katp ) channel [ 9 , 13 , 14 , 31 , 32 ] that can be close by atp [ 9 , 31 ] .
glucose increase intracellular free atp in α cell [ 8 , 10 ] , although report vary a to the ability of glucose to inhibit α - cell katp channel [ 13 , 31 , 33 ] .
evidence from sur1 − / − mouse implicate katp channel a regulator of glucagon release [ 13 , 34 , 35 ] .
however , because both α and β cell possess molecularly identical katp channel [ 36 , 37 ] , it be not clear how katp - mediate depolarisation would stimulate insulin secretion but suppress glucagon secretion .
the answer may lie in the downstream machinery regulate electrical activity and ca2+ entry .
unlike β cell , α cell possess a large voltage - dependent na+ current that be essential for glucagon release [ 14 , 33 ] .
we have previously propose that the depolarisation - induce inactivation of this channel contribute to the cessation of action potential firing [ 14 ] .
additionally , activation of voltage - dependent ca2+ channel ( vdccs ) be essential for ca2+ entry and α - cell function [ 38 , 39 ] .
accordingly , the α - cell intracellular ca2+ ( [ ca2+ ] i ) oscillation ( reflect α - cell electrical activity ) be suppress in parallel with glucagon release by glucose [ 40 ] .
multiple vdccs regulate glucagon release [ 14 , 41 – 43 ] , although the n - type channel appear to be particularly important for glucagon release evoke by hypoglycaemia alone [ 33 , 44 , 45 ] , at least in mouse islet .
this be in contrast to the β cell in which the l - type vdcc functionally predominate [ 46 ] .
we have now compare insulin and glucagon release and α - and β - cell ca2+ response in intact mouse , rat , and human pancreatic islet .
we show that glucose retain the ability to suppress glucagon release from isolate islet during blockade of the zn2+ and gaba paracrine pathway , and in the absence of stimulate insulin secretion or β - cell ca2+ response .
thus we now provide evidence in both rodent and human islet support the direct ( intrinsic ) glucose regulation of glucagon release from pancreatic α cell .
result
glucose can regulate glucagon secretion directly
to examine a role for gaba and zn2+ a paracrine mediator of glucagon secretion , we examine the ability of the gabaa receptor antagonist sr - 95531 and zn2+ chelation with ca2+ - edta to prevent the glucose - dependent suppression of glucagon release .
glucose , at concentration ( 7 and 8.3 mm ) just above the threshold for insulin release ( see below ) , suppress glucagon secretion from isolate mouse ( figure 1a ) and rat islet ( figure 1b ) by 60 % ( n = 15 , p < 0.001 ) and 57 % ( n = 10 , p < 0.001 ) , respectively .
in both mouse and rat islet , the ability of glucose to inhibit glucagon secretion persist in the presence of ca2+ - edta ( 43 % and 48 % , n = 10 , p < 0.001 , respectively ) and sr - 95531 ( 31 % and 46 % , n = 8 and 10 , p < 0.01 and p < 0.001 , respectively ) ( figure 1 ) .
it be worth note that in the presence of the gabaa antagonist , glucagon secretion be increase under both low - and high - glucose condition , and furthermore , glucose be approximately 50 % less effective in suppress glucagon release from mouse islet ( 31 % versus 60 % , respectively ) ( figure 1a ) .
additionally , somatostatin release from pancreatic δ cell be suggest to be a potential paracrine regulator of glucagon secretion .
however , the somatostatin receptor 2 ( sstr - 2 ) antagonist prl - 2903 do not interfere with the ability of glucose ( at 3 and 7 mm ) to inhibit glucagon secretion from mouse islet [ 47 ] .
like the gabaa receptor antagonist , however , prl - 2903 increase glucagon secretion in low - glucose condition [ 47 ] .
thus , although the present data do not entirely rule out these pathway a modulators of glucagon secretion , glucose be clearly able to suppress glucagon secretion independently of these .
α - cell katp channel regulate glucagon secretion
we next examine glucagon and insulin secretion during pharmacological manipulation of katp channel activity .
here we have examine the role of katp channel in intact islet by apply an indirect , but minimally invasive , technique .
it would have be difficult ( if not impossible ) to study the effect of glucose on α - cell katp channel activity use the patch - clamp technique because of the smallness of the α - cell resting conductance ( 0.15 n / pf in the absence of glucose , of which two third be attributable to katp channel ) [ 13 ] .
we have instead use increase concentration of diazoxide and tolbutamide to “ titrate ” the influence of katp channel activity on α - cell [ ca2+ ] i and glucagon secretion .
increase concentration of the katp channel activator diazoxide demonstrate that moderate activation of katp channel ( 0.3 – 10 μm diazoxide ) relieve the suppression of glucagon secretion from both mouse ( figure 2a ) and rat ( figure 2b ) islet .
stimulation of glucagon release be half - maximal at approximately 1 μm diazoxide , which be well below that require to inhibit insulin release , suggest that “ re-activation ” of glucagon release be not secondary to reduce β - cell secretion .
increase the concentration of diazoxide beyond 10 μm inhibit glucagon secretion in parallel with an inhibition of insulin release from both mouse and rat islet ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
when instead apply in the presence of 1 mm glucose ( at which concentration glucagon secretion be stimulate ) , increase diazoxide produce a monotonic inhibition of glucagon secretion ( figure 2c ) with a half - maximal inhibitory concentration ( ic50 ) that be much low than what be see under high - glucose condition ( ∼ 2 μm versus ∼ 50 μm ) .
in the complete absence of glucose , when katp channel be expect to be open , the katp channel antagonist tolbutamide also produce a biphasic effect on glucagon release .
augmentation of glucagon secretion be see at tolbutamide concentration of up to 1 μm ( stimulation be half - maximal at 0.1 μm ) , whereas inhibition be observe at high concentration ( figure 2d ) .
importantly , in the presence of a maximally inhibitory tolbutamide concentration ( 0.5 mm ) , glucose be unable to produce any further inhibition of glucagon release ( figure 3a ) .
these data be inconsistent with the idea that β - cell secretion be the primary inhibitor of α - cell glucagon release .
they also suggest that glucagon secretion be maximal within a “ window ” of intermediate katp channel activity .
to far investigate the role of α - cell katp channel a regulator of glucagon secretion , we study islet from kir6.2y12x mouse , which posses a tyr12stop mutation in the kcnj11 gene , lead to premature termination of the katp channel pore - form subunit [ 48 ] .
at low - glucose concentration , glucagon secretion from the kir6.2y12x islet be already suppress compare with that from wild - type islet ( figure 3b ) , similar to the effect of glucose stimulation or pharmacological katp channel inhibition observe in figure 2d and 3a .
consistent with a recent report [ 49 ] , high glucose level stimulate glucagon secretion , perhaps due to a direct effect of metabolism on secretion [ 33 ] .
in wild - type islet , glucagon secretion exhibit a nadir at 5 mm glucose , and glucagon secretion at 20 mm glucose be 40 % high than at 5 mm glucose .
insulin secretion in the kir6.2y12x islet be elevate at low - glucose concentration ( figure 3c ) , whereas glucose - stimulate insulin secretion be blunt .
it be notable that the increase in glucagon release from the kir6.2y12x islet be coincident with increase insulin secretion , reinforce the view that inhibition of glucagon be not mediate by a factor release by the β cell .
furthermore , in control islet , the inhibition of glucagon secretion be maximal at a concentration of glucose ( 5 mm ) that be without stimulatory action on insulin secretion .
we next examine the function of α and β cell in situ by monitor the [ ca2+ ] i response of single cell within intact mouse islet .
these be functionally identify by their [ ca2+ ] i response to 0.5 , 2 , and 11 mm glucose [ 50 ] .
glucose stimulation suppress the [ ca2+ ] i response of α cell by 51 ± 3 % ( n = 63 cell in 15 islet , p < 0.001 ) ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
the suppressive effect of glucose be alleviate ( to 101 ± 11 % of initial value ) by application of 2 μm diazoxide ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
this concentration of diazoxide be similar to that which produce maximal stimulation of glucagon secretion and much ( ∼ 15-fold ) low than necessary to inhibit insulin secretion ( figure 2b ) or β - cell [ ca2+ ] i response to glucose ( figure 4a ) .
katp channel regulate human α - cell activity
little work have be do to examine the mechanism of glucose - regulate glucagon secretion from isolate human islet [ 51 ] .
glucagon and insulin secretion from islet isolate from healthy donor be examine .
similar to above , glucagon secretion from human islet be suppress by 58 ± 3 % ( n = 9 , p < 0.05 ) upon raise the glucose concentration from 0 to 10 mm .
tolbutamide ( 200 μm ) inhibit glucagon release by 43 ± 14 % ( n = 7 , p < 0.05 ) .
at the same time , insulin secretion be increase 6.4 - and 4.4-fold by glucose and tolbutamide stimulation , respectively ( figure 5a ) .
moderate re-activation of katp channel with 2 μm diazoxide antagonize the glucose - induce suppression of glucagon release ( n = 7 , p < 0.01 ) ( figure 5b ) .
a 10-fold high concentration of diazoxide have significantly less stimulatory effect ( p < 0.001 versus 2 μm diazoxide ) , and in the presence of 200 μm diazoxide , glucagon secretion be not different from that observe in the absence of the katp channel activator .
importantly , the low concentration of diazoxide ( 2 μm ) , which produce the strong stimulation of glucagon secretion , have no inhibitory effect on glucose - stimulate insulin secretion ( n = 5 ) , whereas 20 and 200 μm produce partial or complete inhibition of insulin secretion .
the gabaa receptor antagonist sr95531 have no effect on glucose - induce inhibition of glucagon secretion from human islet , and whole - cell voltage - clamp measurement indicate that human α cell , unlike human β and δ cell , express few if any gabaa receptor cl − channel ( m. braun , r. ramracheya , and p. rorsman , unpublished data ) .
examination of the ca2+ response of single α and β cell within intact human islet demonstrate that glucose decrease [ ca2+ ] i by 62 ± 3 % ( n = 42 cell in 7 islet , p < 0.001 ) in α cell , and that this effect could be completely reverse by 2 μm diazoxide ( figure 6a and 6b ) .
furthermore , the re-activation of α - cell [ ca2+ ] i response by diazoxide could be prevent by application of 100 μm tolbutamide , confirm the role of katp channel ( figure 6c ) .
an analysis of the dose – response relationship to diazoxide demonstrate a maximally effective concentration of 1.7 μm ( figure 6d and 6e ; n = 38 cell in 9 islet ) , far below the concentration necessary to block β - cell response ( figure 6d ) .
increase in diazoxide above 20 μm block the [ ca2+ ] i response of α cell and β cell in parallel , consistent with the effect on glucagon and insulin release .
na+ channel regulate low - glucose – stimulate glucagon secretion
the above data suggest that glucose - dependent inhibition of α - cell katp channel be involve in the suppression of glucagon secretion .
it be not clear however , how katp channel inhibition and membrane depolarisation result in suppression of secretion .
unlike in β cell , α - cell na+ channel be active in the physiological range of membrane potential .
previous work from our group suggest that the voltage - dependent inactivation of na+ channel , which in mouse α cell be half - maximal at − 42 mv [ 43 ] , contribute to cessation of electrical activity upon α - cell depolarisation [ 14 ] .
we thus use the voltage - dependent na+ channel antagonist tetrodotoxin ( ttx ) to test a role for these channel in α - cell function and glucagon secretion .
ttx ( 0.1 μg / ml ) suppress glucagon release from mouse islet by 56 ± 5 % ( n = 10 , p < 0.001 ) under low - glucose condition ( figure 7a ) .
this effect of ttx in the low - glucose condition be similar to what we observe with high - glucose stimulation alone .
with ttx present , glucose be without further inhibitory action , suggest that glucose inhibit glucagon secretion through a na+ channel - dependent mechanism .
ttx have no effect on glucose - stimulate insulin secretion in mouse islet ( figure 7a ) ; again suggestive of a direct rather than indirect effect on α cell .
in accordance with this , application of 0.1 μg / ml ttx to mouse islet reversibly abolish the α - cell [ ca2+ ] i response evoke by low - glucose concentration ( figure 7b and 7c ; n = 18 cell in 4 islet ) , but have no effect on β - cell [ ca2+ ] i ( unpublished data ) .
n - type ca2+ channel mediate the ca2+ influx that trigger glucagon secretion and α - cell exocytosis
downstream of na+ channel activation , the opening of vdccs allow ca2+ into α cell , trigger the exocytosis of glucagon - contain vesicle .
we apply whole - cell patch - clamp recording to establish the α - cell ca2+ channel complement .
the integrated whole - cell ca2+ current measure during 50 - m depolarisation from − 70 mv to 0 mv amount to 6.2 ± 0.8 pc ( n = 15 ) under control condition , 2.6 ± 0.8 pc ( n = 10 ; p < 0.05 ) in the presence of 50 μm nifedipine , and 4.1 ± 0.5 pc ( n = 12 ; p < 0.01 ) in the presence of 1 μm ω - conotoxin .
thus , l - and n - type ca2+ channel account for 58 % and 34 % of the α - cell ca2+ current , respectively .
figure 8a compare glucagon secretion at 1 and 20 mm glucose under control condition and in the presence of 100 nm ω - conotoxin and 20 μm nifedipine , respectively .
we find that whereas the l - type channel blocker nifedipine have no effect on glucagon release at 1 or 20 mm glucose , the n - type ca2+ channel blocker ω - conotoxin inhibit the release of the hormone to a level similar to that of high glucose , tolbutamide , and ttx .
furthermore , glucose exert no additional inhibitory action in the presence of ω - conotoxin .
thus , glucagon secretion stimulate by low - glucose level depend principally on ca2+ influx through n - type channel , although these only account for one third of the ca2+ current .
we confirm this ca2+ channel dependence by conduct high - resolution single - cell capacitance measurement of exocytosis ( figure 8b ) .
exocytosis elicit by 500 - m step depolarisation from − 70 to 0 mv average approximately 150 ff ( correspond to the fusion of ∼ 75 secretory granule with the plasma membrane [ 43 ] ) under control condition ( ctrl ) .
this response be not significantly affect by 50 μm nifedipine ( nif ) , but be nearly abolish by 1 μm ω - conotoxin ( ω - con ; figure 8c ) .
inactivation of n - type ca2+ channel underlie glucose inhibition of glucagon secretion
we next examine the mechanism by which n - type channel regulate glucagon release in response to membrane depolarisation / hyperpolarisation in mouse α cell .
non–l - type ( isradipine - resistant ) ca2+ current be elicit by step depolarization to 0 mv in the absence ( black ) or presence ( red ) of 1 μm ω - conotoxin following a 200 - m conditioning pulse to − 70 mv ( figure 9a ) or + 10 mv ( figure 9b ) .
it be evident that the ω - conotoxin – sensitive component be abolish by the + 10 mv conditioning pulse .
figure 9c summarize the relationship between the conditioning voltage and the ca2+ current amplitude in the absence ( open square ) and presence ( circle ) of ω - conotoxin ( upper panel ) .
the ω - conotoxin – sensitive n - type ca2+ current component be show in the low panel of figure 9c , and undergo voltage - dependent inactivation that be half - maximal ( v0.5 ) at − 31 ± 6 mv ( n = 6 ) .
a residual , ω - conotoxin – insensitive ca2+ current also appear to undergo voltage - dependent inactivation ( figure 9c ) .
this account for less than 15 % of the inactivate current , and may be attributable to t - type ca2+ channel that have be report in α cell [ 14 ] .
in figure 9d , we examine the voltage - dependent activation of α - cell exocytosis use step - wise depolarisation ( 500 m ) from − 70 mv to between − 50 and 20 mv ( figure 9d ) .
the capacitance response versus voltage relationship ( figure 9e ) demonstrate a marked increase in the capacitance response between − 10 and 10 mv .
thus any reduction in action potential amplitude within this range would severely attenuate α - cell exocytosis .
the voltage - dependent inactivation of α - cell exocytosis be examine next ( figure 9f ) .
cell be hold at conditioning potential between − 70 and − 30 mv , after which exocytosis be elicit by depolarisation to 0 mv .
exocytosis stimulate from the − 30 mv conditioning potential be only 25 % of that elicit from − 70 mv ( figure 9g ) .
this voltage - dependent decline in exocytosis be attributable to the voltage - dependent inactivation of the n - type ca2+ channel .
the fact that inhibition of exocytosis appear to occur at more - negative voltage than that document for the inactivation of the n - type ca2+ channel can be attribute to the brevity of the conditioning pulse in figure 9a – 9c ( 200 m ) , whereas in figure 9g the holding potential be varied .
discussion
regulate glucagon secretion from pancreatic α cell be a major component of the counter-regulatory response to hypoglycaemia .
diabetes mellitus be associated with defect of glucagon secretion that exacerbate the consequence of impaired insulin secretion [ 2 – 4 ] .
the mechanism regulate the release of this important hormone be incompletely understand and currently the source of much debate .
in the present study we examine glucagon secretion and the [ ca2+ ] i response of in situ α cell of isolate rodent and human islet .
we far characterise the ca2+ current and capacitance change of single isolated α cell , to dissect the mechanism regulate downstream control of glucagon release .
previous work with genetic mouse model , include sur1 − / − [ 13 , 34 , 35 ] and kir6.2 − / − [ 16 ] mouse , suggest an important role for katp channel in glucagon secretion .
three piece of evidence argue for the importance of islet katp channel in glucagon secretion .
first , introduction of the tyr12stop mutation into the katp channel subunit in the kir6.2y12x islet result in suppression of glucagon secretion at low - glucose level and cause loss of glucose - induce inhibition of secretion .
second , the katp channel inhibitor tolbutamide when apply at maximally effective concentration inhibit glucagon secretion from isolate islet .
third , a low dose of the katp channel activator diazoxide restore α - cell ca2+ response and glucagon secretion in high - glucose condition .
what be not immediately clear from these argument , and from the previous sur1 − / − genetic study , be whether glucagon be be control by the α - cell or the β - cell katp channel , a the latter may regulate α - cell function indirectly via paracrine pathway .
we therefore examine insulin and glucagon secretion , and the ca2+ response of α and β cell in situ in parallel to determine the functional relationship between these cell .
furthermore , we measure the glucagon response to glucose during blockade of putative paracrine signalling pathway .
study on rat islet support an important role for paracrine signal a regulator of glucagon release [ 33 , 52 , 53 ] , whereas the case for paracrine regulation of glucagon secretion from mouse and human α cell be less clear [ 9 , 10 , 14 , 17 – 21 , 27 ] .
although it be clear that zn2+ , gaba , and somatostatin can exert a paracrine control of glucagon secretion under certain condition , the data show here firmly establish that glucose can suppress glucagon secretion independently of these pathway a demonstrate in figure 1 ( and in [ 47 ] ) .
furthermore , and in agreement with recently publish result [ 47 ] , maximal inhibition of glucagon release occur at level equal to or low than 5 mm glucose , whereas the stimulation of insulin release require glucose level great than 5 mm ( figure 3 ) , suggest that product of β - cell secretion be not require for suppression of glucagon release .
this conclusion be far underpin by the significant discordance between insulin and glucagon release , and the β - and α - cell ca2+ response , under several condition : ( 1 ) low dos of the katp channel opener diazoxide that stimulate glucagon secretion while not affect insulin release ; ( 2 ) high dos of diazoxide at which suppression of β - cell secretion would be expect to elevate glucagon release ; ( 3 ) in the kir6.2y12x islet ; and ( 4 ) in response to the na+ channel blocker ttx .
therefore , our data argue that glucagon - produce α cell possess an intrinsic mechanism for regulation by glucose and that involve katp channel .
this be at variance with the data of liu et al. [ 12 ] who report that tolbutamide have no effect on [ ca2+ ] i in single , isolate α cell , but in agreement with the conclusion of ostenson et al. [ 54 ] , that sulfonylurea can inhibit glucagon secretion by a direct , non-paracrine mechanism .
on the basis of our finding , we propose that α - cell glucagon secretion occur within a narrow window of intermediate katp channel activity ( and thus membrane potential ) ( figure 10 ) .
that is , if the α cell be either too hyperpolarised ( maximal katp activity ) or too depolarise ( maximal katp inhibition ) , then glucagon secretion be suppress .
this be support by the biphasic effect of both diazoxide and tolbutamide .
whereas the former ( in high glucose ) bring the α cell in a dose - dependent manner through the membrane potential window support glucagon secretion in the depolarise ( low katp ) to hyperpolarised ( high katp ) direction ( figure 10c ) , the latter ( in zero glucose ) bring the α cell through the window in the opposite direction ( from hyperpolarised to depolarise ) ( figure 10b ) .
thus , glucose likely lead to the suppression of glucagon secretion by depolarise the α - cell membrane potential above the range that support glucagon secretion ( figure 10a ) .
indeed , in some ( but not all , see [ 55 ] ) study , glucose be find to depolarize mouse and rat α cell and reduce action potential amplitude [ 13 , 52 ] .
it be interesting that whereas low concentration of glucose be without stimulatory effect , tolbutamide ( 0.1 – 1 μm ) stimulate glucagon release beyond that observe at zero glucose .
thus , small depolarisation ( a previously document for arginine [ 13 ] ) exert a positive “ chronotropic ” effect in α cell and thus stimulate glucagon release .
the fact that glucose do not share this ability indicate that the depolarisation produce by 1 mm glucose result in sufficient inactivation of the current to balance any increase in action potential frequency .
previous human study have employ pharmacological katp channel antagonist [ 23 , 24 ] or agonist [ 25 , 26 ] to examine the regulation of glucagon release in vivo .
these be interpret with the assumption that pharmacological katp modulation only affect the β cell , and that any change in glucagon release be therefore secondary to altered β - cell function .
our data establish that katp channel modulation have dramatic and direct effect on glucagon secretion and ca2+ signalling in human α cell under condition in which insulin secretion be unaffected .
thus , the in vivo manipulation of α - cell katp channel activity in the above study may well have involve direct effect on α - cell function that contribute to the observe change in glucagon release .
the importance of the human katp channel pathway for glucagon release be nicely highlight by a study investigate the effect of the common glu23lys ( e23k ) polymorphism of the kir6.2 subunit of the katp channel on insulin and glucagon secretion in non-diabetic human patient [ 29 ] .
this variant of the channel lead to a slight decrease in the atp sensitivity of the channel .
the functional significance of this be examine by compare hormone release during hyperglycaemic clamp in individual carry the polymorphism or not .
although insulin secretion in homozygous glu23lys individual be not different from control , glucose - induce suppression of glucagon release be blunt [ 29 ] .
this become understandable in light of the effect of diazoxide on isolate human islet ( figure 4 and 5 ) .
half - maximal activation of katp channel occur at diazoxide concentration of 20 – 100 μm ( depending on the intracellular atp level ) [ 56 ] .
if the glu23lys polymorphism increase katp channel activity to the same extent a 0.3 – 1.5 μm diazoxide , the concentration at which an effect on glucagon release be first see , then the effect will be very difficult to detect with electrophysiology , perhaps explain why some study have fail to detect a functional effect of the polymorphism ( review in [ 57 ] ) .
nevertheless , such small change can have significant biological effect , a illustrate by the glucagon release data , and may contribute to pathological state such a impair glucose tolerance and diabetes .
thus , the reduce ability of glucose to inhibit glucagon secretion in individual carry the glu23lys variant of the katp channel likely result from the failure of these channel to undergo complete inhibition in response to glucose .
we have propose that glucagon secretion be stimulate within a window of intermediate α - cell katp channel activity , and that glucagon release be suppress by either increase or decrease in katp channel activity .
how be this accomplish ?
briefly , we suggest that this window be the result of ( 1 ) the ability of intermediate katp channel activity to support regenerative electrical response through the activation of voltage - dependent na+ and n - type ca2+ channel ( grey in figure 10 ) ; ( 2 ) the failure of the na+ and ca2+ channel to activate when α cell be hyperpolarised by the opening of a major fraction of katp channel ( above the grey in figure 10 ) ; and ( 3 ) the voltage - dependent inactivation of the na+ [ 14 ] and n - type ca2+ channel when katp channel be close and the α - cell membrane potential be depolarise ( below the grey in figure 10 ) .
thus , the differential responsiveness of α and β cell to diazoxide do not result from differential sensitivity of the katp channel in these cell , but to the downstream response to titrate katp channel activity .
one important difference between mouse α and β cell be that whereas the latter rely exclusively on voltage - gate ca2+ channel for the upstroke of the action potential , glucagon - produce α cell be equip with voltage - gate na+ channel .
these channel undergo voltage - dependent inactivation at voltage more positive than − 50 mv [ 14 ] .
this will reduce the action potential amplitude , and indeed it be report that glucose reduce the peak voltage in α cell from + 11 mv to − 1 mv [ 13 ] .
this will in itself result in an approximately 35 % reduction of exocytosis , which be steeply dependent on voltage between − 10 and + 10 mv ( figure 9e ) .
the functional significance of this be illustrate by the observation that glucagon secretion and α - cell ca2+ response at low - glucose concentration be suppress by the na+ channel blocker ttx .
the exact ion channel complement of human α cell remain to be establish .
however , the fact that glucagon secretion from human islet show the same bell - shape diazoxide concentration dependence a in mouse islet suggest that the depolarization - induce inactivation of ion channel involve in α - cell regenerative electrical activity underlie glucose - induce suppression of glucagon secretion in man as well .
although l - type vdccs mediate the majority of ca2+ current in α cell , this work and previous study [ 33 , 44 , 45 ] demonstrate that it be the n - type ( ω - conotoxin – sensitive ) vdccs that mediate the ca2+ influx necessary for α - cell exocytosis and glucagon secretion under hypoglycaemic condition .
we now show that the α - cell n - type vdccs be also subject to voltage - dependent inactivation at voltage more positive than − 50 mv and furthermore that this be associate with reduce exocytotic capacity .
it be pertinent that n - type vdcc - deficient mouse exhibit reduce serum glucagon level and improve glucose tolerance despite a parallel reduction in plasma insulin [ 44 ] .
although ca2+ influx through l - type ca2+ channel do not appear to contribute much to glucagon secretion under the experimental condition use in this study , these channel become the predominant conduit of ca2+ entry in the presence of agent increase camp [ 41 ] ( unpublished data ) .
the mechanism underlie this switch in ca2+ channel dependence remain obscure , but may depend on the strength of depolarisation because glucagon secretion stimulate by strong depolarisation with increase k+ in combination with katp channel block can be prevent by inhibition of l - type ca2+ channel [ 47 ] .
we finally point out that the model we propose here for the control of glucagon secretion share many feature with what be know about the metabolic control of insulin secretion .
this in turn mean that process that interfere with the ability of , for example , glucose to stimulate insulin secretion will have the opposite effect on glucagon secretion .
this would provide a simple explanation for the fact that both insulin and glucagon secretion become perturb in diabetes and why oversecretion of glucagon exacerbate the hyperglycaemic effect of insufficient insulin secretion .
material and method
islet isolation and culture .
islet from female nmri mouse be isolate by collagenase digestion and culture in rpmi - 1640 medium ( 5 mm glucose ) at 37 ° c and 5 % co2 for 2 − 24 h prior to secretion or intracellular ca2+ assay .
for single - cell study , islet be disperse in a ca2+ - free buffer and plat in 35 - mm plastic dish .
generation of the kir6.2y12x mouse , which possess a tyr12stop mutation in the kcnj11 gene on a balb / c background , have be describe previously [ 48 ] .
this result in nonfunctional katp channel in both α and β cell .
these animal be not overtly diabetic , exhibit normal fasting glucose , but be glucose intolerant ( r. cox , unpublished data ) .
for these experiment , age - and weight - match wild - type c3hb mouse be use a control because the kir6.2y12x mouse be back - cross into this background over several generation .
human islet from four healthy donor be obtain from the oxford drwf human islet isolation facility .
experiment be perform in duplicate or triplicate use islet from each donor .
human islet be culture in rpmi - 1640 ( 10 mm glucose ) at 37 ° c and 5 % co2 , and experiment be perform within 48 h of isolation .
intracellular ca2+ measurement .
intact islet be load with fluo - 4 - am ( 1 μm ) and fura red ( 5 μm ) in 0.5 mm glucose buffer ( see below ) with 0.01 % pluronic acid for 30 min at 37 °c .
islet be fix with a wide - bore holding pipette within a continuously superfused and temperature - control ( 37 °c ) bath on an axioskop 2 f - mot microscope ( carl zeiss , http://www.zeiss.com ) .
the perfusion buffer contain ( in mm ) : 140 nacl ; 3.6 kcl ; 2 nahco3 ; 0.5 nah2po4 ; 0.5 mgso4 ; 5 hepes ; 2.5 cacl2 ; 0.5 , 3 , or 11 glucose ; ( ph 7.4 with naoh ) .
laser scan confocal microscopy be perform use an lsm 510meta system ( zeiss ) .
excitation be with a 488 - nm argon laser , and emit fluorescence be collect through 500 – 550 - nm and 650 – 710 - nm band - pas filter for the fluo - 4 and fura red ( furar ) signal , respectively .
increase in intracellular ca2+ be display a upward deflection .
image be acquire at 1.5 - s interval .
individual cell be select a region of interest , and the average ratio intensity ( ri = [ fluo + 1 ] / [ furar + 20 ] × 128 + 1 ) of these be analyse over time with origin v7.0220 ( originlab corporation , http://www.originlab.com ) .
prior to experimental recording , islet be perfuse for 10 min with the appropriate control solution , and ca2+ response be monitor periodically during this time to ensure that response ( or lack thereof ) be stable prior to begin the experimental recording .
ca2+ response be determine by baseline subtraction and calculation of the integrate response ( i.e. , the area under the curve ) .
the slope of this response , report here a arbitrary unit ( au ) , be calculate for the final 60 % – 90 % of a give treatment period to allow for equilibration of the response .
hormone release .
insulin and glucagon secretion be measure a describe elsewhere [ 45 ] .
briefly , batch of ten freshly isolate islet be pre-incubated in 1 ml of krebs – ringer buffer ( krb ) supplement with 1 mm glucose for 30 min ( rodent ) or 1 h ( human ) follow by 1 - h incubation in 1 ml of test krb medium supplement a indicate .
for experiment in which zn2+ be chelate or gabaa receptor be antagonise ( figure 1 ) , the ca2+ - edta and sr - 95531 , respectively , be present in both the pre-incubation and test solution .
when extracellular kcl be increase , nacl be correspondingly reduce to maintain iso - osmolarity .
single - cell capacitance and ion current measurement .
whole - cell current and exocytosis be record use an epc - 9 patch - clamp amplifier ( heka electronics , http://www.heka.com ) and pulse software ( version 8.50 ) .
single α cell be identify by their small size and na+ current inactivation property [ 58 ] .
this method be validate by combine the electrophysiological recording with subsequent immunostaining for glucagon and insulin .
the extracellular medium contain ( in mm ) : 118 nacl ; 20 tea - cl ( tetraethylammonium chloride ) ; 5.6 kcl ; 2.6 cacl2 ; 1.2 mgcl2 ; 5 hepes ( ph 7.4 with naoh ) ; and 5 glucose .
except for figure 8b and 8c , in which the standard whole - cell configuration be use , the electrophysiological measurement be conduct use the perforate patch technique , and the pipette solution contain ( in mm ) : 76 cs2so4 ; 10 nacl ; 10 kcl ; 1 mgcl2 ; and 5 hepes ( ph 7.35 with csoh ) .
exocytosis be monitor a change in α - cell capacitance use the software - base lock - in function of the pulse software .
the standard whole - cell measurement ( figure 8b and 8c ) be conduct use a pipette solution ( dialyze the cell interior ) consist of ( in mm ) 125 csoh ; 125 glutamate ; 10 cscl ; 10 nacl ; 1 mgcl2 ; 5 hepes ( ph 7.15 with koh ) ; 3 mg - atp ; and 25 μmol / l egta ( measure rest free ca2+ , ∼ 0.2 μmol / l ) .
pulse be apply at low frequency ( < 0.05 hz ) to allow the exocytotic capacity to recover fully between the pulse .
statistical analysis .
data be present a mean and standard error .
significance be examine by either the unpaired t - test or by multiple - comparison analysis of variance ( anova ) and post-test , a appropriate .
acknowledgement
pem be support initially the european foundation for the study of diabetes ( efsd ) / astrazeneca fellowship in islet biology and be currently an alberta heritage foundation for medical research scholar , canadian diabetes association scholar , and the canada research chair in islet biology .
pr be a wolfson royal society merit award research fellow .
abbreviation
[ ca2+ ] i - intracellular ca2+
furar - fura red
gaba - γ - aminobutyric acid
katp - atp - dependent k+ , ttx , tetrodotoxin
vdcc - voltage - dependent ca2+ channel
figure and table
figure 1
glucose suppress glucagon release independently of paracrine signal mediate by zn2+ or gaba .
( a ) glucagon release from isolate mouse islet be suppress by 60 % at 7 mm glucose compare with 1 mm ( fill bar ) .
glucose retain it suppressive effect on glucagon release under condition of zn2+ chelation ( ca2+ - edta ) ( open bar ) and antagonism of gabaa receptor ( sr - 95531 ) ( shade bar ) .
antagonism of gabaa receptor increase both basal and glucose - suppress glucagon secretion , suggest a paracrine role for gaba independent of the glucose effect .
( b ) a in ( a ) , but use rat islet .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with 1 mm glucose , or a indicate .
figure 2
glucagon release from isolate and intact mouse islet be regulate by a katp channel - dependent pathway
( a ) glucagon ( fill circle ) and insulin ( open circle ) secretion measure from mouse islet in the presence of 8.3 mm glucose at increase concentration of diazoxide .
( b ) a in ( a ) , but use rat islet .
the glucagon response to 1 mm glucose ( fill square ) and 100 μm tolbutamide ( fill triangle ) be indicate .
( c ) a in ( a ) , but in the presence of 1 mm glucose and only measure glucagon secretion .
( d ) a in ( a ) , but examine the effect of tolbutamide in the absence of glucose .
glucagon secretion in response to 20 mm glucose be indicate by the fill square .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with zero diazoxide ( a – c ) or zero tolbutamide ( d ) .
figure 3
tolbutamide and glucose effect be non-additive and glucagon response be alter in kir6.2y12x islet that express a truncate kir6.2 subunit
( a ) glucagon release from isolate mouse islet at 1 ( open bar ) and 20 mm glucose ( fill bar ) under control condition and presence of 0.5 mm tolbutamide .
( b ) a glucose dose - response of glucagon release from control c3hb islet ( fill circle ) and kir6.2y12x islet ( open circle ) .
( c ) a in ( b ) , but insulin be measure .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with control .
figure 4
the intracellular ca2+ response of single α cell within intact islet can be re-activated by low concentration of diazoxide
( a ) representative intracellular ca2+ response from α and β cell within an intact mouse islet expose to 0.5 mm glucose , 11 mm glucose , and 11 mm glucose plus 2 μm diazoxide ( diaz ) a indicate above the trace .
( b ) the ca2+ response of α cell be suppress by 11 mm glucose , and could be reactivate with low concentration of the katp channel agonist diazoxide .
*** , p < 0.001 , compare with the low - glucose condition , or a indicate .
figure 5
glucagon release from isolate and intact human islet be regulate by a katp channel - dependent pathway
( a ) glucagon ( open bar ) and insulin ( fill bar ) release be measure from isolate human islet under control condition and follow addition of 10 mm glucose or 200 μm tolbutamide .
( b ) glucagon ( open bar ) and insulin secretion ( fill bar ) measure in the presence of 10 mm glucose and increase concentration of diazoxide ( 0 – 200 μm ) .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with control , unless otherwise indicate .
figure 6
intracellular ca2+ response of α cell within intact human islet be regulate by a katp channel - dependent mechanism
( a ) ca2+ response measure in two human α cell within the same islet at 0.5 mm and 11 mm glucose ( glu ) , in the presence of 2 μm diazoxide ( diaz ) .
( b ) summary of the ca2+ response at 0.5 mm glucose , at 11 mm glucose , in the presence of glucose ( 11 mm ) and diazoxide ( 2 μm ) , and following the removal of diazoxide , but in the continue presence of 11 mm glucose .
( c ) the re-activation of human α - cell ca2+ response by 2 μm diazoxide be reverse upon application of the katp channel antagonist tolbutamide ( 100 μm ) .
( d ) the effect of increase concentration of diazoxide on the ca2+ response of a human α cell and β cell within the same islet expose to 11 mm glucose .
at the end of the experiment , diazoxide be withdraw and glucose lower to 0.5 mm .
( e ) dose - response curve for the effect of diazoxide on α - cell ca2+ response .
the grey horizontal line indicate the response with 11 mm glucose alone .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with control , unless otherwise indicate .
figure 7
glucagon secretion and α - cell ca2+ response be dependent upon the activity of voltage - dependent na+ channel
( a ) glucagon ( open bar ) and insulin ( fill bar ) release from isolate mouse islet at 1 mm and 20 mm glucose , under control condition and in the presence of the na+ channel antagonist ttx ( 0.1 μg / ml ) .
( b ) intracellular ca2+ response of single α cell to 0.5 mm glucose .
ttx ( 0.1 μg / ml ) be include in the perfusion medium during the indicate period .
( c ) the effect of ttx and glucose on α - cell ca2+ response .
note that ttx inhibit ca2+ response as effectively a glucose and that the action be at least partially reversible .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with control , unless otherwise indicate .
figure 8
glucagon secretion be regulate by n - type ca2+ channel
( a ) glucagon release measure at 1 ( open bar ) and 20 mm glucose ( fill bar ) under control condition and in the presence of 100 nm ω - conotoxin ( middle ) or 20 μm nifedipine ( right ) .
( b ) exocytosis be elicit by 500 - m depolarisation from − 70 to 0 mv under control condition ( ctrl ) and in the presence of either nifedipine ( 50 μm ; nif ) or ω - conotoxin ( 1 μm ; ω - con ) .
( c ) summary of the exocytotic response under control condition and in the presence of nifedipine and ω - conotoxin .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 , compare with 1 mm glucose and the control capacitance response , unless indicate otherwise .
figure 9
voltage - dependent inactivation of α - cell n - type ca2+ current and exocytosis
( a ) n - type ca2+ current be evaluate during blockade of the l - type channel with isradipine ( 2 μm ) .
the n - type channel antagonist ω - conotoxin ( 1 μm ; red trace ) reduce the ca2+ current elicit by a step depolarisation from − 70 to 0 mv ( right ) .
( b ) a in ( a ) , but the pulse to 0 mv be precede by a 200 - m conditioning depolarization to + 10 mv .
ω - conotoxin be without effect on the current measure during the depolarization to 0 mv under these condition ( right ) .
( c ) top : peak ca2+ current measure in the presence of 2 μm isradipine alone ( open square ) or together with 1 μm ω - conotoxin ( red circle ) during a depolarization to 0 mv following 200 - m conditioning pulse to between − 70 and + 70 mv .
low : inactivation of the ω - conotoxin – sensitive component .
half - maximal inactivation of the n - type current be at − 31 ± 6 mv ( n = 5 ) .
( d ) exocytosis be elicit with 500 - m depolarisation from − 70 mv to between − 50 and 20 mv .
( e ) the voltage dependence of the exocytotic response .
( f ) exocytosis elicit by 500 - m depolarisation to 0 mv from hold potential of between − 70 and − 30 mv .
( g ) summary of effect of holding potential on exocytotic response elicit by depolarisation to 0 mv .
data have be normalize to response obtain use a holding potential of − 70 mv .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.01 ; *** , p < 0.001 , compare with ω - conotoxin ( c , top ) or with the initial response .
figure 10
a model for the suppression of glucagon secretion by an intrinsic α - cell pathway
schematic representation of the effect of glucose , tolbutamide , and diazoxide on α - cell katp , na+ , and n - type ca2+ ( vdcc ) channel activity and glucagon secretion be show .
the insulin response be also show for comparison with our experimental result ( dashed line , low panel ) .
the grey gradient represent a “ window ” of α - cell katp channel activity that support the activation of ca2+ and na+ channel .
above this window , the cell be hyperpolarized and ca2+ and na+ channel activation be prevent , whereas katp channel activity below this window depolarize the cell and cause voltage - dependent inactivation of ca2+ and na+ channel .
( a ) high - glucose concentration reduce α - cell katp channel activity , reduce glucagon secretion .
( b ) grade application of tolbutamide ( in zero glucose ) transiently increase glucagon secretion a katp channel activity be reduce through , and eventually below , the window support glucagon release .
( c ) the grade application of diazoxide in high - glucose condition increase α - cell katp channel activity into , and then above the window support glucagon secretion .
the result be a transient “ re-activation ” of glucagon secretion at low - diazoxide concentration .
( d ) in low - glucose ( 1 – 2 mm ) condition , grade application of diazoxide increase katp channel activity above the window support glucagon secretion , cause a monotonic inhibition of glucagon release .
footnote
competing interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
author contribution .
pem , le , and pr conceive and design the experiment .
pem , yzdm , rr , a , xm , and le perform the experiment .
pem , yzdm , rr , a , le , and pr analyze the data .
prvj and rc contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
pem and pr write the paper .
funding .
work in the uk be support by grant to pr from the wellcome trust and the european union ( eurodia lshm - ct - 2006 – 518153 and biosim lshb - ct - 2004 – 005137 ) .
work conduct in sweden be support by the swedish strategic foundation , the göran gustafsson stiftelse , the swedish research council , the swedish diabetes association , and the novo nordisk foundation ( le ) .
production and characterization of murine model of classic and intermediate maple syrup urine disease
abstract
background
maple syrup urine disease ( msud ) be an inborn error of metabolism cause by a deficiency of branch - chain keto acid dehydrogenase .
msud have several clinical phenotype depend on the degree of enzyme deficiency .
current treatment be not satisfactory and require new approach to combat this disease .
a major hurdle in develop new treatment have be the lack of a suitable animal model .
method
to create a murine model of classic msud , we use gene targeting and embryonic stem cell technology to create a mouse line that lack a functional e2 subunit gene of branch - chain keto acid dehydrogenase .
to create a murine model of intermediate msud , we use transgenic technology to express a human e2 cdna on the knockout background .
mouse of both model be characterize at the molecular , biochemical , and whole animal level .
result
by disrupt the e2 subunit gene of branch - chain keto acid dehydrogenase , we create a gene knockout mouse model of classic msud .
the homozygous knockout mouse lack branch - chain keto acid dehydrogenase activity , e2 immunoreactivity , and have a 3 - fold increase in circulate branch - chain amino acid .
these metabolic derangement result in neonatal lethality .
transgenic expression of a human e2 cdna in the liver of the e2 knockout animal produce a model of intermediate msud .
branch - chain keto acid dehydrogenase activity be 5 – 6 % of normal and be sufficient to allow survival , but be insufficient to normalize circulate branch - chain amino acid level , which be intermediate between wildtype and the classic msud mouse model .
conclusion
these mouse represent important animal model that closely approximate the phenotype of human with the classic and intermediate form of msud .
these animal provide useful model to far characterize the pathogenesis of msud , as well a model to test novel therapeutic strategy , such a gene and cellular therapy , to treat this devastate metabolic disease .
background
maple syrup urine disease ( msud ) be a genetic disorder cause by a deficiency of branch - chain keto acid dehydrogenase ( bckdh ) , a mitochondrial multienzyme complex responsible for the oxidative decarboxylation of branch - chain keto acid derive from branch - chain amino acid ( bcaa ) , leucine , isoleucine and valine ( for review , see : [ 1 ] ) .
patient with msud , depend on the mutation , show variable degree of enzyme deficiency lead to several different clinical phenotype [ 1 ] .
approximately 75 % of msud patient have the classic form of the disease with bckdh activity in the range of 0 – 2 % of normal [ 1 ] .
these patient show markedly elevate level of bcaa in blood and other body fluid [ 1 ] .
besides the classic form , there be other variant of the disease .
patient with the intermediate form of the disease show bckdh activity in the range of 3 – 30 % of normal .
in such patient the onset of the disease be delay , but there be persistently elevate level of bcaa [ 1 ] .
patient with the intermittent form of msud show bckdh activity in the range of 5 – 20 % and during the asymptomatic phase the blood bcaa level be normal [ 1 ] .
the overall incidence of msud in the general population be 1 : 185,000 [ 1 ] , and in certain population group , such a mennonite of pennsylvania , the incidence be estimate to be a high a 1 : 176 [ 2 ] .
the bckdh complex , the deficient enzyme in msud , consist of three catalytic protein , a decarboxylase ( e1 ) , a dihydrolipoyl transacylase ( e2 ) , and a dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase ( e3 ) .
the e1 component be a heterotetramer compose of two α and two β subunit [ 3 ] .
the e1 and e2 component be specific to bckdh , whereas e3 be also use by pyruvate and α - ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex [ 3 ] and the glycine cleavage system [ 4 ] .
bckdh be also associate with two regulatory protein , a specific kinase and a phosphatase which regulate the activity of this enzyme through a phosphorylation ( inactivation ) and dephosphorylation ( activation ) cycle of the e1 α subunit [ 5 , 6 ] .
mutation in the gene of the e1 and e2 subunit of bckdh have be describe , however , the majority of msud mutation identify thus far be in the e2 subunit [ 1 , 7 ] .
to date , case of msud have not be associate with defect in the regulatory kinase and phosphatase [ 1 ] .
current management of msud patient rely on a strict lifelong dietary restriction of protein or bcaa [ 1 , 8 ] .
such a dietary management of the disease , however , be not entirely satisfactory especially in time of metabolic decompensation due to infection , injury and other stressor .
in spite of dietary intervention , there be significant mortality associate with msud and there be a high incidence of mental retardation in survivor [ 9 ] .
because of the central role of the liver in amino acid metabolism and moderate / high level of bckdh activity in human liver [ 10 - 12 ] , a few case of msud have recently be treat by liver transplantation [ 13 - 16 ] .
while the short - term outcome of liver transplantation be encouraging , long - term effect of this approach be not know .
however , these patient be now require to take immunosuppressant drug for the rest of their life , often with undesirable side effect .
moreover , the cost associate with liver transplantation and the availability of donor liver be additional limit factor for the practicality of treatment of this disease .
because of the current unsatisfactory option for the treatment of msud , there be a need for improve therapy to combat this disease .
an obstacle to develop novel treatment for msud have be the lack of a suitable animal model to perform necessary preclinical study .
although a hereford calf model with msud have be describe [ 17 - 19 ] , this model be neither readily available nor practical to perform preclinical study .
furthermore , comparison of this animal model with human msud have show some difference in the pathology of the disease [ 1 ] , make this animal a less desirable model for the human disease .
recently , a n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea ( enu ) - induce mutant mouse that phenotypically resemble human msud have be describe [ 20 ] .
however , the mutation in this model disrupt a splice site in the mitochondrial branch - chain aminotransferase ( bcat ) gene , not in bckdh , the deficient enzyme in msud .
because the mutation be not in bckdh , the validity of this mutant mouse line for model human msud be questionable .
the objective of the present study be to create genetically engineer murine model of msud that mimic the pathology of the classic and intermediate variant form of the human disease .
the classic model be create by target inactivation of the e2 subunit of bckdh by homologous recombination in embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
the model of intermediate msud be create by partial transgenic rescue of the e2 gene knockout .
this report describe the generation and characterization of these murine model of msud .
these model will allow for the development of novel treatment approach , such a gene or stem cell therapy , to ultimately cure msud .
method
all study involve animal be review and approve by the university of pittsburgh 's institutional animal care and use committee .
gene knockout production
a genomic dna subclone of strain 129 / svj dna that contain a portion of exon 4 and 5 of the e2 gene and flanking dna be obtain from a p1 phage library from genome system , inc. , ( st. louis , mo ; ' 3 - hit mouse e library ' ) .
a positive / negative replacement type gene targeting vector [ 21 ] be create by replace a 1.67 kb ecorv - smal fragment that include a portion of exon 4 and all of exon 5 with the pgkneo marker gene ( see fig. 1a ) from the ppnt vector [ 22 ] .
the targeting construct be linearize with noti and electroporated into r1 e cell [ 23 ] under condition describe previously [ 24 ] .
e cell be select with g418 ( 300 μg / ml ; life technology inc. , gaithersburg , md ) and gancyclovir ( 2 μm ; gift of syntex , palo alto , ca ) .
doubly resistant clone be screen for gene targeting by southern blot analysis of bgli digest genomic dna .
blot be hybridize with an exon 6 specific probe that be external to the gene targeting construct .
correctly target e cell be inject into c57bl / 6j blastocyst to produce chimeric mouse use standard procedure .
heterozygous offspring from germline competent chimera be intercrossed to produce wild type ( + / + ) , heterozygous ( + / - ) and homozygous knockout ( - / - ) mouse .
at all generation , + / - breed pair be use .
result present here be from mouse derive from the f2 + generation .
all animal be of a mix c57bl / 6j × strain 129sv / svj genetic background .
figure 1
e2 gene knockout mouse production .
a , gene targeting strategy use for target the e2 locus in mouse e cell .
the targeting construct be design to delete 1.67 kb of sequence between an ecorv site in exon 4 and a smal site in intron 5 .
the wild type e2 gene contain an ~ 16 kb bgli restriction fragment that hybridize to the exon 6 specific probe .
a correctly target e2 locus harbor an ~ 11 kb bgli restriction fragment that hybridize to the same probe .
note that the probe will not detect random integration of the targeting vector because it be external to the targeting vector .
b , southern blot analysis of bgll digest genomic dna derive from the parental wild type e cell line ( r1 ) , a heterozygous target e cell line ( 362 ) , and from wild type ( + / + ) , heterozygous ( + / - ) and homozygous knockout ( - / - ) mouse .
the blot be hybridize with an exon 6 specific probe .
c , immunohistochemical analysis of fresh freeze liver section from control ( + / + ) and e2 knockout ( - / - ) postnatal day 1 mouse pup .
section be stain for e2 use an e2 specific antibody ( green ) and a nuclear stain ( blue ) .
note the complete absence of e2 immunoreactivity in the section from the knockout mouse .
d , similar result be observe upon immunohistochemical analysis of primary mouse embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) .
note that the readily detectable signal for e2 in the control cell be present in a pattern characteristic of mitochondrion , the subcellular location of bckdh .
production of transgenic mouse
standard molecular technique be use to assemble the transgenic construct , ptre - e2 .
this transgene contain the tetracycline responsive hcmv * - 1 promoter [ consist of the tetracycline responsive element ( tre ) and a minimal hcmv promoter ] [ 25 ] from ptre2 ( clontech inc. , mt. view , ca ) , a chimeric intron from pci ( promega ) to increase message stability and expression [ 26 , 27 ] , a kozak consensus sequence at the initiation codon to optimize translation [ 28 ] , the human e2 cdna which have be modify to contain a 4 × alanine linker follow by a c - myc epitope tag at the carboxy terminus to facilitate detection , and an sv40 late polyadenylation sequence from pci for enhance mrna stability and translation .
the 2.48 kb tre - e2 transgene be purify from vector sequence follow digestion with xhoi and bamhi and inject into c57bl / 6j or c57bl / 6j × strain 129svev mouse embryo at the transgenic core facility of the university of pittsburgh and the university of cincinnati , respectively .
genomic dna from the tail of mouse be screen by southern blot analysis follow digestion with ecori and hybridization to an ~ 400 bp probe derive from the sv40 portion of the tre - e2 transgene .
production of intermediate msud murine model
the various tre - e2 transgenic line produce be mat independently to mouse that be heterozygous for both the e2 knockout and the lap - tta transgene [ tg ( ttalap ) bjd / j ; stock 3272 ; the jackson laboratory , bar harbor , me ; nmri × fvb × c57bl / 6j background ] .
interbreeding of animal that be heterozygous for both transgene and the knockout result in the production of mouse with a variety of genotype include some animal that be homozygous for the knockout and be positive for both transgene ( we refer to this genotype a the " rescue " genotype ) .
if our strategy for rescue the neonatal lethal phenotype of the knockout be successful , then those homozygous knockout animal that have both transgene would survive beyond the neonatal period .
genotyping
all mouse be genotyped by southern blot analysis .
genomic dna prepare from tail snip be digest with an appropriate restriction enzyme , size fractionate by agarose gel electrophoresis , blot to nylon , and probe use standard procedure .
immunohistochemistry
primary mouse embryonic fibroblast be prepare from embryonic day ~ 16.5 – 18.5 fetus a describe [ 29 ] .
fibroblast be pass onto glass , fix in 2 % paraformaldehyde in pb for 10 minute , permeabilized in 2 % paraformaldehyde contain 0.1 % triton x100 for 10 minute and wash three time in pb contain 0.5 % bsa and 0.15 % glycine , ph 7.4 ( buffer a ) .
follow a 30 min incubation with purify goat igg ( 50 ( μg / ml ) at 25 °c and three additional wash with buffer a , cell be incubate for 60 min with e2 - specific antiserum [ 30 ] at 1 μg / ml follow by three wash in buffer a and 60 minute incubation in fluorescently label second antibody ( 1 – 2 μg / ml ) .
the cell be then wash six time ( 5 min / wash ) in buffer a and then mount in gelvatol ( monsanto , st louis ) .
when liver from newborn pup be examine , fixation be by immersion in 2 % paraformaldehyde follow by cryoprotection and shock freezing in liquid nitrogen cool isopentane and sectioning ( 5 micron ) .
otherwise processing be a for the cell above ( without the fixation and permabilization step ) .
amino acid analysis
blood be collect from the retroorbital sinus or tail vein of mouse and spot on a filter paper routinely use for blood amino acid analysis for prenatal screening .
concentration of bcaa and other amino acid in blood be determine by tandem mass spectrometry ( pediatrix screening , bridgeville , pa ) .
assay of bckdh activity
liver be remove , freeze in liquid nitrogen , and store at - 80 °c .
at the time of enzyme assay , liver be thaw , and homogenize ( 1 : 9 , w / v ) in 0.25 m sucrose , 10 mm tris - hc1 , ph 7.4 .
liver homogenate be centrifuge at 600 × g for 10 min at 4 °c and the supernatant fraction be save to determine the bckdh activity .
the use of tissue homogenate be necessitate by the limited availability of liver tissue , particularly from newborn pup .
bckdh activity be determine by measure the release of 14co2 from α - keto [ 1 - 14c ] isocaproate a describe previously [ 31 ] .
the complete reaction mixture contain ( final volume 1 ml ) 30 mm potassium phosphate buffer , ph 7.4 , 0.20 mm α - ketoisocaproate , 0.40 mm coash , 0.40 mm thiamin pyrophosphate , 2 mm nad + , 2 mm dithiothreitol , 5 mm mg2 + , approximately 250,000 dpm of α - keto [ 1 - 14c ] isocaproate , and 0.10 ml of liver homogenate ( 2 – 3 mg protein ) .
assay be carry out for 15 min at 37 °c , 14co2 be trap in hydroxide of hyamine , and radioactivity be determine by liquid scintillation spectrometry .
western blot analysis
protein extract be isolate from homogenize liver ( freshly harvest and flash freeze ) of wildtype , line 525a , and line a transgenic mouse .
protein ( 25 μg per sample ) be analyze by electrophoresis on a 10 % sd - page ready gel ( bio - rad , hercules , ca ) and transfer to pvdf membrane ( sequi - blot ; bio - rad ) via electroblotting .
all blot be probe for e2 protein use polyclonal rabbit e2 antiserum ( 1 : 5,000 ) , which detect both mouse ( ~ 47 kd ) and human ( ~ 54 kd ) e2 subunit ( [ 30 ] ; gift from dr. susan hutson , wake forest university ) .
blot be re-probed with a rabbit anti-c - myc tag antibody ( 1 : 10,000 ; abcam , cambridge , ma ; cat. # ab9106 - 100 ) .
blot be also re-probed with an antibody for β - actin ( 43 kd ; 1 : 10,000 ; abcam ; cat. # ab8227 - 50 ) to allow for loading comparison .
a goat anti-rabbit secondary antibody conjugate to horseradish peroxidase ( 1 : 10,000 ; novus , littleton , co ; cat. # nb730 - h ) be use for detection use the western lightning chemiluminescence reagent ( perkin elmer , boston , ma ) and expose to x-ray film .
statistical analysis
all bcaa and bckdh enzyme activity data be present a the mean + / - the standard error of the mean ( s.e.m. ) .
difference between genotype be compare by student 's t test [ 32 ] .
result
production of e2 gene knockout mouse
to create e2 knockout mouse , we use gene targeting in mouse e cell to disrupt the e2 gene .
the overall strategy for disrupt the e2 gene be illustrate in fig. 1a .
the gene targeting construct be design to replace a 1.67 kb ecorv / smal genomic dna fragment encompass part of exon 4 and all of exon 5 with the pgkneo selectable marker cassette .
of 522 e cell clone screen for targeting by southern blot analysis , 29 ( 5 % ) display the predict restriction fragment length polymorphism indicative of gene target at the e2 locus .
a illustrate in fig. 1a and 1b , an e2 exon 6 specific probe , which be external to the targeting construct , hybridize to only a ~ 16 kb bgli restriction fragment from the wild type allele in the parental r1 e cell line .
in correctly target e cell , this probe also hybridize to a ~ 11 kb bgli restriction fragment .
targeting be confirm with several additional restriction enzyme and probe ( data not show ) .
correctly target e cell be microinjected into blastocyst to produce chimeric mouse .
chimerics be breed to c57bl / 6j mouse .
follow germline transmission of the target allele , heterozygous mouse be interbreed to produce wild type ( + / + ) , heterozygous ( + / - ) and homozygous ( - / - ) animal .
mouse be genotyped by southern blot analysis .
the exon 6 specific probe hybridize to only a ~ 16 kb bgli restriction fragment in + / + mouse , a ~ 11 kb bgli fragment in - / - mouse , and to both of these fragment in + / - mouse ( fig. 1b ) .
mouse homozygous for the e2 mutation be bear at the expect frequency .
genotype analysis of pup derive from + / - by + / - mating reveal that + / + , + / - , and - / - mouse be present at nearly the expect 1 : 2 : 1 frequency .
of the initial 60 animal genotyped , 19 ( 32 % ) be + / + , 27 ( 45 % ) be + / - , and 14 ( 23 % ) be - / - .
thus , the e2 gene be dispensable for normal embryonic development .
however , a expect , nearly all homozygous mouse die in the perinatal period .
immediately follow birth , homozygous pup be indistinguishable from their + / + and + / - littermates ; they be vigorous , active and able to suckle .
by mid to late day on postnatal day one , most - / - pup become moribund and be readily identifiable a they be lethargic , pale , and exhibit gasp respiratory movement .
with few exception , - / - pup die within 72 hour of birth .
we have observe one rare - / - pup that survive to postnatal day 13 .
the reason for the prolong survival of this pup be unknown .
e2 deficient mouse accurately model classic msud
to demonstrate that the gene targeting event create a true e2 null allele , we determine bckdh activity in liver homogenate of postnatal day 1 mouse pup derive from + / - by + / - mating pair .
a show in figure 2a , the bckdh activity in + / + mouse be readily detectable .
in marked contrast , bckdh activity be completely absent in - / - mouse liver .
a expect , homogenate from + / - mouse have approximately half the activity of their + / + littermates ( figure 2a ) .
the result from - / - mouse be similar to that observe in human with classic msud [ 1 ] .
figure 2
biochemical characterization of the classic msud murine model .
a , bckdh enzyme activity in liver of newborn wild type control ( + / + ) , heterozygous ( + / - ) , and homozygous ( - / - ) knockout mouse .
enzyme activity be significantly reduced in + / - liver compare to + / + , and be below the level of detection in - / - liver .
b , total bcaa concentration in blood of mouse .
total bcaa represent the sum of leucine , isoleucine , and valine .
total bcaa concentration in blood from - / - mouse be significantly elevated compare to + / + and + / - .
c , ratio of total bcaa to alanine in blood of mouse .
this ratio be significantly elevated in - / - mouse compare to + / + and + / - mouse .
the number on the bar indicate the number of mouse analyze .
* , significantly different from + / + ( p < 0.001 ) ; ** , significantly different from + / + and + / - ( p < 0.001 ) .
immunohistochemistry with an e2 specific antibody be use to examine e2 protein in the mouse .
a show in figure 1c and 1d , immunoreactive e2 protein be abundant in liver and embryonic fibroblast of + / + mouse .
in marked contrast , immunoreactive e2 protein be absent in these same tissue of - / - mouse .
homozygous e2 knockout mouse have a nearly 3 - fold increase in blood ( figure 2b ) and urine ( data not show ) level of bcaa ( sum of leucine , isoleucine , and valine ) a compare to their + / + littermates .
because amino acid be analyze by tandem mass spectrometry , the sum of bcaa show in figure 2b also may include alloisoleucine that may have be produce in - / - msud mouse .
the metabolism of bcaa be link with the synthesis of alanine , glutamate , and glutamine [ 33 ] .
because of impaired metabolism of bcaa in msud mouse , and to far characterize the abnormal biochemistry in this model , we analyze the blood level of the alanine , glutamate , and glutamine .
a show in table 1 , the level of all three amino acid in homozygous mouse be markedly low than the level in + / + or + / - mouse .
the level of these amino acid in the + / - mouse be comparable to those in + / + mouse ( table 1 ) .
because of the abnormal decrease in the blood alanine level and marked rise in blood bcaa level that be characteristic of msud , a recent report on msud patient have suggest that the ratio of bcaa / alanine provide a more sensitive measure of the abnormal biochemistry of msud than bcaa level alone [ 8 ] .
therefore , we also express the amino acid result a bcaa / alanine ratio .
a show in figure 2c , this ratio in - / - pup be more than 6 - fold high than + / + or + / - littermates .
these blood amino acid result be consistent with the concentration see in patient with msud [ 1 , 8 , 15 ] .
table 1
summary of additional blood amino acid level in the classic msud model and control littermates a determine by tandem mass spectrometry .
all sample be collect on the day of birth .
all value be mean + / - sem .
* : significantly different from + / + and + / - ( p < 0.001 ) .
in summary , e2 knockout mouse lack bckdh enzymatic activity , e2 immunoreactivity , and have markedly elevate level of bcaa in the blood and urine .
these metabolic derangement ultimately result in neonatal lethality .
these phenotype be remarkably similar to that observe in human with the classic form of msud .
thus , e2 knockout mouse closely model classic msud .
knockout mouse express a human e2 transgene model a variant form of msud that mimic intermediate msud
to create a murine model of the intermediate variant form of msud , we use a transgenic strategy to rescue the severe elevation of bcaa and neonatal lethality that occur in the classic msud mouse model .
our strategy be compose of a two part transgenic system to express human e2 in liver on the e2 knockout background .
this bi-transgenic system consist of a lap - tta transgene and a tre - e2 transgene ( fig. 3a ) .
the lap - tta transgene [ 34 ] direct high level of liver specific expression of the tetracycline - control transactivator ( tta ) , a transcription factor that stimulate expression of promoter that harbor a transactivator response element ( tre ) .
the tre - e2 transgene be design to express a human e2 cdna from a tre contain minimal promoter upon stimulation by tta .
figure 3
transgenic mouse production and characterization .
a , transgenic strategy use to produce mouse that express human e2 .
lap - tta transgenic mouse have be previously describe [ 34 ] .
these mouse express the tetracycline - control transactivator ( tta ) from the liver specific lap promoter .
the tre - e2 transgene contain the tetracycline response element ( tre ) a part of the promoter , a synthetic intron ( thin line ) , the human e2 cdna , an alanine spacer , a c - myc epitope tag , and sv40 derive polyadenylation sequence .
this construct be use to create several line of transgenic mouse .
b , western blot analysis of e2 protein in liver of control and intermediate msud mouse .
note that the amount of human e2 protein ( predict mw ~ 54 kd ) in mouse from line a and 525 a be variable but in many of the animal the amount be similar to the amount of mouse e2 ( mw = ~ 47 kd ) in control animal .
re - probing with a c - myc tag antibody confirm the presence of the transgene derive , c - myc tag , human e2 in transgenic mouse but not in control .
western blot analysis of brain ( c ) , kidney ( d ) , and muscle ( e ) reveal negligible amount of transgene derive e2 in those tissue .
all blot be re-probed with an actin antibody to allow amount of protein load in each lane to be compare .
lap - tta mouse be previously produce and characterize by the bujard laboratory [ 34 ] .
pronuclear microinjection be use to produce transgenic mouse that harbor the tre - e2 transgene .
from injection at the university of pittsburgh , 2 transgene positive founder be identify that lead to the generation of 3 different transgenic line ( line a , b , & d ) .
from the injection at the university of cincinnati , we obtain 8 transgene positive founder .
subsequent breeding of these founder reveal that many of the animal have multiple transgene insertion site that segregate .
we establish a total of 15 different transgenic line from these founder .
limit resource allow u to only focus on a total of 9 of these line .
these line differ substantially in transgene copy number a compare by southern blot analysis of tail dna ( data not show ) .
transgenic tre - e2 mouse from each line ( either founder or f1 offspring ) be cross to mouse that be positive for the lap - tta transgene and be heterozygous for the e2 knockout .
ultimately , breed pair be use in which the mouse be heterozygous for the lap - tta transgene , the tre - e2 transgene , and the e2 knockout .
to efficiently screen for the ability of the transgene to rescue the knockout from neonatal lethality , we genotyped litter at weaning .
this breed strategy be expect to result in a theoretical maximum of animal with the rescue genotype ( i.e. , homozygous e2 knockout and positive for both transgene ) of 14 % .
fig. 4a show the percentage of mouse alive at weaning with the rescue genotype from each transgenic line test .
considerable variability be observe between line .
the line with the high percentage of rescue mouse at weaning be line 525 a .
approximately 10 % of wean , survive pup from this line have the rescue genotype .
thus , the 525a transgene appear to be highly effective at rescue the neonatal lethal phenotype of the e2 knockout .
in contrast , line 520b completely fail to rescue the neonatal lethal phenotype .
all other line test produce survive rescue animal at a frequency between 1 and 5 % of wean pup .
figure 4
characterization of the intermediate msud murine model .
a , survival analysis of transgenic rescue line .
present be percentage of mouse alive at wean from each transgenic line test that have the rescue genotype ( i.e. , homozygous for knockout of endogenous e2 and positive for both the lap - tta and tre - e2 transgene ) .
also plot be the theoretical maximum frequency at which this genotype be expect in this population of animal .
the number on the bar indicate the number of observation for each line .
b , ratio of total bcaa to alanine in blood of mouse from control and line a and 525a .
total bcaa represent the sum of leucine , isoleucine , and valine .
bcaa / alanine value be significantly great for line a and 525a compare to control at all age test .
the number on the bar indicate the number of sample analyze .
* , p ≤ 0.01 ; ** , p < 0.005 .
c , bckdh enzyme activity in liver of control and line a and 525a mouse .
* , p ≤ 0.001 ; ** , p ≤ 0.0001 .
d , survival curve for mouse from line a and 525a .
rescue mouse alive at weaning be monitor until they be moribund and subsequently sacrifice or be find dead in their cage .
line a and 525a be select for detail characterization .
fig. 4b show the result of blood amino acid analysis present a a ratio of total bcaa to alanine .
the bcaa / alanine value for mouse from both line be significantly elevated compare to control for all of the time point analyze .
note that the bcaa / alanine value for the transgenic mouse be intermediate between control and knockout ( see figure 2c ) .
blood level of alanine , glutamate , and glutamine be reduce in line a mouse , a be glutamate in line 525a mouse , compare to control ( table 2 ) .
table 2
summary of additional blood amino acid level in the intermediate msud model and littermate control a determine by tandem mass spectrometry .
sample be collect from mouse that be 4 – 6 week of age .
all value be mean + / - sem .
* : significantly different from control ( p < 0.05 ) .
** : significantly different from control ( p < 0.01 ) .
*** : significantly different from line 525a ( p < 0.05 ) .
because the lap - tta mouse that be use to drive expression of transgenic human e2 have be demonstrate to produce liver specific expression [ 34 ] , bckdh enzyme activity and production of human e2 protein in liver of line a and 525a be examine .
bckdh enzymatic activity in liver from line a and 525a be ~ 6 and 5 % , respectively , of the enzymatic activity present in control liver ( fig. 4c ) .
a show in fig. 3b , the amount of human e2 ( predict mw ~ 54 kd ) in these transgenic mouse be quite variable between mouse .
in some of these transgenic mouse , the level of human e2 be approximately equal to the amount of mouse e2 ( ~ 47 kd ) produce in liver of nontransgenic control mouse .
the observation that these near normal amount of e2 protein result in only ~ 5 – 6 % of normal bckdh enzyme activity suggest that transgene derive e2 be function at a suboptimal level .
it be probable that the c - myc tag at the carboxy terminus of the transgene derive human e2 interfere with enzymatic activity .
this interpretation be consistent with previous study which have reveal that the carboxy terminus of an analogous subunit of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex be essential for subunit interaction [ 35 ] and insertion of a hisx6 tag on the carboxy terminus of an analogous e. coli subunit interfere with normal subunit assembly [ 36 ] .
it be also possible that human e2 be not fully functional when complexed with mouse e1 and e3 subunit .
human e2 share ~ 88 % identity to mouse e2 at the amino acid level .
we also use western blot analysis to analyze expression of the e2 transgene in brain , kidney and muscle .
a show in figure 3c , d and 3e respectively , expression of e2 be negligible in those tissue .
long - term survival of the mouse from these two transgenic line that survive beyond weaning be plot in fig. 4d .
although survival data for control animal be not collect , it be readily apparent that survival of the rescue mouse be compromise .
by 16 week , all mouse of line a be moribund and humanely sacrifice , or be find dead in their cage .
survival of line 525a appear to be somewhat good .
at 20 week of age , ~ 12 % of mouse ( 2 of 16 ) be still alive .
these two rare survivor die at 40 and 60 week of age .
in summary , these survive mouse have bcaa / alanine ratio that be intermediate between control and knockout and they express ~ 5 – 6 % of normal bckdh enzyme activity in the liver .
these phenotypic observation be remarkably similar to the clinical phenotype observe in msud patient with the intermediate form of the disease [ 1 ] .
thus , these rescue mouse represent a very useful model of the intermediate msud phenotype .
discussion
a major hurdle in develop new treatment for msud have be the lack of a practical , accurate animal model of the disease .
this hurdle have now be overcome .
in this report , we describe the development and characterization of two genetically engineer mouse model that be phenotypically very similar to msud patient with the classic and intermediate form of the disease .
our model of classic msud be create by gene knockout of the e2 subunit of bckdh .
the phenotype of these knockout animal be strikingly similar to human with classic msud .
knockout mouse be bear at the expect frequency and appear normal at birth .
within a day of birth and follow suckling , blood level of bcaa be markedly elevated .
concomitantly , level of the amino acid alanine , glutamate , and glutamine , whose synthesis be link with normal metabolism of bcaa , be decrease ( table 1 ) .
the activity of bckdh in liver of homozygous knockout mouse pup be undetectable , account for the accumulation of unmetabolized bcaa .
immunoreactive e2 protein be absent in liver and fibroblast of homozygous pup .
the phenotypic behavior of homozygous mouse pup resemble symptom see in newborn classic msud patient .
these include sign of neurologic dysfunction such a seizure , stupor , lethargy , loss of motor activity , and respiratory difficulty [ 1 ] .
these neurologic symptom may result from reduce level of glutamate , glutamine , alanine , and other similar neuroactive amino acid , which be consider the culprit for msud encephalopathy in patient [ 1 , 37 ] .
finally , nearly all of the homozygous pup die within 72 hour of birth .
this neonatal lethality be likely due to the accumulation of bcaa to neurotoxic level , ketoacidosis , brain edema , dehydration , and malnutrition a observe in the msud calf [ 17 ] and in classic msud patient [ 1 ] .
heterozygous knockout be normal and have normal level of bcaa despite have approximately half of bckdh enzymatic activity .
from the characterization study complete thus far , the null mutation mouse accurately represent a model of classic msud and appear to be a faithful model of the human disease with respect to several biochemical phenotype [ 1 ] .
to create a model of intermediate msud , we use a transgenic strategy to express human e2 in the liver of e2 knockout mouse .
a mention above , e2 knockout without transgene derive e2 die during the early neonatal period .
we show that expression of a human e2 transgene in the liver of these knockout mouse be able to rescue the neonatal lethality .
many of the rescue mouse survive to adulthood .
it be interesting to note that in these mouse line only ~ 5 – 6 % of normal bckdh activity in the liver be sufficient to allow survival .
we also demonstrate that bcaa level in blood of these rescue mouse be intermediate between control and knockout .
the hallmark of intermediate msud human patient be persistently increase level of bcaa and bckdh activity in the range of 3 – 30 % of normal [ 1 ] .
because of the phenotypic similarity of the rescue mouse to the human patient , these genetically engineer mouse represent a useful small animal model of the intermediate form of msud .
the transgenic approach that be use to create the intermediate msud model be base on the tetracycline regulate gene switch system that have be use with great success in other study , for example [ 34 ] .
the strategy behind our approach be to create mouse with an intermediate msud phenotype that could be convert to the classic phenotype at the investigator 's discretion by turn off the rescue transgene .
however , we be unable to consistently turn off the human e2 expression cassette by the potent tetracycline analogue , doxycycline in either of the two transgenic line test ( data not show ) .
the reason these two line be unresponsive to doxycycline be unknown .
it be conceivable that the integration site of the transgene be not permissive for regulate expression .
screening of additional line may be need to find line that allow for survival and can also be regulate .
the model describe in this communication be important advance over the previously describe model .
an enu mouse resemble human msud be previously create by disrupt the mitochondrial bcat gene [ 20 ] .
the bckdh activity in the liver and muscle of this mouse be normal even though the blood bcaa level be markedly elevated .
while this be an interesting model , it be not a true model of msud because the mutation be not in bckdh and the level of bckdh be normal .
furthermore , no case of msud have be describe attribute this disease to bcat deficiency .
in addition to this mouse model , a cow model of msud have also be previously describe [ 17 - 19 ] .
however , due to practical constraint impose by such a large animal model and due to the observation of difference between the msud cow model and msud human [ 1 ] , this model be also of limited utility .
in contrast , the murine model describe in this report be more valid and appropriate for model human msud .
the most significant opportunity present by the msud mouse model be to test novel treatment such a gene [ 38 - 41 ] and cell base therapy ( e.g. , hepatocytes [ 42 , 43 ] or embryonic stem cell [ 44 ] ) .
relevant to gene therapy , recent problem with gene therapy in human highlight the importance and critical need of animal model of genetic disease for preclinical study .
the testing of gene and cell base therapy on appropriate animal model system provide a preliminary method of establish not only the efficacy , but also short - and long - term safety .
success with animal study be expect to advance such therapeutic approach and could pave the way for study in human .
in addition to test various treatment , these model should also be very useful for investigate the underlie pathophysiologic consequence of the disease .
such study be very difficult / impossible to do in human patient for obvious ethical reason , and often must rely on autopsy tissue .
additionally , the intermediate msud model may also be useful for study to test the effect of thiamin .
a thiamin - responsive form of msud have be describe [ 1 ] .
the phenotype of these patient be heterogeneous and treatment with a wide range of thiamin dos have produce limited success [ 1 ] .
recent cell culture study with msud cell have suggest that the thiamin - responsive phenotype be dependent upon the presence of at least one e2 express allele [ 45 , 46 ] .
in light of these new finding , our intermediate msud mouse provide a model to test the effect of thiamin with respect to bckdh activity and blood amino acid level at the level of the whole animal .
because of recent interest in structural analysis of multienzyme complex [ 35 , 36 , 45 , 46 ] , the intermediate msud model may provide a valuable resource for study of structural biology .
lastly , the information and knowledge gain from study with the msud model describe here will also be applicable and transferable to other mitochondrial disorder due to defect in multisubunit enzyme .
conclusion
in summary , this report describe the development and characterization of genetically engineer mouse model of classic as well a intermediate msud .
these animal provide useful model to far characterize the pathogenesis of msud , as well a model to test novel therapeutic strategy , such a gene and cellular therapy , to treat this devastate metabolic disease .
abbreviation
the abbreviation use be : msud , maple syrup urine disease ; bckdh , branch chain ketoacid dehydrogenase ; bcaa , branch chain amino acid ; enu , n - ethyl - n - nitrosourea ; bcat , branch chain aminotransferase ; e cell , embryonic stem cell ; tre , tetracycline responsive element ; mef , mouse embryonic fibroblast .
compete interest
the author ( s ) declare that they have no compete interest .
author ' contribution
geh design and produce the mouse model , coordinate experiment , interpret data , and help draft the manuscript .
k conduct much of the characterization of the intermediate msud model .
cf assist with production of the mouse model , data collection , analysis , and interpretation .
sw direct the immunohistochemistry experiment .
hsp conceive of the knockout model , interpret data and draft the manuscript .
all author contribute to compose and edit the manuscript and have read and approve the final version .
pre-publication history
the pre-publication history for this paper can be access here :
acknowledgement
the author would like to thank frank kist , jodi dagget , edward mallick , brian sloat , and judith rodda for expert technical assistance , and dr. susan hutson for the gift of e2 antiserum .
this work be support by national institute of health grant dk51960 , dk57386 , dk57956 , aa10422 , the scott c. foster metabolic disease fund , and the msud family support group .
rescue of progeria in trichothiodystrophy by homozygous lethal xpd allele
abstract
although compound heterozygosity , or the presence of two different mutant allele of the same gene , be common in human recessive disease , it potential to impact disease outcome have not be well document .
this be most likely because of the inherent difficulty in distinguish specific biallelic effect from difference in environment or genetic background .
we address the potential of different recessive allele to contribute to the enigmatic pleiotropy associate with xpd recessive disorder in compound heterozygous mouse model .
alteration in this essential helicase , with function in both dna repair and basal transcription , result in diverse pathology range from elevate uv sensitivity and cancer predisposition to accelerate segmental progeria .
we report a variety of biallelic effect on organismal phenotype attributable to combination of recessive xpd allele , include the following : ( i ) the ability of homozygous lethal xpd allele to ameliorate a variety of disease symptom when their essential basal transcription function be supply by a different disease - cause allele , ( ii ) differential developmental and tissue - specific function of distinct xpd allele product , and ( iii ) interallelic complementation , a phenomenon rarely report at clinically relevant locus in mammal .
our data suggest a re-evaluation of the contribution of “ null ” allele to xpd disorder and highlight the potential of combination of recessive allele to affect both normal and pathological phenotypic plasticity in mammal .
introduction
interallelic complementation be define a the ability of two differentially mutate allele to function well together than either can on it own .
despite it near universality in low organism [ 1 ] , it potential to contribute to clinical heterogeneity in human disease be seldom consider .
evidence of interallelic complementation at clinically relevant locus be limit to biochemical and cell - base study of a handful of metabolic disorder with defect in enzyme include propinyl - coa carboxylase [ 2 ] , argininosuccinate lyase [ 3 ] , galactose - 1 - phosphate uridylyltransferase [ 4 ] , and methylmalonyl coa mutase [ 5 ] .
compound heterozygote be individual carry two different mutant allele of the same gene .
in the absence of a dominant ( wild - type [ wt ] ) allele , genetic interaction between recessive allele ( refer to here a “ biallelic ” effect ) could result in different phenotypic outcome include interallelic complementation .
although amelioration of disease symptom by interallelic complementation would create an ascertainment bias in the clinic , the lack of evidence concern interallelic complementation or other biallelic effect in human disease be likely cause by the difficulty in distinguish such effect from environment and genetic background .
xpd encode one of the two helicase component of basal transcription / dna repair factor iih ( tfiih ) , a ten - subunit , multifunctional complex that be essential for multiple process , include basal transcription initiation and dna damage repair via the nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) pathway [ 6 , 7 ] .
alteration in xpd result in defective tfiih function be associate with uv - sensitive , multisystem disorder include xeroderma pigmentosum ( xp ) , xp combine with cockayne syndrome ( c ) , and trichothiodystrophy ( ttd ) [ 8 – 10 ] .
xp be mark by sun - induce pigmentation anomaly and a great than 1,000 - fold elevation in skin cancer risk .
severe case can also present with growth retardation and primary neurodegeneration [ 11 ] .
c and ttd , on the other hand , be segmental progeroid disorder characterise by progressive post-natal growth failure and primary demyelination result in severe neurodysfunction , but without a clear cancer predisposition [ 12 – 15 ] .
patient with ttd additionally display hallmark sulphur - deficient brittle hair and nail and scaling skin [ 13 ] , result from a basal transcription defect in specific cell type [ 16 , 17 ] .
a related disorder with the cancer predisposition of xp combine with the neurodevelopmental complication of c ( xpcs ) , although rare , have also be describe [ 18 ] .
many xpd mutation be associate with an exclusive disease phenotype ( e.g. , xpdr722w with ttd and xpdr683w with xp ) and be thus view a causative of the correspond syndrome .
allele not associate exclusively with one disorder be consider “ likely null ” allele [ 19 , 20 ] .
some of these allele fail to support viability in a haploid schizosaccharomyces pombe yeast strain with a null mutation in the xpd homologue rad15 and be thus consider devoid of significant biological activity [ 19 ] .
this classification of allele a either causative or null currently define what we refer to a a “ monoallelic ” paradigm of xpd disease .
however , the identification in recent year of xp complementation group d patient with atypical disease presentation , include symptom of both xp and ttd [ 8 ] , cast doubt on the ability of such a monoallelic paradigm to explain clinical heterogeneity in compound heterozygote .
previously , we generate a ttd mouse model ( xpdr722w ) that phenocopies the human syndrome [ 15 , 21 ] .
here we report the generation of additional mutant xpd allele that fail to support viability on their own but nevertheless ameliorate ttd - associate premature segmental ageing , cutaneous feature , cellular dna repair capacity , and uv survival when present in a compound heterozygote state .
result
generation of xpd compound heterozygote
we generate an xpd knock - in allele with a point mutation encode a single amino acid change ( xpdg602d ) find in the xpcs patient xpcs2 ( figure 1a – 1c ) .
mrna expression from the target allele could be detect in embryonic stem cell by rt - pcr ( figure 1d ) , although expression be reduce approximately 5 - fold relative to wt mrna transcript level a determine by northern blot of rna from the testis of heterozygous animal ( figure 1e ) .
because patient xpcs2 be a hemizygote with mutant xpd protein ( xpdg602d ) express from a single allele , the correspond mutation be expect to be viable in the homozygous state .
however , homozygous mutant mouse be not observe , neither amongst live birth nor embryonic day 13.5 ( e13.5 ) or e3.5 embryo ( table 1 ) .
the correspond hypomorphic , mutant allele be thus designate a homozygous lethal ( †xpcs ) .
homozygous lethality of the xpcs allele be likely due to reduce level of expression of this essential protein a a result of gene targeting ( figure 1a ) rather than to the mutation itself .
xpd ablation ( xpdko / ko ) be similarly incompatible with life beyond the early stage of embryogenesis [ 22 ] .
consistent with this interpretation , a different target xpd mutation encode xpdr683w , which be associate with xp in the homozygous state in human , be similarly underexpressed and lethal in the homozygous state ( designate a †xp allele ) ( figure 1a – 1c ; table 1 ; unpublished data ) .
also , a different targeting approach lead to the use of the native 3 ′ utr and removal of the neo gene result in normalisation of xpdxpcs mrna level and viable homozygous xpdxpcs / xpcs ( xpdg602d / g602d ) animal [ 23 ] .
figure 1
targeting of the mouse xpd gene
( a ) schematic representation of the genomic structure and partial restriction map of the wt and target mouse xpd locus .
for the wt xpd allele , shaded box represent cod region of exon 12 and 19 – 23 ; the 3 ′ utr be represent by an open box .
tga indicate the translational stop codon ; polya indicate the polyadenylation signal .
for the xpdttd target allele , the 194 – base pair ( bp ) human xpd cdna fragment fuse to exon 22 be indicate a a strip box include the ttd ( r722w ) mutation indicate by a vertical arrow .
chicken β - globin exon 2 and 3 include the 3 ′ utr be indicate a black box with correspond roman numeral follow by the β - globin polyadenylation signal ( polya* ) .
for the xpd†xp and xpd†xpcs target allele , vertical arrow indicate xpcs ( g602d - encode ) and xp ( r683w - encode ) mutation in exon 19 and 22 , respectively .
the unique 3 ′ probe locate outside the target construct be mark by a thick black line .
restriction site : b , bamhi ; c , clai ; e , ecori ; h , hindiii ; hp , hpai ; sf , sfii .
( b ) southern blot analysis of ecori - digest genomic dna from wt , xpd†xpcs / wt , and xpd†xp / wt recombinant embryonic stem cell clone hybridise with the 3 ′ probe depict in ( a ) .
the wt allele yield a 6.5 - kilobase ( kb ) fragment , whereas both target xpd†xp and xpd†xpcs allele yield a 5.1 - kb fragment .
( c ) genotyping of wt and target allele by pcr use primer f2 , r1 , and mr a indicate in ( a ) yield fragment of 399 bp and 468 bp , respectively .
( d ) rt - pcr detection of mrna expression originate from the target †xp and †xpcs allele in embryonic stem cell clone use primer f1 ( hybridise outside the target construct ) and mr a indicate in ( a ) result in a 1,416 - bp fragment .
( e ) northern blot analysis of total rna isolate from testis of homozygous wt and xpdttd / ttd , heterozygous xpd†xpcs / wt and xpdttd / wt , and compound heterozygous xpd†xpcs / ttd mouse a indicate .
hybridisation with a 1.4 - kb mouse xpd cdna probe detect mrna of 4 , 3.3 , and 2.7 kb from wt , xpd†xpcs , and xpdttd allele , respectively .
an ethidium bromide ( etbr ) – stain gel show the amount of total rna load be show below .
table 1
frequency of xpd†xp / †xp , xpd†xpcs / †xpcs , and compound heterozygous xpd†xp / †xpcs embryo and offspring
“ null ” allele can alleviate developmental delay , skin , and hair feature of ttd
to test the potential of a homozygous lethal “ null ” allele to nevertheless contribute to organismal phenotype , we combine an xpd†xpcs allele with a viable xpdttd allele by cross the correspond heterozygous animal .
similar to hemizygous ttd mouse carry one true xpd knockout allele ( xpdttd / ko ) , compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs mouse be bear at the expect mendelian frequency .
expression from the xpd†xpcs allele be also reduce in the testis of compound heterozygous animal , whereas expression from the xpdttd allele be increase relative to wt by ~ 5-fold ( figure 1e ) .
because of a lack of available antibody and the inability to distinguish amongst various mutant form of xpd differ only by single amino acid substitution , we be unable to ascertain the relative amount of xpd protein from the different allele .
despite reduce level of mrna expression , the homozygous lethal xpd†xpcs allele ameliorate multiple xpdttd - associated disease symptom in compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs animal include the hallmark brittle hair and cutaneous feature fully penetrant in homo - and hemizygous ttd mouse ( figure 2a – 2c ) .
in marked contrast to xpdttd / ttd ( and xpdttd / ko ) mouse , which display complete hair loss in the first hair cycle and partial hair loss in subsequent cycle throughout their life [ 21 ] , compound heterozygous xpdttd/†xpcs mouse display some hair loss only during the first hair cycle and only locally at the back ( figure 2a ) .
scanning electron microscope analysis of xpdttd / †xpcs hair reveal an almost normal appearance , with ttd - like feature such a broken hair find only at very low frequency ( unpublished data ) .
amino acid analysis confirm that cysteine level in the hair of the xpdttd / †xpcs mouse be significantly high than in xpdttd / ttd animal , but remain below the wt level ( figure 2c ) .
ttd hemizygotes ( xpdttd / ko ) do not display significant difference in cutaneous feature and longevity relative to homozygous xpdttd / ttd mouse [ 21 ] .
figure 2
partial rescue of ttd cutaneous , blood , and developmental phenotype in compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs mouse
( a ) photograph of 5 - mo - old homozygous xpdttd / ttd , compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs , and wt mouse .
inset : image of first - round hair loss .
( b ) histological analysis of the skin of xpdttd / ttd , xpdttd / †xpcs , and wt mouse .
ttd - associated acanthosis ( thick epidermis , indicate by solid vertical line ) , pronounce granular layer ( indicate by arrow ) , and sebacious gland hyperplasia ( indicate by dot vertical line ) be absent in the epidermis of xpdttd / †xpcs and wt mouse .
magnification 400 × .
( c ) cysteine content of hair from wt , xpdttd / ttd , and xpdttd / †xpcs mouse .
the p - value indicate significant difference between mutant and wt , as well a between xpdttd / ttd and xpdttd / †xpcs mouse .
error bar indicate standard error of the mean ( sem ) .
( d ) hematocrit value from blood of xpdttd / ttd and xpdttd / †xpcs mouse .
the p - value indicate the significance of the difference relative to wt .
error bar indicate sem .
( e ) body weight of develop xpdttd / ttd and xpdttd / †xpcs mouse after wean plot a a percentage of the weight of age - matched control wt and heterozygote ( hz ) littermates ( set at 100 % ) .
error bar indicate sem .
other prominent ttd feature in the epidermis , include acanthosis ( thicken of the layer of the nucleated cell ) , hyperkeratosis ( prominent thickening of the cornified layer ) , and pronounced granular layer and sebacious gland hyperplasia ( cause greasy appearance of the hair ) , be absent in the skin of xpdttd / †xpcs mouse , a establish by blind microscopic examination of skin section ( figure 2b ) .
furthermore , anaemia and developmental delay present in patient with ttd [ 24 ] and in xpdttd / ttd mouse [ 15 ] be both partially rescue in compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs mouse ( figure 2d and 2e ) .
rescue of progeroid feature in ttd mouse by homozygous lethal xpd allele
because patient with ttd , xpcs , and c ( but not xp ) and the correspond mouse model share similar accelerate progeroid symptom [ 12 , 13 , 15 , 23 ] , we next address ageing - related parameter in compound heterozygous mouse ( figure 3 ) .
whereas xpdttd / ttd animal show reduce bone mineral density a an indication of the early onset of osteoporosis before ~ 14 mo of age [ 15 ] , tail vertebra from compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs mouse be comparable to wt even at 20 mo of age ( figure 3b and 3c ) .
furthermore , whereas xpdttd / ttd mouse develop kyphosis earlier than wt animal ( onset ~ 3 mo versus 12 – 20 mo ) , compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs mouse do not ( figure 3b ) .
overall appearance and body weight curve reveal that ttd - associated age - related premature cachexia and lack of general fitness be fully rescue in compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs mouse ( figure 3a and 3d ) .
finally , the life span of compound heterozygote be extend relative to xpdttd / ttd mouse ( table 2 ) .
figure 3
rescue of ttd - associated segmental progeroid feature in compound heterozygous xpd ttd / †xpcs mouse
( a ) photograph of 20 - mo - old wt , compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs , and homozygous xpdttd / ttd mouse .
note the extreme cachexia ( lack of subcutaneous fat ) in the xpdttd / ttd mouse and the absence of this phenotype in wt and xpdttd / †xpcs mouse .
( b ) radiograph of 20 - mo - old male wt , xpdttd / †xpcs , and xpdttd / ttd mouse .
age xpdttd / ttd mouse develop kyphosis ( curvature of the spinal column ) and reduction of bone mineral density a show in the 6 – 8 segment of the tail vertebra count from the pelvis ( see close - up at right ) .
note the absence of these feature in the xpdttd  /  † xpcs mouse .
( c ) quantification of relative bone mineral density of tail vertebra from 20 - mo - old male wt ( n = 3 ) , xpdttd / †xpcs ( n = 4 ) , and xpdttd / ttd ( n = 3 ) mouse .
the p - value indicate the significance of the difference relative to xpdttd / ttd .
error bar indicate sem .
( d ) body weight curve a a function of time .
note that the age - dependent cachexia observe in xpdttd / ttd mouse be rescue in both male and female xpdttd  /  †xpcs mouse .
significant difference between wt and xpdttd / ttd but not between wt and xpdttd / †xpcs mouse be observe at 9 and 18 mo of age a indicate by asterisk .
error bar indicate sem .
table 2
pleiotropic xpd biallelic effect in mouse and cell
to determine whether the homozygous lethal xpd†xpcs allele be unique in it ability to ameliorate symptom associate with the xpdttd allele , we generate compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xp mouse by cross the correspond heterozygous animal .
similar to the xpd †xpcs allele , the homozygous lethal xpd †xp allele rescue cutaneous symptom include hair loss ( except locally during the first round ; unpublished data ) , reduce cysteine content ( cysteine index 9.3 ± 0.9 standard deviation [ 87 % of wt ] , p = 0.01 versus ttd ) , ageing - associate premature cachexia ( male and female be 36.1 ± 6.4 g [ 93 % of wt ] and 39.2 ± 3.2 g [ 116 % of wt ] , respectively ) , and reduce life span ( table 2 ) .
take together , these data indicate that two independent allele , which on their own be unable to support viability ( table 1 ) , be nonetheless able to ameliorate ttd - associate phenotype in vivo ( table 2 ) .
molecular mechanism of biallelic effect
we next turn to uv - base cellular assay include unscheduled dna synthesis after uv irradiation ( uv - uds ) , recovery of rna synthesis after uv irradiation ( uv - rrs ) , and uv survival , which report on the ner subpathways ( global genome ner and transcription - couple ner ) and total ner , respectively .
in none of these assay be the response to uv improve in compound heterozygote relative to ttd homozygote ( figure 4a – 4c ) .
however , unlike the in vivo ttd phenotype describe above , in which xpdttd / ttd and xpdttd / ko animal be indistinguishable , xpdttd dosage effect be observe in uv survival , uv - uds , and uv - rrs , indicate that cellular parameter a measure in fibroblast here do not always correlate with the phenotype at the level of the intact organism .
xpdttd / ko hemizygous cell be thus use a the baseline on which to compare the activity of compound heterozygous cell .
relative to xpdttd / ko hemizygote cell , uv survival be improve by the homozygous lethal xpd†xpcs allele in xpdttd / †xpcs compound heterozygous cell and to a less degree by the xpd†xp allele ( figure 4a ) .
because of embryonic and cellular lethality , we be unable to test uv survival associate exclusively with the xpd†xpcs or xpd†xp allele .
however , homozygous xpdxp ( xpdr683w ) and hemizygous xpdxpcs ( xpdg602d ) human cell be know to be highly sensitive to uv [ 19 , 25 ] , a be cell from a homozygous viable xpdxpcs / xpcs ( xpdg602d / g602d ) mouse model ( figure 4a , dot line ) [ 23 ] .
thus , the survival of xpdttd / †xpcs ( and xpdttd / †xp ) cell likely represent a level of uv resistance that neither mutant allele can impart on it own ( table 2 ) .
significant effect of compound heterozygosity on ner subpathways relative to xpdttd / ko cell be observe in xpdttd / †xp cell but only for uv - uds activity .
finally , none of the mutant tfiih combination ( carry alteration associate with ttd [ xpdr722w ] , xpcs [ xpdg602d ] , or xp [ xpdr683w ] ) exhibit synergism in an in vitro ner reaction reconstitute with different mutant tfiih complex ( figure 4d ) .
take together , these data be consistent with interallelic complementation of uv sensitivity in cell but underscore the lack of any correlation between uv - relate repair characteristic and ttd progeroid phenotype in animal model .
figure 4
tfiih function and mechanism of xpd - associate disease pleiotropy
( a ) cellular survival after uv irradiation .
rescue of hemizygous xpdttd / ko survival by xpd†xpcs and xpd†xp allele be illustrate by arrow mark a and b , respectively .
uv survival of homozygous xpdxpcs / xpcs cell ( asterisk ) from the normally express viable allele ( xpdxpcs ) be depict by a dot line .
survival curve represent an average of four independent experiment ; 1 – 2 cell line per genotype be include in each experiment .
error bar indicate sem between experiment .
( b ) uv - uds , a measure of global genome repair .
number of experiment : n = 15 ( xpdttd / ttd ) , n = 6 ( xpdttd / ko ) , n = 4 ( xpdttd / †xpcs ) , n = 2 ( xpdttd / †xp ) ; 1 – 2 cell line per genotype be include in each experiment .
the asterisk indicate significant difference with xpdttd / ttd ; cross indicate significant difference with xpdttd / ko .
( c ) uv - rrs , a measure of transcription - couple repair of uv - induce lesion .
number of experiment : n = 7 ( xpdttd / ttd ) , n = 2 ( xpdttd / ko ) , n = 4 ( xpdttd / †xpcs ) , n = 2 ( xpdttd / †xp ) ; 1 – 2 cell line per genotype be include in each experiment .
( d ) incision / excision activity of combination of alter tfiih complex in a reconstitute ner reaction .
equal amount of single or mixed population of recombinant tfiihs ( contain xpd , xpb , p62 , p52 , his - p44 , flag - p34 , cdk7 , cyclin h , mat1 , and p8 ) be mix with recombinant xpg , xpf / ercc1 , xpc / hhr23b , rpa , and a radiolabelled synthetic ner substrate .
the excision product ( 26 – 34 nucleotide in length ) be visualise at nucleotide resolution on a denature polyacrylamide gel a indicate .
note the weak activity correspond to each single and combine tfiih complex ( lane 3 – 8 ) relative to the wt ( lane 1 ) and negative control ( lane 2 ) .
( e ) xpd dose - dependent reduction of tfiih in homozygous xpdttd / ttd , hemizygous xpdttd / ko , and compound heterozygous xpdttd / †xpcs and xpdttd / †xp cell by comparative immunofluorescence of the p62 subunit of tfiih .
roman numeral represent different microscopic slide and arabic numeral different cell line label a follow : ( i ) wt cell ( 1 ) label with 2 - μm bead , xpdttd / ttd cell ( 2 ) with 0.79 - μm bead , and xpdttd / ko cell ( 3 ) with no bead ; ( ii ) wt cell ( 1 ) label with 0.79 - μm bead and xpdttd / †xpcs cell ( 4 ) with no bead ; and ( iii ) wt cell ( 1 ) label with 0.79 - μm bead and xpdttd / †xp cell ( 5 ) with no bead .
( f ) quantification of immunofluorescent signal from at least 50 nucleus per cell line and 2 – 6 experiment per genotype .
bar represent cell analyse on the same microscopic slide be depict side by side , with wt set at 100 % .
the p - value indicate minimum significant difference between wt and the indicate cell line analyse on the same microscopic slide within one experiment .
next we ask whether the xpd†xpcs and xpd†xp allele , despite decrease mrna level , ameliorate ttd symptom by increase overall tfiih level in compound heterozygous xpdttd /  †xpcs and xpdttd /  †xp cell .
previously , use comparative immunohistochemistry , we and others have show an up to 70 % reduction of tfiih level in primary fibroblast from patient with ttd compare with wt control due to reduce stability [ 16 , 17 ] .
despite overexpression of mrna from the xpdttd allele relative to the wt allele ( figure 1e ) , tfiih protein level be reduce by 50 % in primary mouse xpdttd / ttd fibroblast ( figure 4e and 4f ) , thereby mimic the situation in human patient with ttd .
in accordance with the gene dosage , a further reduction of up to 70 % of the wt level be observe in hemizygous xpdttd / ko cell .
consistent with low mrna expression level , neither the xpd†xpcs nor the xpd†xp allele be able to restore tfiih abundance to wt level in xpdttd compound heterozygote cell ( figure 4e and 4f ) .
thus , the improve uv survival observe in compound heterozygote cell ( figure 4a ) and likely the rescue of ttd progeroid symptom ( figure 3 ) be not due to normalisation of tfiih level , suggest a qualitative rather than a quantitative effect on these phenotype in vivo .
in contrast , the level of xpcs mrna expression do affect the ability of the encode protein ( xpdg602d ) to restore the ttd hair phenotype to normal .
notably , xpdttd /  †xpcs animal have a partial ttd hair phenotype , correlate with low level of xpd†xpcs expression , whereas xpdttd / xpcs animal have wt hair , correlate with normal expression level from the viable xpdxpcs allele ( table 2 and unpublished data ) .
thus , the range of expression level from these two mutant allele affect their ability to complement some phenotype ( hair ) .
an overview of the functional relationship between xpd allele , phenotype , and the presume underlie tfiih function in mouse and cell be present in table 2 .
discussion
dissection of biallelic effect from other determinant of phenotype
although phenotypic consequence , refer to here a biallelic effect , result from two different mutant allele in compound heterozygote patient have be postulate , such effect have historically be difficult to distinguish from the influence of environment and genetic background .
we use a genetically define mammalian model system under controlled environmental condition to reveal phenotypic effect attributable specifically to combination of differentially mutate xpd allele .
the observe biallelic effect be of three general type .
in the first , the allele associate in a homozygous state with a phenotype closer to wt singularly determine the phenotypic outcome , a phenomenon widely know in human recessive disease .
because these xpd allele function at or near wt level with respect to a particular function , we call these effect “ dominant ” .
such allele can also be refer to a “ separation of function ” allele , because they allow dissection of the role of multifunctional protein in specific phenotype .
secondly , highlight the potential relevance of current finding to all diploid organism include human be the observation that in one compound heterozygous animal , the xpd allelic relationship could shift from adominant | arecessive to arecessive | adominant with respect to different phenotype in a time - dependent and tissue - specific manner ( see below and table 2 ) .
in the third type of biallelic effect , know a interallelic complementation , two mutant allele produce a phenotype closer to wt than either could alone in a homo - or hemizygous state .
a summarise in table 2 , example of all type of biallelic effect be observe in a variety of xpd - associate phenotype , range from brittle hair to segmental progeria .
tfiih in transcription and repair : mechanism of xpd disease pleiotropy
we observe difference in the ability of xpdttd versus homozygous lethal xpd†xpcs and xpd†xp allele to function in two transcription - relate phenotype separate in the organism by both time and space : embryonic lethality and terminal differentiation of enucleate skin and blood cell .
the preblastocyst - stage homozygous lethality share by the xpdko , xpd†xpcs , and xpd†xp allele most likely reflect a defect in basal transcription that be incompatible with life .
in xpdttd /  †xpcs and xpdttd /  †xp compound heterozygous mouse , embryonic lethality be fully rescue by the xpdttd allele .
because embryonic lethality be also fully rescue in xpdttd / ko hemizygous mouse , the xpdttd allele can be consider a wt and thus dominant to each of the homozygous lethal allele ( xpdko , xpd†xpcs , and xpd†xp ) with respect to this particular phenotype ( table 2 ) .
ttd - specific cutaneous and anaemic feature , on the other hand , be think to result from a specific kind of transcriptional insufficiency cause by depletion of unstable tfiih during the terminal differentiation of skin , hair - shaft , and blood cell [ 16 , 24 ] .
in compound heterozygous mouse , both homozygous lethal xpd†xpcs and xpd†xp allele be able to alleviate xpdttd - specific cutaneous and anaemic feature and can thus be define a dominant over the xpdttd allele with respect to these phenotype .
we conclude that the defect lead to embryonic lethality and aberrant terminal differentiation of the skin , hair , and blood represent two qualitatively and / or quantitatively different transcriptional deficiency .
during early embryonic development , xpdttd be dominant over the xpd†xpcs and xpd†xp allele , whereas later in the ontogenesis of skin , hair - shaft , and blood cell , the situation be reverse .
in it role in the repair of uv photolesions , the xpd†xpcs allele impart a clear uv survival benefit over a single xpdttd allele or two xpdxpcs allele independent of expression level , which be consistent with interallelic complementation .
however , the observation that no other cellular or biochemical uv - relate parameter be improve in xpdttd /  †xpcs argue against complementation of this repair activity in the rescue of ttd progeroid symptom in vivo .
interallelic complementation and xpd function
what do interallelic complementation tell u about the mechanism of xpd function ?
interallelic complementation be most often observe in multimeric protein with multiple functional domain .
unfortunately , the structure – function relationship between disease - cause mutation and xpd functional domain , include detailed structural information on xpd or even it stoichiometry within tfiih , remain unknown .
however , base on the ability of cell extract that be defective in two different tfiih component ( xpd and xpb ) to complement ner activity in vitro [ 26 ] , it be likely that tfiih ( or it component ) can either multimerise or exchange at least during the ner reaction .
furthermore , xpd be know to be a “ loosely bind ” subunit of tfiih [ 27 ] .
we thus envisage the molecular mechanism of interallelic complementation to involve the exchange of xpd molecule within the tfiih complex or turnover of tfiih complex contain different xpd molecule at the site of dna damage during the course of the global genome as well a transcription - couple repair of either uv - induce or endogenous dna damage .
a biallelic paradigm for xpd disorder
recently , protein originate from presume null allele be biochemically characterise a inactive in basal transcription [ 27 ] , provide an explanation a to why these allele fail to rescue lethality in haploid s. pombe with a null mutation in the xpd homologue rad15 [ 19 ] .
our data suggest that certain presume null allele , although unable on their own to support basal transcription , may in fact have a substantial impact on disease outcome in compound heterozygous human , a they do in mouse model .
clinical evidence in support of this hypothesis come from a number of xp complementation group d patient that do not fit within the framework of the current monoallelic paradigm of xpd disorder ( figure 5 ) .
in contrast to two hemizygous xpdxpcs patient carry the xpdg47r - or xpdr666w - encode allele who die of the disease before 2 y of age , two compound heterozygous xpdxpcs patient carry the same xpdg47r - or xpdr666w - encode allele in addition to the presume null xpdl461v + del716 − 730 both have considerably mild disease symptom and survive more than ten time longer ( a. lehmann , personal communication ) ( figure 5 ) .
compound heterozygosity be also associate with the recently report combination xp and ttd ( xpttd ) syndrome [ 8 ] .
similar to the xpdttd / †xpcs and xpdttd / †xp mouse describe here , both patient with xpttd describe so far have intermediate hair cysteine value .
furthermore , xpttd patient xp38br carry a “ causative ” ttd mutation in one allele and a novel point mutation encode xpdl485p in the other .
although the xpdl485p - encode allele fail to complement viability in the haploid s. pombe rad15 deletion strain and be thus interpretable a a null allele [ 8 ] , we nonetheless suggest that the combined xpttd phenotype in this patient involve phenotypic contribution from both allele .
take together , these data suggest a shift to a biallelic paradigm for compound heterozygous patient in xp complementation group d .
figure 5
genotype – phenotype relationship in xpd disorder
accord to the current monoallelic hypothesis , phenotype be determine solely by the causative allele product .
if a second , different allele be present , it be consider a functional null .
there be a lack of any correlation between the site of the xpd mutation and the result disorder .
we propose a biallelic hypothesis for compound heterozygote in which both allele can contribute to the phenotype .
example of compound heterozygous patient in which a second , presumed null allele be likely to contribute to disease outcome be provide above in comparison to correspond homo - or hemizygous patient with the same causative allele .
number in the schematic of the protein indicate the helicase domain .
potential of combine recessive allele to affect phenotypic diversity in mammal
in human , the clinical relevance of biallelic effect such a interallelic complementation remain unknown .
although interallelic complementation between two endogenous mutant allele have be describe in cell from a compound heterozygous patient with methylmalonic acidaemia , no observable effect on disease outcome be note in the patient [ 28 ] .
thus , to the best of our knowledge , the amelioration of progeroid feature observe here be the first in vivo demonstration in compound heterozygous animal of interallelic complementation relevant to a human disease .
keep in mind that the ~ 1,200 allele know to exist for the ctrf gene implicate in the common autosomal recessive disorder cystic fibrosis alone [ 29 ] can theoretically result in ~ 700,000 different allelic combination , the potential number of allelic combination of different recessive mutation and single nucleotide polymorphism genome - wide be currently incalculable .
we suggest biallelic effect a a previously underestimate yet important variable in consider genotype – phenotype relationship from autosomal recessive disease to normal phenotypic diversity in mammal .
extension of the above concept imply that recessive mutation can enter evolutionary selection in f1 provide that the second allele carry a different recessive alteration .
finally , our data highlight the potential of clinically relevant allele previously designate a null , with little or no detectable expression or activity , to nonetheless contribute to phenotype .
material and method
derivation and analysis of mutant mouse .
generation of xpdttd ( xpdr722w ) and xpdttd / ko mouse have be describe previously [ 21 , 22 ] .
a detailed description of the generation of target construct for xpd†xpcs and xpd †xp allele carry mutation encode the g602d and r683w alteration will be provide upon request .
chimeric mouse and mouse embryonic fibroblast be generate accord to standard procedure .
haematoxylin and eosin staining be perform accord to standard procedure .
amino acid analysis be conduct a describe in [ 21 ] .
blood value be analyse use animal blood counter vet ( abx diagnostix , montpellier , france ) .
radiograph be take , and relative bone mineral density be calculate a describe in [ 15 ] .
mouse use in this study be in a 129ola / c57bl6 mixed background unless note differently .
all experiment involve mouse be judge and approve by the national committee for genetic identification of organism and the animal ethical committee , and be conduct accord to national and international guideline .
uv sensitivity , uv - uds , uv - rrs , and tfiih incision / excision activity .
uv survival , uv - uds , and uv - rrs assay be perform a describe previously [ 21 , 30 ] .
for uv - rrs , average value from the representative experiment contain two wt , three xpdttd / ttd , two xpdttd / xpcs , and one xpdttd / xp cell line be present .
the ~ 48 % uv - uds value present in this study for xpdttd / ttd cell differ from our previously publish data of 25 % uv - uds [ 21 ] , possibly because of the high variability intrinsic to the assay or routine variation in the cell culture condition .
for the incision / excision activity assay , recombinant tfiih be prepare and assay a describe previously [ 27 ] .
comparative immunofluorescence .
latex bead labelling and comparative immunofluorescence analysis of the p62 subunit of the tfiih be perform a describe previously [ 16 , 17 ] use primary mouse embryonic fibroblast at passage 2 – 5 .
two or more cell line per genotype ( except for the xpdttd / †xp cell , in which only one cell line be use in repeat experiment ) be use , and experiment be repeat 2 – 6 time per genotype .
acknowledgement
we be very grateful to steven bergink , koos jasper , and bjorn schumacher for thoughtful discussion and critical reading of the manuscript and to ruud koppenol and tom de vries for photography .
author contribution .
joa , jj , jhjh , gtjvdh , and jrm conceive and design the experiment .
joa , jj , jdw , fc , dh , mvdv , wt , jh , wjvl , and jrm perform the experiment .
joa , jj , jdw , fc , dh , mvdv , jh , hbt , wjvl , jme , jhjh , and jrm analyze the data .
jdb and gtjvdh contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
joa , jhjh , and jrm write the paper .
fund .
this research be support by the netherlands organization for scientific research ( nwo ) through the foundation of the research institute for disease of the elderly , as well a grant from the national institute of health ( 1po1 ag17242–02 ) , national institute of environmental health science ( 1uo1 es011044 ) , european commission ( qrtl - 1999 – 02002 ) , and the dutch cancer society ( eur 99 – 2004 ) .
jrm be a fellow of the damon runyon cancer research fund ( drg 1677 ) .
abbreviation
bp - base pair
c - cockayne syndrome
e [ number ] - embryonic day [ number ]
kb - kilobase
ner - nucleotide excision repair
sem - standard error of the mean
tfiih - basal transcription / dna repair factor iih
ttd - trichothiodystrophy
uv - rrs - recovery of rna synthesis after ultraviolet irradiation
uv - uds - unscheduled dna synthesis after ultraviolet irradiation
wt - wild - type
xp - xeroderma pigmentosum
xpcs - xeroderma pigmentosum combine with cockayne syndrome
xpttd - combination xeroderma pigmentosum and trichothiodystrophy
footnote
compete interest .
the author have declare that no compete interest exist .
¤ a current address : institute of biotechnology , university of helsinki , helsinki , finland
¤ b current address : department of molecular and cell biology , university of california berkeley , berkeley , california , united state of america
¤ c current address : institute for biomedical technology , university of twente , bilthoven , netherlands
persistent amyloidosis follow suppression of aβ production in a transgenic model of alzheimer disease
abstract
background
the protease ( secretase ) that cleave amyloid - β ( aβ ) peptide from the amyloid precursor protein ( app ) have be the focus of considerable investigation in the development of treatment for alzheimer disease .
the prediction have be that reduce aβ production in the brain , even after the onset of clinical symptom and the development of associate pathology , will facilitate the repair of damage tissue and removal of amyloid lesion .
however , no long - term study use animal model of amyloid pathology have yet be perform to test this hypothesis .
method and finding
we have generate a transgenic mouse model that genetically mimic the arrest of aβ production expect from treatment with secretase inhibitor .
these mouse overexpress mutant app from a vector that can be regulate by doxycycline .
under normal condition , high - level expression of app quickly induce fulminant amyloid pathology .
we show that doxycycline administration inhibit transgenic app expression by great than 95 % and reduce aβ production to level find in nontransgenic mouse .
suppression of transgenic aβ synthesis in this model abruptly halt the progression of amyloid pathology .
however , formation and disaggregation of amyloid deposit appear to be in disequilibrium a the plaque require far longer to disperse than to assemble .
mouse in which app synthesis be suppress for as long a 6 mo after the formation of aβ deposit retain a considerable amyloid load , with little sign of active clearance .
conclusion
this study demonstrate that amyloid lesion in transgenic mouse be highly stable structure in vivo that be slow to disaggregate .
our finding suggest that arrest aβ production in patient with alzheimer disease should halt the progression of pathology , but that early treatment may be imperative , a it appear that amyloid deposit , once form , will require additional intervention to clear .
introduction
over a decade ago the amyloid cascade hypothesis predict that increase level of amyloid - β ( aβ ) peptide lead to secondary pathology that ultimately culminate in the onset of alzheimer disease ( ad ) [ 1 ] .
early support for this hypothesis come from genetic study link early - onset ad to mutation in the amyloid precursor protein ( app ) , from which aβ be derive , and presenilins 1 and 2 , which be interchangeable component of a endoprotease complex that release aβ from app ( for review see [ 2 , 3 ] ) .
if , a predict , overproduction of aβ initiate the cascade of event lead to disease , then therapeutic strategy that lower aβ level should either arrest or reverse the progression from peptide to dementia .
early evidence from clinical trial of antibody - mediate clearance , one of the first aβ - lower approach test in human , suggest that treatment design to reduce amyloid burden may indeed be beneficial .
although the trial be halt because of adverse effect in a subset of volunteer [ 4 , 5 ] , further analysis of several patient find evidence that amyloid pathology , and to a less degree cognitive function , be improve in proportion to the patient 's titer of aβ - specific antibody [ 6 , 7 ] .
while this approach be promising , constant exposure to antibody that recognize an epitope highly enrich in the brain may have unexpected side effect that will limit it long - term use .
an alternative approach that be be actively pursue for future treatment of ad seek to lower aβ level by limit it production from the precursor protein app .
peptide aβ be release from app by the action of two enzyme , the β - app cleave enzyme 1 ( bace1 ) and γ - secretase , which cleave the holoprotein at the n - and c - terminus of aβ , respectively .
several inhibitor of γ - secretase have already be produce [ 8 , 9 ] , and small molecule inhibitor of β - app cleave enzyme 1 be currently be develop [ 10 , 11 ] .
the long - term effectiveness of this approach in either human or model system , however , have not be report .
although loss of β - app cleave enzyme 1 function can prevent the development of plaque in transgenic mouse model for ad ( f. laird , h. cai , p. c. wong , personal communication ) , it be not know whether the brain can clear pre-existing amyloid deposit once production of aβ have be suppress .
clearly , the amyloid - lower approach should be rigorously examine in animal model before these reagent be test in patient .
however , the chemical secretase inhibitor most likely to reach human trial be still in development .
therefore , we develop a mouse model of alzheimer - type amyloid that express a controllable app transgene .
this system , commonly know a the tet - off system , can be regulate by analog of tetracycline administer in food or water [ 12 , 13 ] .
the strong expression level produce with the tet - off vector , combine with the ability to reduce this expression by several order of magnitude with tetracycline [ 14 ] , allow for a stringent test of how a highly effective pharmaceutical inhibitor of aβ production would impact the progression of amyloid pathology and whether reversal of these lesion might be possible follow such treatment .
method
transgene construction
we create a tetracycline - responsive chimeric mouse / human app695swedish / indiana ( swe / ind ) vector by replace the promoter region of the moprp.xhoi vector ( also know a pprppe1 / e2 , 3sal [ 15 ] ) with the tetracycline - responsive promoter of ptetsplice ( life technology , rockville , maryland , united state ) , and then ligate mouse app with a humanized aβ domain ( mo / huapp695 ) cdna into the new vector .
we begin by clone the tetracycline - responsive promoter ( bp 6 – 481 ) from ptetsplice by pcr use primer that add external bamhi and noti site to the 5 ′ end and a bamhi site to the 3 ′ end , while destroy xhoi and bamhi site within the promoter ( forward : gcc gga tcc gcg gcc gcc gtc gag ttt acc act ccc tat c ; reverse : gcc gga tcc act cta gaa gat ccc cgg gta ccg ) .
we then isolate the moprp.xhoi intron by amplification with primer that add an external bamhi site to the 5 ′ end of exon 1 and run through the asp718 site of exon 2 ( forward : gcc gga tcc gat cag cag acc gat tct gg ; reverse : gcc ggt acc act agg aag gca gaa tgc ) .
this 2 - kb intron fragment be clone into a ta cloning vector ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) , then excise by asp718 digestion and ligate to the 6.8 - kb asp718 fragment of moprp.xhoi contain exon 2 , exon 3 , the 3 ′ utr , and pbluescript to generate an intermediate vector with all three exon and a central intron but no promoter .
this vector be then open at the bamhi site introduce by the intron cloning primer , and ligate to the 0.5 - kb bamhi - cut tetracycline promoter fragment .
this ligation generate a 9.3 - kb vector encode the tetracycline promoter from ptetsplice with two exon , one intron , and the original 3 ′ utr of the moprp.xhoi vector , all carry in the pbluescript cloning vector .
we incorporate the swedish ( km570 / 571nl ) and indiana ( v617f ) mutation into the mo / huapp695 cdna ( in b - k ) by pcr use a four - primer strategy : first , two partially overlap product be generate in separate reaction use primer that encode the desire mutation ( swedish forward : gga gat ctc tga agt gaa tct gga tgc aga att ccg / indiana reverse : ggg tga tga aaa tca cgg ttg c ; indiana forward : caa ccg tga ttt tca tca ccc tgg / m13 reverse ) .
the two pcr product be ligate , digest with bglii and apai and clone back into the original mo / huapp695 - b - k vector .
finally , the new app695swe / ind be subcloned into the xhoi site of the moprp - tetp vector from above to complete the construct .
pronuclear injection , screening of founder , and maintenance of the line
the moprp - tetp - mo / huapp695swe / ind vector be linearize and the pbluescript domain excise by digestion with noti .
the purify vector be inject into the pronucleus of fertilize egg from c57bl / 6j × c3hej f1 mating .
founder animal be screen for the presence of the transgene by three - way pcr use the s36 and prp - s / prp - a primer describe below .
transgene - positive founder be breed to animal express the tetracycline transactivator ( tta ) under control of the calcium - calmodulin kinase iiα ( camkiiα ) promoter obtain from jackson laboratory [ 16 ] ( bar harbor , maine , united state ; stock # 3010 ; b6 ; cba - tgn [ camk2a - tta ] 1mmay ) .
the colony be thereafter maintain by cross single transgenic tta and app offspring for each of the four app line .
all mouse be provide fresh food and water ad libitum .
animal protocol be approve by both the john hopkins university and the california institute of technology institutional animal care and use committee .
doxycycline administration
doxycycline ( dox ) be administer through commercially available dox - contain chow ( bioserv , frenchtown , new jersey , united state ) .
the chow contain 200 mg / kg of antibiotic ; base on estimate consumption of 5 g per mouse per day , the expect dose to each animal be 1 mg dox per day .
the average 25 - g animal therefore receive 40 μg of dox per gram body weight per day .
chow be change 1 – 2 time per week to prevent breakdown of the antibiotic .
genotyping
offspring be genotyped for the presence of each transgene by pcr amplification of genomic dna extract from a 5 - mm tail biopsy .
tail be heat to 95 °c for 45 min in 250 μl of 50 mm naoh , vortexed , then neutralize with an equal volume of 0.5 m tris - hcl ( ph 5.5 ) .
debris be sediment by centrifugation , and 3 μl of supernatant be use for amplification .
genotyping for app and tta transgene be perform in the same pcr reaction , use five separate primer .
app be amplify use forward primer s36 locate in the 3 ′ end of the app cdna ( ccg aga tct ctg aag tga aga tgg atg ) and reverse primer prp - a - j locate in the 3 ′ utr of the vector ( cca agc cta gac cac gag aat gc ) .
the tta transgene be detect use a primer set that amplify across it two subdomains with tet forward locate within the tn10 tetracycline repressor ( cgc tgt ggg gca ttt tac ttt ag ) and tet reverse within the hsv1 vp16 ( cat gtc cag atc gaa atc gtc ) .
all reaction , whether transgene - positive or not , amplify a segment of the endogenous prion protein gene a a control for dna quality use a forward primer , prp - s - j , specific to the mouse prp open reading frame ( ggg act atg tgg act gat gtc gg ) and a reverse primer , prp - a - j , share by the 3 ′ utr of the endogenous prp gene and the transgene vector .
amplification reaction be run for 37 cycle at 94 °c for 30 s , 64 °c for 1 min , and 72 °c for 1 min .
all sample , transgenic and wild - type , give a 750 - bp product from the endogenous prp gene .
the app transgene yield an additional band at 400 bp ; the tta product fell in between at 480 bp .
immunoblotting / quantitation
freeze cortical or whole forebrain tissue be homogenize by sonication in five volume of phosphate - buffer saline ( pb ) with 5 mm edta and protease inhibitor ( mammalian cell cocktail , sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) , use a probe sonicator set to 50 % output ( tekmar , cincinnati , ohio , united state ) .
after dilution with an equal volume of pb / edta / protease inhibitor , the sample be centrifuge briefly and the supernatant use for analysis .
fifty microgram ( 6e10 and ct15 ) or 5 μg ( 22c11 ) of brain homogenate be load per lane onto 7.5 % , 10 % – 20 % , or 4 % – 20 % tris - hcl page gel ( bio - rad laboratory , hercules , california , united state ) and electrophoresed for several hour in 1 × tris - glycine – sodium dodecyl sulfate ( 1 × tg - sd ) buffer ( 6e10 and 22c11 ; amresco , solon , ohio , united state ) or 1 × tris - tricine - sd buffer ( ct15 ; invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) .
protein be transfer overnight to 0.45 - μm optitran nitrocellulose ( schleicher and schuell , keene , new hampshire , united state ) in 1 × tg buffer ( amresco ) .
blot be block in pb contain 5 % nonfat dry milk powder , and incubate for 3 h at room temperature in blocking solution with one of the follow antibody : mouse monoclonal 22c11 ( kind gift of konrad beyreuther and andreas weidemann ; [ 17 ] ) dilute 1 : 1,000 , mouse monoclonal 6e10 ( signet laboratory , dedham , massachusetts , united state ) dilute 1 : 2,500 , rabbit polyclonal anti-superoxide dismutase 1 ( m / hsod1 ) [ 18 ] dilute 1 : 2,500 to 1 : 4,000 , or rabbit polyclonal ct15 ( kind gift of ed koo ; [ 19 ] ) dilute 1 : 1,000 .
subsequently , the blot be wash with pb contain 0.1 % tween - 20 , and then incubate with either goat anti-mouse – or goat anti-rabbit – hrp conjugate secondary antibody dilute 1 : 1,000 in blocking solution .
after several additional rinse in pb with 0.1 % tween - 20 , blot be develop with enhance chemiluminescence reagent and image with the bio - rad molecular imager fx system .
staining intensity within each lane be quantify use the quantity one image analysis software ( molecular imager fx , bio - rad laboratory ) .
background be calculate from across the image and subtract from the entire file .
the signal intensity for each band ( correct signal intensity × pixel number ) be then calculate use the volume report tool .
slot blot mrna analysis
five microgram per sample of total rna extract from fresh - freeze brain , liver , kidney , heart , lung , spleen , and skeletal muscle be vacuum - filter through 0.45 - μm optitran nitrocellulose .
after several wash through the manifold with 10 × ssc , blot be uv - cross-link and probe with a radiolabeled ∼ 350 - bp bglii – xhoi cdna fragment of mo / huapp695 cdna .
after hybridize overnight at 65 °c in 1 % bsa / 1 mm edta / 0.5 m sodium phosphate buffer ( ph 7.2 ) / 7 % sd [ 20 ] , the blot be wash twice at 65 °c for 30 min each in 0.1 % bsa / 1 mm edta / 40 mm sodium phosphate buffer ( ph 7.2 ) / 5 % sd before two final 30 - min wash at 65 °c with 1 mm edta / 40 mm sodium phosphate buffer ( ph 7.2 ) / 1 % sd .
blot be wrap wet and expose to phosphorscreens overnight at room temperature .
amyloid histology
mouse be euthanized by ether inhalation and brain remove for immersion fixation in 4 % paraformaldehyde / 1 × pb .
after 48 h in fixative at 4 °c , brain be transfer to pb , dehydrate in alcohol , treat with cedarwood oil and methylsalicylate , and embed in paraffin for section .
hirano silver stain
silver impregnation histology be perform on 10 - μm paraffin - embed section by hirano 's modification of the bielschowsky method [ 21 ] .
briefly , section be deparaffinized through xylene and alcohol into tap water before be place into fresh 20 % silver nitrate solution for 20 min .
after be wash thoroughly with distilled water , slide be immerse in 20 % silver nitrate solution titrate with fresh ammonium hydroxide .
after 20 min , slide be wash with ammonia water before be individually develop with 100 μl of developer ( 20 ml of 37 % formaldehyde , 100 ml of distilled water , 50 μl of concentrate nitric acid , and 0.5 g of citric acid ) add to 50 ml of titrate silver nitrate solution .
slide be then rinse in tap water , fix in 5 % sodium thiosulfate , and dehydrate through alcohol and xylene .
thioflavin - s staining
follow deparaffinization of section through xylene and alcohol , amyloid impregnation with thioflavin - s be perform accord to the guntern modification of the standard protocol .
slide hold 10 - μm paraffin section be wash twice in distilled water , then immerse for 5 min in a 0.25 % potassium permanganate solution , follow by 5 min in a 1 % potassium metabisulfate / 1 % oxalic acid solution .
after this preparation , slide be place into a filter aqueous 0.02 % thioflavin - s solution ( chroma - gesellschaft schmid , kongen , germany ) for 8 min .
excess stain be remove by two brief rinse in 80 % ethanol , then two in distilled water , after which slide be finish in aqueous mounting medium for florescence photomicrography .
ubiquitin , glial fibrillary acidic protein , and aβ immunohistochemistry
prior to immunostaining , slide be deparaffinized by oven heating follow by immersion in xylene .
after rehydration through grade alcohol into tap water , endogenous peroxidase activity be quench by incubation with 3 % hydrogen peroxide in methanol .
slide be microwave for 5 – 7 min in water , cool for 5 min , then wash in tb .
nonspecific staining be block for 1 h with 3 % normal goat serum and 0.1 % triton - x 100 in tb .
slide be then place into primary antibody ( rabbit anti-aβ peptide polyclonal antibody , zymed laboratory , south san francisco , california , united state ; rabbit anti-ubiquitin and rabbit anti–glial fibrillary acidic protein ( gfap ) polyclonal antibody , dako , carpinteria , california , united state ) dilute 1 : 500 in tb with 2 % normal goat serum and incubate overnight at room temperature .
after be wash of excess primary antibody with several change of tb , slide be incubate with either the vectastain elite anti-rabbit secondary system ( anti-aβ ; vector laboratory , burlingame , california , united state ) or peroxidase / anti-peroxidase reagent ( anti-ubitquitin and anti-gfap ; sternberger monoclonal , lutherville , maryland , united state ) accord to the manufacturer ' direction .
antibody binding be visualize with diaminobenzidene , and section be counterstained with hematoxylin .
filter trap assay
an aliquot of each cortical homogenate use for western blotting above be partially solubilized by the addition of sd to a final concentration of 1 % .
serial 1 : 2 dilution be make with 1 × pb / 1 % sd , and 100 μl of each dilution be then vacuum - filter through a pre-wet 0.22 - μm cellulose acetate membrane ( schleicher and schuell ) [ 22 ] .
each well be wash several time with pb , after which blot be incubate overnight with polyclonal anti-aβ antibody ( zymed laboratory ) dilute 1 : 600 in a blocking solution of 1 × tb / 5 % nonfat dry milk powder .
after wash the blot three time for 10 min each in 1 × tb / 0.1 % tween - 20 , the membrane be incubate for 1 h with hrp - conjugate protein a ( sigma ) dilute 1 : 5,000 in blocking solution .
the membrane be again wash three time with 1 × tb / 0.1 % tween - 20 , before antibody binding be detect with enhance chemiluminescence ( perkinelmer , boston , massachusetts , united state ) .
digital image of each blot be capture with a molecular imager fx gel documentation system , and the intensity of aβ staining be quantify use quantity one image analysis software .
aβ elisa
an aliquot of cortical homogenate generate for western analysis describe above be subject to a three - step sequential extraction use pb , 2 % sd , and 70 % formic acid ( fa ) .
at each step , the sample be sonicated in appropriate buffer and centrifuge at 100,000g for 30 min ( 1 - to 1.5 - mo sample ) or 60 min ( 6 - to 12 - mo sample ) at 4 °c a previously describe [ 23 – 25 ] .
the supernatant be remove for analysis , and the pellet be sonicated in the next solution in sequence .
the 2 % sd extract be dilute in ec buffer , and the fa extract neutralize with 1m tris - phosphate buffer ( ph 11 ) then dilute with ec buffer prior to testing .
human aβ be measure in each fraction use ban50 for capture ( epitope aβ1 – 16 ) and ba27 and bc05 for detection ( aβ40 and aβ42 , respectively ) ( takeda chemical industry , osaka , japan ) .
total aβ ( mouse + human ; 1 - to 1.5 - mo sample only ) be measure in each fraction use bnt77 for capture ( epitope aβ11 – 28 ) and ba27 and bc05 for detection .
all value be calculate a picomoles per gram base on the initial weight of cortical tissue .
activity monitoring
daily basal activity be study in 28 camkiiα - tta × tet - appswe / ind line 107 mouse between 4 and 5 mo of age .
animal be separate into individual cage immediately before the start of each experiment ( n = 3 – 6 per genotype untreated , 2 – 5 per genotype dox - rear ) .
the cage be place inside activity - monitor frame design to count every time the animal pass through one of three photobeams span the width of the cage ( san diego instrument , san diego , california , united state ) .
experiment be start midway through the light phase of the day , and data be collect in 1 - h bin for the following 48 h .
testing room be maintain on the same 13 : 11 h day : night cycle a the main animal housing area and be close to entry during the experiment .
statistical analysis
statistical analysis of protein expression , elisa data , and filter trap assay be perform by anova with tukey 's honest significant difference post - hoc test apply to significant main effect or interaction ( statistica 6.0 , statsoft , tulsa , oklahoma , united state ) .
in case of positively skew data distribution , log10 ( x + 0.5 ) transformation be apply to the raw data before submit them to anova .
result
we use the tet - off transgene system to express a double mutant version of chimeric mo / huapp695 ( swe / ind km570 , 571nl , and v617f ) from a tetracycline - responsive promoter [ 12 , 13 ] .
transgenic app expression be activate by cross the appswe / ind mouse to animal produce tta under control of the camkiiα promoter [ 16 ] .
after initial screening of founder , we identify four line of tet - appswe / ind mouse that produce very high level of transgene product in offspring coexpressing tta ( figure 1 and figure s1 ) .
compare to a standard app transgenic line use for previous amyloid study by our laboratory ( line c3 – 3 ; [ 15 , 26 , 27 ] ) , we estimate that the four controllable line produce transgenic app protein at 10 - to 30-fold over endogenous level ( figure s1 ) .
this estimate be confirm by direct comparison of app level in nontransgenic and tet - off app mouse use an antibody that recognize both endogenous app ( and amyloid precursor - like protein 2 ) and the transgenic protein ( monoclonal antibody 22c11 ; figure 1d ) .
importantly , all four new line of tet - off app mouse show nearly complete suppression of the transgene follow dox treatment ( figure 1 and figure s1 ) .
we focus on one of the four line , line 107 , to examine in more detail the time dependence and extent of transgene suppression follow either acute or chronic treatment with dox .
two dox - treat group be compare to two untreated group : one group of mouse be bear and raise on dox , a second group be treat with dox for 2 wk start at 1 mo of age ( 4 wk + 2 wk dox ) ; two untreated group keep on normal chow be harvest at either 4 or 6 wk of age .
animal bear and raise on dox harbor no transgenic app ( figure 1a ) .
follow as little a 2 wk of dox treatment , transgenic app expression be reduce by more than 95 % compare to pre-dox level .
the residual expression remain in acutely treat mouse represent less than 4 % of the transgenic protein produce in the absence of dox ( figure 1c ) , and likely result from slight leakage at the level of transcription ( data not show ) .
importantly , the total amount of app ( endogenous plus transgenic ) and related aplps in both acute and chronically treat animal be statistically indistinguishable from that in nontransgenic mouse ( figure 1d ; statistical analysis for experiment throughout the study be present in the accompany figure legend ) .
to ensure that aβ production be suppress in concert with the dox - mediate inhibition of it precursor appswe / ind , we measure aβ40 and aβ42 level by elisa in forebrain homogenate from young tet - off animal .
at 1 mo of age , the mouse lack visible amyloid aggregate that might act a an intractable reservoir of peptide remain in the brain after the transgene have be suppress .
to far ensure we could detect any such insoluble aggregate that might bias our measure of change in peptide synthesis , we perform a sequential three - step extraction with pb , 2 % sd , and 70 % fa that would separate peptide by solubility .
we compare the level of human transgene - derive aβ40 and aβ42 in untreated mouse at 4 and 6 wk of age to animal that have either be bear and raise on dox or that have be leave untreated for 4 wk and then place on dox chow for 2 wk prior to harvest ( the same group describe above for immunoblot analysis of appswe / ind level , line 107 ) .
consistent with the reduction in full - length appswe / ind synthesis show by immunoblot ( see figure 1 ) , we find that transgene - derive aβ level be completely suppress in animal bear and raise on dox , and be sharply reduce follow acute ( 2 wk ) antibiotic treatment .
compare to the level in untreated 4 - wk - old mouse , pb - soluble aβ42 drop by 95.2 % follow 2 wk of dox treatment and by 99.2 % with chronic treatment ( figure 2a ) .
similarly , sd - soluble aβ42 decrease by 75.2 % and 94.8 % follow 2 - wk or lifelong dox treatment ( figure 2b ) .
only the fa fraction reveal a small dox - resistant pool of peptide in acutely treat animal that we believe represent stable predeposit aggregate that have already accumulate by 4 wk of age when treatment be begin ( figure 2c ) .
indeed , animal that be bear and raise on dox do not harbor this reservoir of treatment - resistant peptide , with 96.3 % less aβ42 than untreated 4 - wk - old mouse .
measurement of total aβ in chronically treat mouse , include endogenous and transgene - derive peptide , demonstrate that aβ level in tet - off app mouse be reduce to the level of endogenous peptide find in nontransgenic animal ( figure 2d ) .
take together with the immunoblotting data for full - length appswe / ind , the elisa measurement indicate that dox - mediate suppression of transgenic appswe / ind synthesis lead to parallel reduction of aβ level .
the elisa data also confirm that incorporation of the swedish and indiana mutation lead to high level of aβ42 , which we predict would induce rapid plaque formation in untreated animal .
histological characterization of double transgenic ( camkiiα - tta × tet - appswe / ind ) mouse reveal early - onset amyloid formation in all four new line .
amyloid plaque be see in mouse as young a 8 wk of age ( data not show ) .
plaque be limit to the forebrain , include the cortex , hippocampus , olfactory bulb , and striatum , where the camkiiα promoter be know to be most active [ 16 , 28 ] ( figure s2 ) .
by 6 mo of age , amyloid burden become severe , cover large area of the cortex and hippocampus ( figure s3 ) .
no lesion be see in the cerebellum or brain stem even at late age , consistent with camkiiα - control transgene expression .
unlike what be think to occur in the human disease , the first visible plaque in the tet - off app mouse be fibrillar - core deposit .
we have note the same early appearance of core deposit in other line of app transgenic mouse that harbor the swedish mutation [ 27 ] .
diffuse plaque be apparent in 6 - mo - old tta / app mouse , and become relatively abundant by 9 mo of age .
at old age ( 9 – 12 mo ) amyloid deposit be visible in the thalamus , which have also be observe in mouse express mutant app via the thy - 1 promoter .
the presence of amyloid pathology in this region have be attribute to axonal transport of app / aβ to the terminal of cortical neuron in the thalamus [ 29 ] .
most importantly , only double transgenic mouse , express both the tta and app transgene , develop amyloid lesion .
single transgenic mouse up to 15 mo of age show no sign of pathology ( figure s3 ) .
similarly , amyloid pathology can be completely prevent in double transgenic animal bear and raise on dox .
animal from our high express line ( line 885 ) maintain on dox for up to 1 y harbor no amyloid pathology ( data not show ) , indicate that residual leakage of transgene expression in the presence of dox do not provide sufficient aβ peptide to induce amyloid formation even over long period .
to mimic therapeutic intervention with inhibitor of aβ production , we raise a group of 25 double transgenic mouse ( camkiiα - tta × app line 107 ) on normal food until 6 mo of age , when we know amyloid formation be already well underway in the brain .
at 6 mo , half of the animal be switch from normal chow to food contain dox at 200 mg / kg until they be sacrifice at 9 or 12 mo of age .
the remain control animal be keep on standard chow ( untreated ) .
in all , four cohort be create : 6 mo untreated ( n = 7 ) , 9 mo untreated ( n = 5 ) , 6 mo + 3 mo treat ( n = 8 ) , and 6 mo + 6 mo treat ( n = 5 ) .
full suppression ( > 95 % ) of transgenic appswe / ind level in the dox - treat animal be confirm by immunoblot ( figure 3 ) .
to ensure that the transgene could be suppress as rapidly in 6 - mo - old mouse with fulminant pathology a it can in young , predeposit animal , we treat an additional set of 6 - mo - old animal with dox for 1 wk prior to harvest .
importantly , both appswe / ind and app – c - terminal fragment level be fully suppress after only 1 wk of treatment , indicate that the in vivo half - life of appswe / ind and it process c - terminal fragment be relatively short ( figure 3d ) .
tissue section from each animal in the four treatment group be stain for amyloid pathology by hirano silver , campbell - switzer silver , thioflavin - s , and aβ immunohistochemistry .
a expect , the 6 mo untreated cohort display moderate amyloid pathology , and the 9 mo untreated cohort progress to a severe amyloid burden .
in contrast , the extent of amyloid pathology in mouse from the 6 mo + 3 mo treat or 6 mo + 6 mo treat cohort closely resemble that of the 6 mo untreated cohort , despite the significant age difference between the treat and untreated group ( figure 4 and figure s3 ) .
well - form plaque remain in the treat animal after 6 mo of transgene suppression , even though as much time be give to clear the lesion a they have take to form .
moreover , both type of amyloid , diffuse and fibrillar , remain intact throughout treatment .
use the campbell - switzer silver stain to distinguish different form of amyloid , we find diffuse plaque be as persistent a core deposit ( figure s4 ) .
it be nevertheless clear that dox - induce suppression of transgenic app have completely halt the progression of pathology .
to confirm that the arrest of plaque without any sign of clearance be not unique to the line 107 mouse , we repeat the dox - suppression experiment in a second line of tet - off app mouse ( camkiiα - tta × tet - appswe / ind line 18 ; n = 22 ) .
again , long - term dox treatment be begin at 6 mo of age , and mouse be harvest after 3 mo of transgene suppression ( 6 mo untreated , n = 8 ; 9 mo untreated , n = 6 ; 6 mo + 3 mo treat , n = 8 ) .
immunoblotting for app confirm full transgene suppression in the treat animal ( figure s5 ) .
a in the line 107 mouse describe above , amyloid burden worsen substantially in the untreated mouse between 6 and 9 mo of age .
suppression of transgene expression abruptly arrest progression of pathology ( figure s6 ) , but again without any sign of reduction .
both silver - and thioflavin - s - positive plaque could still be find in each of the dox - treat animal .
we biochemically measure the amount of aggregate aβ in the brain of our mouse before and after transgene suppression use filter trap analysis of cortical tissue from each animal .
in this assay , serial dilution of protein homogenate be pass through a cellulose acetate filter ; particle large than the pore size of the filter become trapped in the membrane and be reveal by immunoblotting [ 22 ] .
consistent with our visual analysis of the histological section , line 107 tta / app mouse treat with dox for 3 or 6 mo have the same amount of aggregate aβ a when they start treatment at 6 mo of age ( figure 4a and 4b ) .
in contrast , untreated 9 - mo - old mouse have almost twice as much aggregate aβ a either of the treat group .
filter trap analysis of line 18 tta / app mouse yield similar result : the increase in aggregate aβ observe in untreated animal between 6 and 9 mo of age be completely arrest by transgene suppression ( figure s5c and s5d ) .
we next use elisa to measure total aβ in the brain of each group to determine whether any change in the amount or solubility of peptide occur while appswe / ind expression be suppress .
cortical homogenate be sequentially extract to separate peptide into pb - , sd - , and fa - soluble fraction , then transgene - derive aβ40 and aβ42 be measure by human - specific elisa [ 23 ] .
in all animal harbor amyloid deposit , we find that the vast majority of aβ ( > 99 % ) be extract into the sd and fa fraction ( figure 5a and 5b ) .
consistent with the filter trap result present above , there be no significant difference in sd - or fa - soluble aβ between the 6 mo untreated cohort and either the 6 mo + 3 mo treat or 6 mo + 6 mo treat cohort .
however , brain of both 6 mo + 3 mo and 6 mo + 6 mo treat cohort contain roughly twice as much pb - soluble aβ40 a untreated 6 - mo - old mouse ( figure 5c ) .
level of aβ42 show a similar trend , but do not reach statistical significance .
in fact , level of pb - soluble aβ40 and aβ42 in the 6 mo + 3 mo and 6 mo + 6 mo treat cohort be most similar to that of the 9 mo untreated cohort , suggest that age , a oppose to synthetic rate ( which would be negligible in the treat animal ) , may determine the fraction of pb - soluble aβ in these animal .
we also assess neuritic and glial pathology surround the plaque to determine whether there be any change in nearby tissue follow long - term transgene suppression .
both hirano silver stain and ubiquitin immunostaining show neuritic pathology in all treatment group ( figure 6 ) .
similarly , activate astrocyte immunostained for gfap be find near plaque in all animal ( figure 6 ) .
neuritic and glial pathology be more severe in the old untreated mouse .
in contrast , transgene suppression prevent the growth of individual deposit apparent in untreated mouse , and limit the surround pathology to what be already present when treatment begin .
an obvious question we seek to address be whether the deposition of aβ diminish cognitive ability in untreated mouse , and what might happen to cognition when the process be interrupt .
unfortunately , effort to characterize cognitive behavior be compromise by severe hyperactivity in untreated double transgenic mouse .
the tta / app animal be often see run in circle around the perimeter of their cage , and a similar swimming pattern be note when the mouse be test in the morris water maze .
in the radial water maze , repetitive swim pattern be note with no evidence of choice - motivate action .
other study have deal with similar problem by exclude animal that do not show adequate attention to the task , retain only those mouse that meet certain performance criterion [ 30 ] .
in our case , the penetrance of hyperactivity be close to 100 % , leave u with no testable animal .
this phenotype have not affect previous line of appswe mouse we have produce , such a line e1 – 2 or c3 – 3 , that express low level of transgenic protein .
indeed , in past study where hyperactivity be not a factor , we establish a clear relationship between amyloid load and cognitive ability [ 31 ] .
however , in the current study , we feel that although the poor performance of the tta / app mouse in the maze test could technically be score a cognitive impairment , the animal ' severe hyperactivity make interpretation of the cognitive task impossible .
in order to understand the nature and extent of hyperactivity in the tta / app mouse , we quantify daily activity level in double transgenic animal along with their single transgenic and nontransgenic sibling use four - beam frame design to monitor ambulation within an enclose cage .
a show in figure 7 , the double transgenic mouse be up to 10-fold more active during the dark phase of the day – night cycle than any of the control group .
activity level appear to follow a relatively normal diurnal cycle , decrease substantially during the daylight hour .
however , even during the light phase , the tta / app mouse remain many-fold more active than normal control .
this behavior be partially , but not consistently , reverse by 1 mo of transgene suppression begin at 4 – 5 mo of age ( data not show ) .
in contrast , hyperactivity be completely abolish by rear tta / app mouse on dox .
animal bear and raise on dox show activity level similar to the untreated control ( figure 7c ) .
intriguingly , all of the dox - rear animal , both transgenic and wild - type , show alter circadian rhythm with far less distinction between their day - and nighttime activity level .
discussion
we present a new mouse model for ad that be design to test the consequence of inhibit aβ production after the onset of amyloid pathology .
new line of transgenic mouse be develop for this study that express high level of appswe / ind under the control of a tetracycline - responsive promoter .
we demonstrate that treatment with dox suppress steady - state level of both appswe / ind and it c - terminal fragment , indicate that the mutant protein have a relatively short half - life in vivo .
transgenic expression of appswe / ind and consequent overproduction of aβ42 cause early - onset amyloid deposition in untreated mouse , in which deposit appear as early a 2 mo of age .
amyloid burden worsen significantly with age , and by 9 mo , the hippocampus and cortex of untreated mouse be largely fill with aggregate peptide .
we find that suppression of transgenic app by more than 95 % abruptly halt the progression of amyloid pathology .
importantly , this outcome occur in animal already harbor considerable amyloid pathology , a situation similar to what might be expect in patient to be treat with secretase inhibitor .
somewhat unexpectedly , we observe no appreciable clearance of deposit amyloid even follow period of transgene suppression equal to the time take for plaque to form .
this latter finding indicate that compare to other disease - associate protein aggregate such a mutant huntingtin , which clear in less than 3 mo [ 32 ] , the disaggregation of extracellular amyloid be relatively slow .
notably , pharmaceutical γ - secretase inhibitor publish to date show less strict regulation of aβ production follow chronic administration than we have attain here .
two independent compound test in tg2576 [ 33 ] and tgcrnd8 [ 34 ] transgenic mouse show no more than 85 % suppression of aβ40 level , and where measure , even less suppression of aβ42 ( approximately 60 % ) [ 35 , 36 ] .
thus , even after account for the much high app expression level in our mouse than in the tg2576 and tgcrnd8 line , we have achieve well absolute suppression of aβ production with the tet - off system than be currently possible with publish γ - secretase inhibitor .
since even the most advanced future pharmaceutical agent be unlikely to attain more complete control of aβ production than achieve here , this system provide a salient test of therapeutic intervention with aβ - lower compound .
although the progression of amyloid deposition be sharply arrest by this approach , we find that a substantial amyloid burden remain even after long period of transgene suppression .
we examine a small number of animal after 12 mo of dox treatment ( begin at 6 mo of age ) , and find that amyloid deposit be still relatively abundant .
long - term treatment be now in progress .
at the late treatment interval analyze by elisa , animal administer dox for 6 mo show elevate level of pb - soluble aβ ( see figure 5 ) that could be interpret a an indication that the plaque be slowly release peptide ( or oligomeric aβ ) into the soluble pool and might eventually dissolve .
whether inhibit aβ production longer than 6 ( or 12 ) mo may ultimately result in clearance of amyloid be under investigation ; unfortunately , the life span of the model eventually limit this experiment .
therapeutic use in human will have considerably more time to act than be possible within the life span of rodent model .
long - term treatment would certainly be possible and could be a key to effective therapy .
overall , however , we interpret our finding a evidence that ad therapy that significantly lower the production of aβ ( by either inhibit secretase activity or inhibit app expression ) may not quickly reverse preexisting pathology , but should effectively halt further deposition of amyloid .
in interpret our study , it should be remember that the early plaque to appear in these mouse , like other app transgenics harbor the swedish mutation [ 27 ] , be predominantly fibrillar deposit , which may be less tractable than the diffuse aggregate think to come first in the course of the human disease .
however , our data suggest that once diffuse deposit be form in these mouse , they be no more easily clear in our system than core plaque ( see figure s4 ) .
an additional consideration we recognize be that a small amount of transgene expression continue in the presence of dox and that endogenous mouse aβ continue to be produce .
it be possible that the combine low level of endogenous mouse aβ and nonsuppressed human peptide be sufficient to maintain exist deposit .
however , these low level of peptide be not sufficient to induce new amyloid formation , a camkiiα - tta × tetappswe / ind mouse raise on dox for up to a year do not develop amyloid lesion ( data not show ) .
it be also clear that in this genetic system , we have raise the production of aβ to level not find in human to accelerate pathology into an experimentally feasible time frame .
this system allow u to create an approximately 20-fold differential between app / aβ synthetic rate before and after treatment , yet the in vivo equilibrium between aggregate and disaggregated state of aβ still favor the maintenance of amyloid deposit .
in our opinion , it seem unlikely that amyloid deposit in human brain would be inherently any less stable than those form in mouse brain .
however , the human brain may harbor clearance mechanism not share by mouse that would allow more efficient removal of preexist amyloid .
one potential mechanism by which amyloid may be more efficiently remove in the human disease than in the mouse model be through microglial phagocytosis .
resident microglia in transgenic mouse model localize to tissue surround plaque but show little evidence of amyloid engulfment [ 37 – 40 ] .
in contrast , microglia surround amyloid plaque in human brain show a much high state of activation with great expression of complement receptor [ 40 ] .
thus , the role of microglia in amyloid metabolism be minor in transgenic model compare to the human condition .
somewhat paradoxically , several study far demonstrate that treatment with anti-inflammatory drug to reduce microglial activation actually lower amyloid load in app transgenic mouse , suggest a role for mouse microglia in the formation and maintenance of amyloid aggregate [ 41 – 43 ] .
however , this outcome may be alternatively explain by direct effect of many anti-inflammatory drug on γ - secretase cleavage [ 44 – 47 ] .
nonetheless , the role of microglia in both the human condition and the mouse model be poorly understand , and difference in microglial reactivity between the two could lead to significantly fast amyloid clearance in the brain of patient with ad than we observe in the tet - off app mouse .
give the relatively minor role play by microglia in other mouse model of amyloidosis , we think it unlikely that these cell have influence the rate of amyloid clearance in the tet - off app mouse .
even so , we consider the possibility that chronic dox treatment may have alter the activation state of microglia in our treat mouse .
dox be structurally similar to minocycline , a report anti-inflammatory drug and inhibitor of microglial activation [ 48 ] .
however , if dox do have anti-inflammatory activity , then , base on previous study with other anti-inflammatory , we would have expect to find less amyloid in the dox - treat animal .
clearly , that be not the case .
while it be possible that dox act in some other way to slow amyloid clearance , data from multiple study demonstrate that microglial response be normally weak in the mouse ad model [ 37 – 40 ] , and thus it be doubtful that dox - mediate microglial inhibition affect the outcome of our study .
the persistence and stability of amyloid deposit in our system be unexpected give the speed with which aβ aggregate be clear in other mouse model of therapeutic intervention .
anti-aβ antibody inject directly into the brain have be show to eliminate amyloid deposit in as little a 1 wk after treatment [ 49 – 51 ] .
peripheral antibody injection decrease amyloid load more broadly , and although it do not appear to act as quickly a local injection , can significantly reduce amyloid load within 2 mo of initial treatment [ 52 , 53 ] .
more recently , an alternative approach have show that lentiviral transfer of neprilysin can also reduce the number of aggregate in the area of the injection site [ 54 ] .
careful study of the mechanism behind several of the antibody - mediate therapy have suggest that activate microglia play an important role in the removal of fibrillar plaque after immunization [ 50 , 52 , 55 ] .
however , it have be note that deletion of the fc receptor ( the primary receptor for microglial opsinization of antibody – antigen complex ) in app transgenic mouse model have no impact on the effectiveness of antibody - mediate therapy [ 56 , 57 ] .
it be , nevertheless , possible that lack of microglia activation be the major difference between the slow clearance describe here , where no perturbation of the immune system be expect , and the rapid clearance describe in study involve antibody or viral injection .
in isolation , mild activation of microglia by injection damage or opsinization may not be adequate to induce substantial phagocytosis , but when combine with an aβ - lower agent , such a neprilysin or aβ - target antibody , the two may work in concert to clear peptide deposit .
consistent with this hypothesis , strong activation of microglia through transgenic expression of tgfβ [ 58 ] or central injection of lipopolysaccharide [ 59 , 60 ] can by itself substantially reduce plaque burden in app transgenic mouse .
but in the case of acute antibody - and / or injury - mediate activation , once the inflammation have pass , and the antibody and bind peptide have be clear and degrade , the remain aβ quickly reaggregates and amyloid pathology be reestablish [ 49 ] .
this finding reinforce the notion that without continue stimulation , microglia in mouse model do not maintain the same level of sustain activation that may occur in human .
santacruz et al. recently publish a study of mouse that express p301l human tau via a similar vector system [ 61 ] .
a in our tet - off app mouse , santacruz et al. find that tau neurofibrillary tangle , like amyloid plaque , be not clear efficiently follow transgene suppression .
the lack of clearance in both model of ad pathology come a a stark contrast to the rapid removal of protein aggregate find in similar tet - off mouse model of huntington [ 32 ] and prion disease [ 62 ] .
in these case , disrupt the input of new monomer to the system via dox - mediate transgene suppression lead to relatively rapid clearance of protein aggregate .
by contrast , our study and that of santacruz et al. suggest that protein aggregate in ad may be more tenacious than in other neurodegenerative disorder .
perhaps once aggregate , aβ and tau be either inherently more stable than other protein aggregate or more resistant to intra - and extracellular clearance mechanism .
one question we be not able to address in this study be whether abrogate synthesis of new aβ halt the progression of cognitive decline .
study from the tet - off tau mouse suggest that protein clearance may in fact not be require for cognitive improvement follow transgene suppression [ 61 ] .
at present , because of unexpected noncognitive behavioral abnormality , it be not clear whether the tet - off app mouse can be use to address the same question in the context of amyloid pathology .
both line of tta / app mouse we study here display extreme hyperactivity visible a cage circling and quantify by activity monitoring ( see figure 7 ) .
many of the double transgenic mouse show similar circular pattern of swimming near the edge of the tank when test in the morris water maze .
expression of this phenotype make standard test of learning and memory uninterpretable .
hyperactivity nonspecifically inhibit choice - drive change in movement , the key element behind all cognitive behavioral paradigm .
we be currently work to determine whether hyperactivity correlate with expression of the appswe / ind holoprotein or it proteolytic derivative .
preliminary study suggest that hyperactivity do not appear quickly when dox - rear mouse be shift to nonmedicated diet ( j. l. j. , unpublished data ) .
these data may indicate that the neuroactive culprit be not immediately present after transgenic app synthesis be initiate , but require additional time to develop .
alternatively , hyperactivity may be cause by neuronal alteration due to transgene expression during early postnatal development .
further experiment be need to distinguish between these possibility .
in summary , we demonstrate that abrogate aβ production halt the progression of pathologic change in a transgenic mouse model of alzheimer - type amyloidosis .
however , despite dramatic reduction in aβ synthesis , neuritic plaque be stable structure in vivo that do not quickly disaggregate .
it be possible that a combination of therapy to limit aβ production , increase aβ degradation , and enhance phagocytosis of deposit amyloid may be require to reverse damage associate with ad .
however , if start early enough in the course of disease , secretase inhibitor alone could provide substantial benefit in slow pathogenic process link to amyloid deposition .
even at late stage in the disease , the presence of substantial microglial activation in human ad [ 40 ] suggest that simply slow the formation of new amyloid deposit may allow ongoing phagocytosis to diminish preexisting lesion .
however , the development of safe and effective secretase inhibitor will ultimately be require to determine whether the human brain have the capacity to repair amyloid - associate damage of ad once the progression of pathology be arrest .
support information
figure s1
transgenic app expression and suppression by dox in the four new tet - off app line
western blotting with human - specific antibody 6e10 reveal transgene - derive full - length app in cortical homogenate from untreated animal ( left lane of each panel ) .
the new line produce exceptionally high level of transgene expression ; an equal amount of brain homogenate from a standard transgenic app line be show for comparison ( extreme left lane , standard tg line c3 – 3 ; [ 15 , 63 ] ) .
after 1 mo of dox treatment , transgenic protein in all four new tet - off app line be reduce to residual level ( + dox ; right lane of each panel ) .
( 474 kb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s2
transgenic app mrna be brain - specific
a slot blot of mrna harvest from various tissue in three of the four new tet - off app line and a nontransgenic control be use to examine transgenic mrna expression .
hybridization be see only in the brain ; no signal above background be see in any other tissue .
( 781 kb psd ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s3
amyloid pathology in the cortex reiterate that in the hippocampus
amyloid histology be perform on section from line 107 double transgenic mouse by hirano silver stain ( top row ) , thioflavin - s ( middle row ) , and aβ immunohistochemistry ( bottom row ) to examine the persistence of pathology follow transgene suppression .
a in the hippocampus ( see figure 4 and text ) , the progression of amyloid pathology in the cortex worsen substantially between 6 and 9 mo of age in untreated mouse .
this progression be completely prevent by suppression of the transgene with dox .
for comparison , normal neurohistology be show in an age - match single transgenic ( tta only ) animal .
no amyloid pathology have be detect in either app or tta single transgenic animal up to 15 mo of age .
( 4.8 mb psd ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s4
diffuse deposit do not disperse during aβ suppression
campbell – switzer silver stain be use to differentiate core ( brown ) from diffuse ( black ) deposit in line 107 tta / app mouse .
this stain demonstrate that both type of deposit persist throughout long period of transgene suppression .
the low panel , show low - power image ( 10 × ) of frontal cortex from each condition , reveal little change in the extent of diffuse amyloid follow up to 6 mo of aβ suppression .
high - power image ( 40 × ) in the upper panel show that the diffuse halo surround individual core deposit remain relatively unchanged in treat mouse .
untreated tta single transgenic animal be show a a negative control .
protocol for the campbell - switzer alzheimer 's method be kindly share by robert switzer , iii ( neuroscience associate , knoxville , tennessee , united state ) , and can be download at http://www.nsalabs.com/documents/publications/campbell-switzer_protocol.htm [ 64 , 65 ] .
( 923 kb jpg ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s5
chronic transgene suppression and arrest of aβ aggregate formation in an independent line of tet - off app mouse ( camkiiα - tta × tet - appswe / ind line 18 )
( a ) the experiment present in the text for line 107 tet - off app be repeat with a second tet - off app line ( line 18 ) to control for integration site artifact .
cortical homogenate from untreated control and dox - treat double transgenic mouse be immunoblotted for full - length app with the human - specific antibody 6e10 to confirm transgene suppression at the time of harvest .
immunostaining for endogenous superoxide dismutase ( sod1 ) be include a a loading control .
( b ) quantitation of signal intensity from the western blot in ( a ) show transgenic app level in line 18 be suppress by more than 98 % follow 3 mo of dox treatment ( significant effect of group anova f2 , 8 = 1559.7 , p < 0.001 ) .
this level of suppression be equal to or good than that attain in line 107 ( see figure 3b ) .
( c ) serial dilution filter trap assay be use to quantify aggregate aβ in cortical homogenate .
( d ) quantitation of signal intensity in the linear range of the dilution series show in ( c ) .
consistent with the amyloid histology show in figure s5 , aggregate formation be significantly increase between 6 and 9 mo of age in untreated mouse ( significant effect of group anova f2 , 18 = 12.14 , p < 0.001 ) .
aggregate formation be completely arrest by transgene suppression , and be identical in 9 - mo - old mouse treat with dox for 3 mo a in untreated animal harvest when treatment begin ( p > 0.5 , tukey post - hoc test ) .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.005 ; *** , p < 0.001 versus 9 - mo - old untreated mouse , tukey post - hoc test .
( 962 kb tif ) .
click here for additional data file .
figure s6
arrest of amyloid progression by chronic transgene suppression in line 18 tet - off app mouse
amyloid histology in cortical ( first and third row ) and hippocampal ( second and fourth row ) section from untreated tta / app mouse show a dramatic progression of pathology between 6 and 9 mo of age .
suppression of transgenic app expression arrest this progression , although without any sign of plaque clearance ( 6 mo + 3 mo dox ) .
hirano silver stain ( top panel ) ; thioflavin - s ( bottom panel ) .
( 5.8 mb psd ) .
click here for additional data file .
patient summary
background
patient with alzheimer disease ( ad ) have elevate level of a small protein call amyloid - β peptide that stick together to form what be know a amyloid plaque in their brain .
this peptide be normally make at low level in healthy individual , and be make when a large protein call amyloid precursor protein ( app ) be cut down in size .
new treatment be now be develop that will decrease the amount of aβ produce from app .
however , it be not clear whether lower the production of aβ will allow the brain to heal itself by clear the amyloid plaque .
the answer to this question may be important for decide when aβ - lower drug should be start , and may also determine how effective they be in reverse the mental symptom of ad .
what do the researcher do and find ?
because new drug design to lower aβ level be still in development , they be not available for testing in animal model of the disease .
instead , basic question about the effectiveness of this type of treatment must be answer use system that mimic how the drug work .
to do this , the author create mouse that produce too much app and that develop the same amyloid lesion a do human patient with ad .
unlike normal mouse , these mouse also carry a “ switch ” gene that allow the researcher to turn off app by feed the mouse special food .
turn off app in these mouse have the same effect a treat them with aβ - lower drug , and so the researcher be able to ask what happen to the amyloid plaque after aβ production be shut down .
they show that lower aβ production prevent the amyloid lesion from get bad a the disease progress .
this mean that treatment with aβ - lower drug may be able to stop the disease from fill the brain with plaque .
however , the researcher also find that the amyloid lesion that have form before treatment be start remain intact throughout the experiment .
what do these finding mean ?
these result indicate that treatment design to lower the production of aβ may be an important part of future ad treatment , a this approach seem to prevent additional amyloid plaque from form in the mouse brain .
however , by itself , this strategy may not be able to rid the brain of plaque that have already form in the brain before treatment be start .
the finding suggest that early treatment may be important for this approach to succeed .
where can i get more information online ?
medlineplus have several web page of information on alzheimer disease : http://www.nlm.nih.gov/medlineplus/alzheimersdisease.html
the adear center of the u government 's national institute on aging also have information on alzheimer disease : http://www.alzheimers.org/
the alzheimer 's association web site contain information on both caregiving and research : http://www.alz.org
acknowledgement
we thank patrick tremblay for helpful advice on the tet system at a critical time in the project , and mark mayford for share the camkiiα - tta mouse through jackson laboratory .
we also thank fraser moss for save several immunoblots with last - minute shipment , andy grove for many thoughtful discussion , neil segil for generously share his laboratory and equipment , beth olson , natasha bouey , and yolanda jackson for outstanding animal care , debbie swing for expert microinjection , and dave fromholt for genotyping and dissection .
we gratefully acknowledge takeda chemical industry for provide antibody ban50 , ba27 , and bc05 , konrad beyreuther and andreas weidemann for provide 22c11 antibody , and ed koo for share ct15 antibody .
this work be support by grant from the john hopkins alzheimer 's disease research center ( jlj ) , the national alliance for research on schizophrenia and depression ( young investigator award [ jlj ] ) , the rose hill foundation ( jlj ) , the alzheimer 's association ( zenith award [ drb ] ) , the national institute of aging ( k01 ag26144 – 01 [ jlj ] , p50 ago5146 – 20 [ drb ] , r01 ag006656 – 16 [ sgy ] , and p01 ag015453 [ sgy ] ) , the national institute of neurologic disease and stoke ( r01 n 047225 [ drb ] ) , and the national cancer institute ( naj and ngc ) .
the funding agency generously provide for research supply , animal care , and salary support ; the funders of this work have no role in study design , data collection and analysis , decision to publish , or preparation of the manuscript .
abbreviation
aβ - amyloid - β
ad - alzheimer disease
aplp - amyloid precursor–like protein
app - amyloid precursor protein
camkiiα - calcium - calmodulin kinase iiα
dox - doxycycline
fa - formic acid
gfap - glial fibrillary acidic protein
mo / huapp695 - mouse app with a humanize aβ domain
pb - phosphate - buffer saline
sd - sodium dodecyl sulfate
swe / ind - swedish / indiana
tta - tetracycline transactivator
figure and table
figure 1
control of transgenic app expression by dox
( a ) western blotting for transgenic app use the human - specific 6e10 antibody show expression of full - length protein in forebrain tissue from young predeposit double transgenic animal ( line 107 ) and it suppression follow dox treatment .
untreated animal show high level of transgene expression ; protein level drop dramatically in animal acutely treat with dox for 2 wk .
a faint , but detectable band of full - length protein remain in acutely treat animal that can be eliminate in mouse bear and raise on dox .
( b ) immunoblotting with the n - terminal antibody 22c11 to detect both transgenic and endogenous protein show that dox treatment reduce app / aplp to level find in nontransgenic mouse .
( c ) measurement of signal intensity from the western blot in ( a ) show transgenic app level be decrease more than 95 % by dox in both acutely and chronically treat animal ( 97.2 % for 4 wk + 2 wk dox , 98.0 % for rear on dox versus 4 wk untreated ; anova effect of treatment group f4 , 15 = 85.55 , p < 0.001 ) .
app level in 4 wk + 2 wk dox , rear on dox , and nontransgenic ( ntg ) be not significantly different ( p > 0.9 , tukey post - hoc test ) .
( d ) measurement of signal intensity from the western blot in ( b ) show total app / aplp level in dox - treat tta / app mouse be significantly low than in 4 - wk - old untreated mouse ( anova effect of treatment group f4 , 15 = 84.41 , p < 0.001 ) and indistinguishable from those of nontransgenic animal ( p > 0.9 , tukey post - hoc test ) .
* , p < 0.001 versus untreated 4 - wk - old mouse , tukey post - hoc test apply to significant effect of group anova .
figure 2
aβ level be dramatically reduce by transgene suppression
cortical homogenate from young , predeposit tta / app mouse use for western blot in figure 1 ( line 107 ) be fractionate by sequential multi-step extraction with pb , 2 % sd , and 70 % fa follow by human - specific aβ elisa to measure transgene - derive peptide in each fraction .
aβ40 be show in white , aβ42 in black .
( a ) pb - soluble aβ level be substantially reduce by both acute and chronic dox treatment ( anova , effect of treatment group f4 , 24 = 137.10 and 386.01 , p < 0.001 , for aβ40 and aβ42 , respectively ) .
aβ level in treat animal be indistinguishable from nontransgenic ( ntg ) animal ( p > 0.3 , tukey post - hoc test ) .
( b ) in the young animal test here prior to the formation of visible amyloid deposit , most aβ be extract into the sd fraction ( 84 % and 76 % of all transgene - derive aβ40 and aβ42 , respectively ) .
a in the pb - soluble fraction , aβ level in the sd fraction be significantly lower by dox treatment compare to untreated animal ( anova effect of group f4 , 24 = 197.57 and 163.48 , p < 0.001 , for aβ40 and aβ42 , respectively ) .
acutely treat animal retain a small ( although significant ) amount of residual peptide ( p < 0.001 compare to nontransgeinc , tukey post - hoc test ) , whereas aβ level in mouse bear and raise on dox be reduce to level indistinguishable from nontransgenic ( p > 0.8 , tukey post - hoc test ) .
( c ) the fa - soluble fraction already contain a small but significant pool of aggregate aβ42 in untreated animal by 4 wk of age ( p < 0.05 versus nontransgenic ; tukey post - hoc test apply to significant effect of group anova f4 , 24 = 17.11 , p < 0.001 ) .
by 6 wk of age , the amount of aβ in the fa fraction be increase significantly precede the appearance of visible deposit 2 wk later .
the fa pool be the only peptide fraction not lower by acute dox treatment ( 4 wk untreated = 4 wk + 2 wk dox , p > 0.9 , tukey post - hoc test ) , consistent with poor turnover of aggregate aβ specie .
( d ) measurement of total aβ , include both endogenous and transgene - derive peptide , show that animal bear and raise on dox harbor aβ level identical to nontransgenic animal ( p > 0.9 , tukey post - hoc test , effect of group anova f4 , 24 = 39.13 and 35.29 , p < 0.001 , for aβ40 and aβ42 , respectively ) .
whereas chronic transgene suppression fully prevent synthesis of both peptide , acute dox treatment fully suppress aβ40 level ( p > 0.8 , tukey post - hoc test ) , but leave a small amount of nonsuppressed aβ42 .
the residual aβ42 observe in acutely treat young animal derive from uncleared aggregate extract in the sd and fa fraction .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.005 ; *** , p < 0.001 versus 4 - wk - old untreated mouse , tukey post - hoc apply to significant effect of group anova .
figure 3
robust transgene suppression in old mouse with preexist amyloid pathology
( a ) cortical homogenate from 6 - to 12 - mo - old animal use for pathology study describe below ( line 107 ) be immunoblotted with human - specific antibody 6e10 to examine transgene suppression follow 3 or 6 mo of dox treatment .
the blot be co-immunostained for endogenous superoxide dismutase 1 ( sod1 ) a a control for loading .
( b ) quantitation of signal intensity from the western blot show in ( a ) .
transgenic app level be significantly suppress follow 3 or 6 mo of dox treatment ( 96.9 % and 97.6 % , respectively ) .
* , p < 0.001 compare to 6 - mo - old untreated animal , tukey post - hoc test apply to significant effect of group anova f3 , 12 = 107.22 , p < 0.001 .
these data demonstrate that strong transgene suppression be attain both before and after the onset of amyloid pathology ( see figure 1 for predeposit experiment ) .
( c ) experimental design .
to examine the effect of chronic aβ suppression on amyloid pathology after the onset of deposition , we compare untreated control harvest at 6 and 9 mo of age to animal place on dox at 6 mo of age and harvest after 3 or 6 mo of treatment .
( d ) dox treatment lead to rapid transgene suppression even in 6 - mo - old tta / app mouse .
immunostaining with 6e10 show appswe / ind level be dramatically reduce in 6 - mo - old mouse treat for 1 wk with dox ( upper panel ) .
a separate blot be immunostained for app c - terminal fragment with ct15 antibody to show that the precursor to aβ cleavage be decrease in parallel with the full - length protein ( middle panel ) .
costaining for superoxide dismutase 1 be use a an internal control for loading ( low panel , take from bottom half of 6e10 blot ) .
figure 4
suppression of transgenic app arrest progression of amyloid pathology
( a ) aggregate aβ be quantify in cortical tissue from dox - treat and control tta / app mouse ( line 107 ) use a filter trap assay .
serial dilution of protein homogenate be pass through a cellulose acetate filter ; protein aggregate large than the pore size be trap and immunostained for aβ .
( b ) quantitation of signal intensity in the linear range of each filter trap dilution series ( arrow in [ a ] ) be use to compare aggregate load across treatment group .
aggregate aβ increase significantly between 6 and 9 mo of age in untreated mouse ( significant effect of group anova f3 , 18 = 7.85 , p < 0.002 ) .
this progression of pathology be completely prevent by transgene suppression .
the amount of aggregate aβ be identical in untreated mouse at 6 mo of age to that in 9 - or 12 - mo - old animal treat with dox ( p > 0.9 , tukey post - hoc test ) .
single transgenic tta sample be include a negative control and show no signal above background .
* , p < 0.01 ; ** , p < 0.005 versus 9 - mo - old untreated mouse , tukey post - hoc test ; *** , p < 0.001 versus 9 - mo - old untreated mouse , student 's t - test .
( c ) amyloid pathology in the hippocampus of representative mouse from each treatment group : hirano silver stain ( top row ) , thioflavin - s ( middle row ) , and aβ immunohistochemistry ( bottom row ) .
amyloid burden increase dramatically between 6 and 9 mo of age in untreated animal , but remain stable in transgene - suppress mouse over the same period ( 6 mo + 3 mo dox and 6 mo + 6 mo dox ) .
single transgenic animal ( tta only show here ) show no sign of amyloid pathology at any age test .
figure 5
aβ elisa confirm arrest of progression without clearance of peptide in mouse with preexist aggregate
aβ level in untreated 6 - and 9 - mo - old tta / app line 107 mouse ( show in figure 4 ) be compare to those in 9 - and 12 - mo - old animal treat with dox from the age of 6 mo .
single transgenic app sample be include a negative control .
cortical homogenate be fractionate by sequential multi-step extraction with pb , 2 % sd , and 70 % fa follow by human - specific aβ elisa to measure transgene - derive peptide in each fraction .
aβ40 be show in white , aβ42 in black .
( a and b ) most aβ in the brain of plaque - bear mouse be extract into the fa and sd fraction .
consistent with amyloid burden ( figure 4 and figure s3 ) , sd - and fa - extract aβ level in untreated 9 - mo - old mouse be significantly high than in untreated 6 - mo - old mouse ( tukey post - hoc test apply to significant effect of group anova for sd and fa fraction f3 , 18 = 4.72 – 12.92 , p < 0.02 ) .
in contrast , 3 or 6 mo of transgene suppression hold aβ at level equivalent to those harbor when treatment be start ( p > 0.2 compare to 6 mo untreated mouse , tukey post - hoc test ) .
* , p < 0.05 ; ** , p < 0.005 ; *** , p < 0.001 versus 9 - mo - old untreated mouse , tukey post - hoc test .
significance for app versus 9 - mo - old untreated mouse be base on student 's t - test .
( c ) the pb fraction represent less than 0.1 % of total aβ ( note the change in y - axis from [ a ] and [ b ] ) , but only here do aβ level in the dox - treat mouse differ from those in young untreated mouse .
although both peptide appear elevated in the treat group compare to the untreated 6 - mo - old mouse , only aβ40 reach statistical significance ( p < 0.05 , tukey post - hoc test apply to significant effect of group anova for aβ40 f3 , 18 = 4.60 , p < 0.02 ) .
a similar trend be see for aβ42 , where anova yield a significant effect of group for pb - soluble aβ42 ( f3 , 18 = 3.75 , p < 0.03 ) , however this be due only to difference between the untreated 6 - and 9 - mo - old group .
• , p < 0.05 versus 6 - mo - old untreated mouse , tukey post - hoc test ; ••• , p < 0.001 versus 6 - mo - old untreated mouse , student 's t - test .
figure 6
neuritic and glial pathology be unchanged follow transgene suppression
dystrophic neurites and activate astrocyte surround most compact plaque in tet - off app mouse ( line 107 ) .
dark - stain , ubiquitin - fill neurites and reactive astrocyte form a halo around core , fibrillar deposit by 6 mo of age that worsen with time in untreated mouse .
both plaque - associate pathology be arrest , although not reverse , by transgene suppression .
hirano silver stain ( top row ) ; gfap immunohistochemistry ( middle row ) ; ubiquitin immunohistochemistry ( bottom row ) .
figure 7
transgene suppression attenuate hyperactivity in tta / app mouse
( a ) a 48 - h measure of ambulation record extreme hyperactivity in untreated double transgenic mouse compare to single transgenic and nontransgenic control ( line 107 ) .
this phenotype be completely eliminate by rear the double transgenic mouse on dox .
( b ) the same data show in ( a ) be replotted to magnify data from untreated control and dox - treat group .
( c and d ) activity level in the combine control group of ( a ) and ( b ) be here separate by genotype .
none of the single transgenic or nontransgenic control group display the hyperactivity present in untreated tta / app animal .
again , note the y - ax have be enlarge for detail compare to ( a ) .
footnote
citation : jankowsky jl , slunt hh , gonzales v , savonenko av , wen jc , et al. ( 2005 ) persistent amyloidosis follow suppression of aβ production in a transgenic model of alzheimer disease .
plo med 2 ( 12 ) : e355 .
pten dose dictate cancer progression in the prostate
abstract
complete inactivation of the pten tumor suppressor gene be extremely common in advanced cancer , include prostate cancer ( cap ) .
however , one pten allele be already lose in the vast majority of cap at presentation .
to determine the consequence of pten dose variation on cancer progression , we have generate by homologous recombination a hypomorphic pten mouse mutant series with decrease pten activity : ptenhy / + > pten + / − > ptenhy / − ( mutant in which we have rescue the embryonic lethality due to complete pten inactivation ) > pten prostate conditional knockout ( ptenpc ) mutant .
in addition , we have generate and comparatively analyze two distinct ptenpc mutant in which pten be inactivate focally or throughout the entire prostatic epithelium .
we find that the extent of pten inactivation dictate in an exquisite dose - dependent fashion cap progression , it incidence , latency , and biology .
the dose of pten affect key downstream target such a akt , p27kip1 , mtor , and foxo3 .
our result provide conclusive genetic support for the notion that pten be haploinsufficient in tumor suppression and that it dose be a key determinant in cancer progression .
introduction
the pten ( phosphatase and tensin homolog delete on chromosome 10 ) tumor suppressor gene be locate on chromosome 10q23 , a genomic region frequently lose in human cancer .
somatic deletion or mutation of this gene have be identify in a large fraction of tumor , frequently in prostate cancer ( cap ) , place pten among the most commonly mutate tumor suppressor gene in human cancer ( cantley and neel 1999 ; di cristofano and pandolfi 2000 ) .
a dictate by knudson 's “ two - hit ” hypothesis ( knudson 1971 ) , however , the analysis of cancer sample for mutation in pten have be perform search for biallelic inactivation of the gene , which point at complete pten inactivation a a late event in cancer progression .
the consequence of loss or mutation in one pten allele in carcinoma in situ or in primary cancer may have be underestimate .
it could be postulate that if pten be to be haploinsufficient for some of it tumor - suppressive function , loss of one pten allele or reduction in it expression may be play a key role in tumor initiation , while further reduction of it function / expression may favor invasion and possibly tumor metastasis in advance cancer .
in agreement with this hypothesis , it have be report that primary tumor often show loss or alteration of at least one pten allele ( e.g. , 70 % – 80 % of primary cap ; gray et al. 1998 ; whang et al. 1998 ) , while homozygous inactivation of pten be generally associated with advanced cancer and metastasis ( cantley and neel 1999 ; di cristofano and pandolfi 2000 ) , support a possible key role for progressive pten functional loss in tumor progression .
the elucidation of the molecular basis for tumor initiation and progression in most epithelial neoplasm have be hinder by the lack of suitable laboratory and preclinical model that accurately reflect the genetic and histopathological progression of these cancer .
furthermore , the outcome of a progressive dose reduction in tumor suppressor function have be rarely assess in vivo in the mouse .
small interfere rna ( sirna ) technology have more recently allow test the consequence of knockdown of a tumor suppressor such a p53 in specific cell type such a hemopoietic stem cell , by generate epi - allelic series of hypomorphs create by stable rna interference ( rnai ) transduction ( hemann et al. 2003 ) .
in the case of pten , this analysis be far complicate since complete inactivation of the gene result in early embryonic lethality and aberrant developmental program ( di cristofano et al. 1998 , 2001a ; suzuki et al. 1998 ; podsypanina et al. 1999 ) .
thus , a further unrestricted reduction of the pten dose could still result in embryonic lethality .
on the other hand , the consequence of complete pten inactivation , even when restrict to a specific organ / tissue , could still affect the developmental program of that organ , while complete somatic loss of pten in an adult organ would well approximate what be normally observe in human cancer .
we have address these issue for pten , a we describe in this article , through the generation of ( i ) hypomorphic mouse mutant and ( ii ) conditional mutant for complete prostate - specific pten inactivation after puberty .
we previously report that pten heterozygous ( pten + / − ) mutant be prone to develop neoplasm of various histological origin , include prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia ( pin ) after a long latency ( > 14 mo ) and at incomplete penetrance ( 40 % ) ( di cristofano et al. 2001a ) .
pten + / − mutant , however , never develop invasive cap .
invasive cap be , by contrast , observe in compound pten + / − / p27kip1 + / − or pten + / − / p27kip1 − / − mutant ( di cristofano et al. 2001a ) .
these lesion appear to originate in pin lesion , which then become invasive .
however , no metastatic cap be observe in this model , also in view of early lethality due to the occurrence of concomitant tumor of various histogenesis .
analysis of tumor , pin , and cap in pten + / − mouse and pten / p27kip1 compound mutant strongly suggest that pten may be haploinsufficient in prostate tumor suppression since pten protein expression be never lose in these lesion .
if this be indeed the case , a further reduction in the pten dose with respect to pten + / − mutant should impact on tumorigenesis and tumor progression .
by contrast , in case pten need to be completely lose for phenotypic consequence to be manifest , only a complete pten inactivation would hasten the neoplastic process .
the discovery that phosphatidylinositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate ( pip3 ) be the main in vivo substrate of pten ( maehama and dixon 1998 ) place this phosphatase into a well - defined pathway ( review in vivanco and sawyer 2002 ) .
pip3 level be very low in quiescent cell , but rapidly increase upon stimulation by growth factor , through phosphoinositide 3 - kinase ( pi3k ) activation .
the role of pten be to keep the level of pip3 low by dephosphorylation at the d3 position .
loss of pten function result in increase pip3 level and subsequent akt hyperactivation / phosphorylation ( stambolic et al. 1998 ; di cristofano et al. 1999 ; backman et al. 2002 ; vivanco and sawyer 2002 ) .
it may therefore be propose that a progressive reduction in the pten dose could simply result in a concomitant progressive dose - dependent increase in akt activation and it downstream molecular biological consequence .
alternatively , pten expression level may constitute discrete biochemical threshold below which qualitative functional change would occur , contribute to tumor progression and invasion .
cap be the most common non-skin malignancy among western adult male .
it be estimate that in 2003 , approximately 220,900 new case and 28,900 cap - relate death will occur in the united state .
approximately 70 % of cap patient will harbor mutation or display loss of at least one allele of pten ensue in the constitutive activation of the pi3k / mtor pathway ( gray et al. 1998 ; whang et al. 1998 ; di cristofano and pandolfi 2000 ) .
a aforementioned , those mutation be in positive correlation with tumor stage and grade , pten be completely lose in approximately 40 % of metastatic cap ( gray et al. 1998 ; whang et al. 1998 ) .
we therefore decide to focus on the prostate a an important model system to determine genetically whether and how the dose of pten dictate tumor initiation and progression .
we demonstrate in vivo , in a hypomorphic mouse mutant series , that pten play a crucial dose - dependent role in cap tumor suppression and that pten progressive inactivation lead to both quantitative and qualitative molecular and biological change towards full - blown tumorigenesis .
result
generation of a hypomorphic pten mutant series
we have previously report that pten heterozygous mutant be tumor prone and viable , while complete pten inactivation result in embryonic lethality ( di cristofano et al. 1998 , 2001a ) .
we therefore decide to generate and characterize a mouse mutant in which the dose of pten would be reduce far below the level observe in a pten + / − mutant .
to this end , we at first engineer by homologous recombination an allele of pten that would express a wild - type pten gene at reduce level , take advantage of the well - know phenomenon of transcriptional interference ( mcdevitt et al. 1997 ; morita et al. 2003 ) .
we therefore target within pten intron 3 the neomycin ( neo ) cassette under the control of the strong cmv promoter ( figure 1a ; see also figure 3a ) in mouse embryonic stem ( e ) cell .
transcription of the neo cassette in the recombine allele be expect to interfere with the transcription of the pten gene , in turn result in low expression level of a wild - type pten protein by this allele .
correctly recombine e clone be obtain ( see figure 3b ; see material and method ) and inject into blastocyst for germline transmission .
mutant harbor the ptenhy allele be obtain from recombine e cell and be find viable , thrive , and fertile .
we next intercrossed ptenhy / + mouse with pten + / − mouse to generate a hypomorphic series ( figure 1b ) .
partial rescue of embryonic lethality in pten hypomorphic mutant
the further reduction of the pten dose could indeed result in embryonic lethality ; we therefore assess whether compound ptenhy / − mouse would be bear at all .
in the analyze cohort ( n = 190 ) , viable male and female ptenhy / − mutant be in fact obtain .
however , the frequency among various genotype do not follow mendelian ratio .
out of the 25 % ptenhy / − mutant expect in these cross , only 10 % be bear .
in particular , approximately 40 % of the ptenhy / − male and 75 % of the ptenhy / − female be lose during gestation .
this strongly suggest that a further reduction of the pten dose have occur in ptenhy / − mutant and that this reduction still result in embryonic lethality , albeit at incomplete penetrance ( the embryonic phenotype of the ptenhy / − will be describe elsewhere ; l. c. trotman and p. p. pandolfi , unpublished data ) .
enough viable ptenhy / − male be obtain , however , and monitor for tumorigenesis in the prostate .
a predict , a significant reduction in pten level and the consequent increase in akt activation ( phospho-akt / akt ratio ) be observe in organ and primary cell from ptenhy / − mutant when compare to pten + / − , ptenhy / + , and wild - type littermates .
in particular , we analyze mouse embryonic fibroblast ( mefs ) , peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmcs ) , and prostate of various genotype ( figure 1c ; figure 2a and 2b ; data not show ) .
semiquantitative rt – pcr analysis confirm the reduction of pten mrna expression in ptenhy / − mefs when compare to pten + / − and wild - type cell ( see figure 1d ) .
massive prostate hyperplasia and invasive cap in ptenhy / − mutant
the level of pten be indeed far reduce in the prostate from ptenhy / − mutant when compare to wild - type , ptenhy / + , and pten + / − mouse ( figure 2a and 2b ) .
conversely , akt activation be increase in ptenhy / − mutant ( figure 2b ) .
on this premise , we therefore study prostate tumorigenesis in ptenhy / + ( n = 26 ) , pten + / − ( n = 24 in this study plus n = 18 , a previously report ; di cristofano et al. 2001a ) , and ptenhy / − ( n = 14 ) mutant on a comparative basis .
mouse be follow throughout their life accord to the following experimental scheme :
( i ) all cohort be subject to serial monthly ( in select case , biweekly ) nuclear magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) ( see material and method ) for detection of morphological change in the size and shape of the prostate ;
( ii ) mouse be sacrifice at or prior to tumor detection for postmortem pathological analysis or when manifest sign of distress be observe ( owe to tumor codevelopment ;
ptenhy / − mutant , a pten + / − mouse , in fact , develop tumor of multiple histologic origin ;
data not show ) .
striking difference be observe in the prostate of these three cohort over time .
the prostate of pten + / + and pten + / − mouse be never find enlarge by mri analysis at any age ( figure 2c ; see figure 5d ) .
pten + / − mutant develop moderate / low - grade pin at incomplete penetrance ( 35 % – 40 % approximately , after a long latency of > 12 mo ) that be only detect by serial postmortem analysis , a previously report ( figure 2f ; di cristofano et al. 2001a ) .
strikingly , however , mri analysis immediately reveal a profound difference in the ptenhy / − cohort .
the prostate of these mouse be find markedly enlarged , and prostate growth be detect start at 3 mo ( see figure 5d ) .
by 6 – 8 mo , these growth typically surpass the size of seminal vesicle ( figure 2c and 2d ) .
interestingly , prostate enlargement be not accompany by an overall increase in total body weight or size in ptenhy / − mutant ( data not show ) .
postmortem pathological analysis of such mutant confirm the marked epithelial hyperplasia of the prostate ( figure 2f ) .
all lobe be find to be hypercellular , with prominent macroscopic enlargement of anterior and dorsolateral lobe .
microscopically , the regular and round prostatic gland observe in wild - type mouse be replace by large , irregular , and complex gland that contain multiple intraluminal papillary projection already at age 2 – 3 mo .
furthermore , many cell have sizeable nucleus , clumped chromatin , and prominent nucleolus , form focus of epithelial dysplasia .
the phenotype observe in the ptenhy / − mouse be characterize by a wide spectrum of level of cellular differentiation , which be not typically observe in the pten + / − mouse .
a we previously report in pten + / − and pten + / − / p27kip1 − / − mutant ( di cristofano et al. 2001a ) , pten protein expression be also still retain in the hyperplastic prostate from ptenhy / − mutant , and southern blot analysis confirm retention of the hypomorphic pten allele ( figure 2e ; data not show ) .
importantly , approximately 25 % of the ptenhy / − mouse analyze at more than 6 mo of age show histological sign of local invasion , with tumor cell disrupt the basement membrane of the gland and grow into the surround stroma ( figure 2f ; see figure 5e ) .
thus , strikingly , a further reduction in the pten dose a observe in ptenhy / − mutant when compare with pten + / − mutant do lead to massive prostate hyperplasia at complete penetrance and accelerate tumor progression from high - grade pin ( grade 3 – 4 tumor a per the cap grading system for genetically engineer mouse ; park et al. 2001 ) to locally invasive cap in this mouse model .
generation of conditional prostate - specific pten mutant
we next determine whether complete pten inactivation in the prostate would far affect cap tumor progression .
to this end , we generate mouse mutant in which pten exon 4 and 5 be flank by loxp site ( figure 3a ; see material and method ) .
the neo cassette be excise from the locus in vivo by intercrossing ptenhy / + with eiia - cre transgenic mouse ( lakso et al. 1996 ) .
in these mouse , the cre recombinase be express transiently , early in embryogenesis , allow the production of a mosaic progeny that harbor in the germline pten allele in three different configuration : target unmodified ( still retain the neo cassette ) , pten floxed , or pten delete ( figure 3a ) .
breeding of these mosaic mutant allow u to generate mouse heterozygous for the pten floxed allele ( ptenloxp mutant ; see figure 3b ) .
a expect , ptenloxp mouse be bear follow mendelian frequency , viable and fertile , and be utilize for the conditional inactivation of the pten gene in the prostate .
to this end , we make use of two different cre transgenic line , pb - cre and pb - cre4 , in which the cre gene be under the control of two distinct version of the rat probasin ( pb ) gene promoter ( maddison et al. 2000 ; wu et al. 2001 ) .
the pb gene be express in the prostatic epithelium postpuberty since the gene be androgen responsive ( matusik et al. 1986 ) .
hence , use both pb - cre transgenic line , excision of the pten gene would occur in the prostatic epithelium postpuberty .
this be of relevance because it avoid any possible developmental effect due to complete inactivation of pten during prostate organogenesis .
the main difference in the two line essentially reside in the strength of the promoter .
in the pb - cre4 line ( wu et al. 2001 ) , the cre gene be drive by a composite promoter , arr2 pb , which be a derivative of the rat pb promoter from which the pb - cre line ( maddison et al. 2000 ) be originally generate .
pb - cre4 mouse express cre at high level and at high penetrance , while pb - cre mouse express cre at low level and in few cell .
this could in turn result in a more focal or more diffuse inactivation on pten in the prostatic epithelium , a we could indeed document ( figure 4a ) .
also of note , pb - cre and pb - cre4 mouse be cross with ptenloxp mutant in order to generate pb - cre / ptenloxp / loxp ( hereafter refer to a ptenpc1 mutant ) or pb - cre4 / ptenloxp / loxp ( hereafter refer to a ptenpc2 mutant ) ( see figure 3c ) .
the dose of pten dictate tumor progression in the prostate
we next study the impact of complete pten inactivation on prostate tumorigenesis in ptenpc1 and ptenpc2 mutant .
mouse be follow over time exactly a describe for the pten hypomorphic series by serial mri and pathological analysis over a period of approximately 18 mo ( figure 5d and 5e ) .
strikingly , we observe a dramatic difference in ptenpc1 / 2 mutant when compare to ptenhy / − mutant , but also , importantly , when compare ptenpc1 with ptenpc2 mutant .
mri and macroscopic postmortem analysis of the prostate reveal a rapid massive enlargement of all the prostatic lobe already manifest from 2 – 3 mo of age in ptenpc2 mutant at complete penetrance ( see figure 4b ; figure 5d ) .
in ptenpc1 mutant , the enlargement be less pronounced at early stage and undetectable by mri , but still apparent ( see figure 4b ; figure 5d ) .
a aforementioned , the pattern of pten inactivation in the prostatic epithelium be different in ptenpc1 versus ptenpc2 mutant ( see figure 4a ; ptenpc1 focal versus ptenpc2 widespread ) .
this difference also correlate with a clear difference in both the morphology and proliferative rate of the prostatic epithelium in these two model ( see figure 4a ; see also the following paragraph ) .
thus , ptenpc2 mutant display a much more severe prostate enlargement than do ptenpc1 mutant ( see figure 4b ; figure 5d ) .
ptenpc1 mouse display focal area of epithelial hyperplasia , with enlarge gland form by relatively regular cell , while ptenpc2 mouse present disorganized hyperplastic gland in all lobe with sign of cellular dysplasia , contain large , irregular cell , form at time cryptic glandular formation ( see figure 4a ) .
even more strikingly , however , pathological analysis of prostate from ptenpc1 and ptenpc2 mouse reveal in both mutant , at complete penetrance , the development of invasive and diffuse cap after a variable latency ( see figure 4b ; figure 5e ) .
tumor be in both case make of pten null cell ( data not show ) .
continuity of local invasive disease with that of intraepithelial lumen be often observe .
the tumor be compose of rather large , mature epithelial cell .
neuroendocrine feature , such a cytoplasmic granularity and small round cell , be not see in the tumor analyze ( see figure 4b ) .
although the tumor be clearly invasive in both ptenpc1 and ptenpc2 mutant with disruption of the basement membrane and clear sign of organ infiltration , once again we observe difference in the cap from these two model .
in many instance , in ptenpc2 mutant more than one prostate lobe be completely efface by the infiltrate neoplastic cell , suggest a multifocal tumor origin , while invasive tumor in ptenpc1 mutant be often affect only one lobe at a time and the extent of the infiltration be less diffuse ( see figure 4b ) .
in addition , tumor in the ptenpc1 animal be well - to - moderately differentiate while tumor in the ptenpc2 mouse be in general high - grade , undifferentiated lesion .
in contrast , ptenhy / − mutant display a spectrum of phenotype , from well to undifferentiated and occasionally to locally invasive phenotype , a previously show .
thus , pten conditional inactivation in the prostate lead to invasive and diffuse cap at complete penetrance .
effect of the pten dose on the biology of the prostatic epithelium
we study the molecular and biological consequence of pten dose variation in the prostatic epithelium of our various mutant .
we include in the analysis age - match ( 8 - wk - old ) pten + / + , pten + / − , ptenhy / − , and ptenpc2 male .
the latter mutant be use instead of ptenpc1 mouse in view of the more widespread pattern of pten inactivation observe in their prostate .
first , we determine whether reduction in the pten dose would affect proliferation of epithelial cell .
upon ki - 67 stain , we observe a progressive increase in the proliferative rate of prostate epithelial cell , which correlate with the reduction in pten expression level ( figure 5a ) .
for instance , approximately 10-fold more cell be find in active proliferation in the prostate from ptenpc2 mutant when compare with pten + / + mouse .
thus , pten inactivation , in a dose - dependent manner , lend to epithelial cell a dramatic growth advantage in the prostate .
by contrast , mefs of all genotype from the hypomorphic series do not show noticeable difference in their growth rate under standard culture condition , while show progressive activation of the akt signaling pathway ( data not show ; see figure 1c ) .
this may reflect an intrinsic differential cell - type sensitivity to pten inactivation , also in agreement with the fact that pten hypomorphism do not result in overall increased body size and weight .
we next assess whether and how the progressive reduction of the pten dose would affect the function of key downstream target such a akt , p27kip1 , mtor , and foxo3 by immunohistochemistry ( ihc ) and western blot ( wb ) analysis ( see material and method ) .
a aforementioned , we study the status of akt phosphorylation , the major known biochemical effect of pten loss ( vivanco and sawyer 2002 ) , use an anti-phospho - akt - specific antibody on cell and extract from the various pten mutant .
staining of prostate from various genotype with this antibody increase proportionally to the decrease in pten level a confirm by wb analysis ( see figure 2b , 5b , and 5c ; data not show ) .
in addition , ihc analysis reveal a drastically different staining pattern in prostate cell from ptenpc2 mutant when compare with cell from other genotype in that phospho - akt be find to overtly accumulate at the plasma membrane ( figure 5c ) .
a similar staining pattern be observe both in pten null epithelium prior to tumor occurrence and in cell from overt tumor from both ptenpc1 and ptenpc2 mutant ( data not show ) .
thus , akt be progressively activate by a reduction in the pten dose , which in turn result in it recruitment to the plasma membrane .
we next study the effect of pten inactivation on p27kip1 , foxo3 , and mtor , known target of akt kinase activity .
phosphorylation of p27kip1 and foxo3 by akt result in their functional inactivation through multiple mechanism such a nuclear export , in the case of foxo ( brunet et al. 1999 ) , or inhibition of nuclear import and downregulation , in the case of p27kip1 ( mamillapalli et al. 2001 ; liang et al. 2002 ; shin et al. 2002 ; viglietto et al. 2002 ) .
by contrast , akt activation result in mtor phosphorylation and increase protein translation and translation initiation ( gingras et al. 2001 ) .
we previously report that the localization or the expression level of p27kip1 be not affect in pten + / − and pten + / − / p27kip1 − / − compound mutant ( di cristofano et al. 2001a ) .
by contrast , a progressive downregulation in p27kip1 staining be observe in ptenhy / − and ptenpc2 mutant ( figure 5c ; data not show ) .
p27kip1 be apparently express at low level , and few cell be find to express the protein ( figure 5c ) .
we also study the status of foxo3 in the various pten mutant , analyze both it localization and threonine phosphorylation with a specific anti-phospho - foxo3 antibody ( see material and method ) .
while no noticeable difference be observe in pten + / − and ptenhy / − mutant ( data not show ) , increase in the level of anti-phospho - foxo3 cytoplasmic staining be observe in prostate epithelial cell from ptenpc2 mutant when compare to wild - type mouse ( figure 5c ) .
complete pten inactivation also result in an increase in mtor phosphorylation in the prostatic epithelium of ptenpc2 mutant ( figure 5c ) .
thus , the progressive reduction of the pten dose ( and the extent of pten inactivation in ptenpc1 / 2 mutant ) affect the proliferative rate of the prostatic epithelium and result in molecular change , which in turn dictate the natural history of these lesion and tumor progression ( figure 5d and 5e ) .
discussion
our analysis allow a detailed deconstruction the molecular genetics underlie cancer progression in the prostate and the assessment of the key relevance of pten and subtle variation in it dose in control this process .
base on our finding , we can now attribute distinct preneoplastic or malignant pathological entity to distinct molecular state .
furthermore , this new knowledge allow the reclassification , on the basis of their true molecular nature , of pathological lesion that at a superficial analysis appear very similar ( figure 6 ) .
in this supposedly linear and multistep process , which separate two extremely different anatomical and pathological entity , a normal prostatic epithelium from an invasive cap , there be , in between , a discrete number of anatomically distinct intermediary step , such a prostate hyperplasia > displasia / low - grade pin > high - grade pin > locally invasive cap > diffused cap .
these entity have be recognize before on the basis of their pathological feature .
the fact that we be now able to correlate these anatomical stage with specific molecular event , such a the level of expression of a single tumor suppressor gene , not only represent an integration of anatomical , descriptive finding with biological data , but also offer the opportunity of therapeutic intervention .
we show in this study that inactivation of one pten allele in the mouse may lead to prostate epithelial hyperplasia , a complete inactivation of p27kip1 in the mouse lead to what resemble human benign prostate hyperplasia ( bph ) .
however , these two lesion be very different in nature and outcome : the first , in fact , impact only on epithelial element and over time evolve to low - grade pin , while the second impact on both epithelial and stroma element , represent hyperplasia of the whole organ , but do not evolve toward malignancy ( figure 6 ; cordon - cardo et al. 1998 ; di cristofano et al. 2001a ) .
this obviously do not exclude that loss of p27kip1 expression when accompany by additional genetic event ( e.g. , loss of pten ) may lead to a completely different outcome , a be also support by our previous in vivo analysis in the mouse ( figure 6 ; di cristofano et al. 2001a ) .
moreover , our data demonstrate that a further reduction in the pten dose , a observe in the ptenhy / − mutant , accelerate tumor progression dramatically , eventually result in high - grade pin and locally invasive carcinoma ( figure 6 ) .
this fact have very important therapeutic implication .
a a large number of cap patient ( more than 80 % ) display at presentation loss of one pten allele , but do retain the other normal pten allele , it could be propose that high - grade pin or locally invasive prostate carcinoma could be prevent or treat by pharmacologically modulate the expression of the remain pten allele or by antagonize the downstream consequence of pten downregulation or partial inactivation ( e.g. , pi3k / mtor activation ; figure 6 ) .
while the massive prostate hyperplasia / dysplasia observe in the ptenhy / − mutant be not , a expect , accompany by complete loss of pten expression ( see figure 2e ) , the low penetrance of the invasive cap in these mutant strongly suggest that additional event have to occur for this pathological transition to occur .
nevertheless , it be important to underscore that pten + / − mouse , unlike ptenhy / − mutant , do not develop invasive cap , but only low - grade pin lesion ( figure 6 ) .
thus , a further reduction of the pten dose seem to be essential for this process .
several possibility , not mutually exclusive , could be entertain :
( i ) a more severe reduction in the pten dose could facilitate cooperative tumorigenesis by render the cell permissive and sensitive to the activation of additional oncogenic pathway ;
( ii ) the massive prostate hyperplasia could facilitate the accumulation of additional genetic hit ( include complete pten loss ) by simply expand the pool of actively divide cell ;
( iii ) a more severe reduction in the pten dose could protect cell from apoptotic program that be normally trigger by the occurrence of damage genetics event .
the fact that ptenhy / − mutant develop massive prostate hyperplasia not accompany by an overall increase in body weight and size underscore the fact that different tissue and organ be differentially sensitive to pten dose variation , the prostatic epithelium be one of the most sensitive .
in agreement with this notion , mefs from ptenhy / − mutant do not display proliferative advantage in standard culture condition over wild - type mefs .
in this respect , it be also important to remember that , unlike p27kip1 − / − mouse , which display hyperplasia of both stromal and parenchymal component in the prostate ( as well a an increase in body mass ; fero et al. 1996 ; kiyokawa et al. 1996 ; nakayama et al. 1996 ) , in ptenhy / − mutant it be specifically the prostatic epithelium that actively proliferate , lead to prostate hyperplasia ( figure 6 ) .
interestingly , this do not parallel what be observe in other model system , such a drosophila , where dose variation in the expression of pten or downstream signaling component ( e.g. , tor ) do result in variation in body size and mass ( review in oldham and hafen 2003 ) .
while we and others have previously implicate pten heterozygous loss in prostate tumorigenesis when in cooperation with additional oncogenic event ( such a loss of p27kip1 or nkx3.1 or the expression of the large t oncogene ; di cristofano et al. 2001a ; kwabi - addo et al. 2001 ; kim et al. 2002 ; abate - shen et al. 2003 ) , we demonstrate in this article that complete inactivation of pten alone in the prostate have already catastrophic consequence lead to invasive , diffuse , and highly aggressive malignancy ( figure 6 ) .
although it can not be formally exclude that complete pten loss would still cooperate with additional oncogenic event toward full - blown transformation , this finding underscore once more the exquisite sensitivity of the prostatic epithelium to loss of pten .
this information should be factor in when tailor the treatment of cap or high - grade pin lesion that have completely lose pten function .
these lesion may be extremely sensitive to pi3k or mtor inhibitor , while modulation of pten expression would not be a therapeutic option in these case ( figure 6 ) .
on the basis of these finding , it would seem therefore of paramount importance to routinely assess the status of the pten gene and it expression in human cap and precancerous lesion a a key biomarker to opt for the most appropriate therapeutic or chemopreventive intervention modality .
it remain to be see whether complete pten inactivation in the mouse prostate also influence the metastatic potential of these invasive cap alone or in combination with additional oncogenic event .
in this respect , while mri and postmortem analysis have indeed reveal the presence of lung neoplastic lesion in our conditional pten mutant , morphological and molecular analysis have so far exclude the metastatic nature of these tumor ( m. niki et al. , unpublished data ) .
the stepwise reduction in the pten dose result in clear progressively quantitative change in the prostate epithelial cell prior to tumor development .
increase cellular proliferation correlate with increased phosphorylation of akt .
in pten null epithelial cell , both in the preneoplastic stage or in overt cap , phospho - akt be find to accumulate almost exclusively at the plasma membrane ( see figure 5c ) .
whether this represent the extreme consequence of akt superactivation or rather reflect a genuine qualitative change in akt biology and function in pten null prostate epithelial cell remain to be determine .
it also remain to be resolve whether the reduction in p27kip1 expression be also associate with it cytoplasmic relocalization , a previously report in human breast cancer cell suffer akt hyperactivation ( liang et al. 2002 ; shin et al. 2002 ; viglietto et al. 2002 ) .
take together , this analysis support a pten dose - dependent model with progressive change at the molecular level , argue against a pten threshold model for tumor suppression .
by contrast , clear qualitative morphological change be observe in the prostate epithelium when analyze the pten hypomorphic series .
while pten + / − mouse never display massive prostatic enlargement , further reduction to ptenhy / − level lead to a sharp increase in prostate mass .
in addition , pten + / − mouse never develop invasive cap , whereas ptenhy / − mouse do ( figure 6 ) .
these data clearly support a threshold model for pten tumor suppression at the physiopathological level .
similarly , qualitative morphological change be also cause by the number of cell suffer complete pten inactivation , a observe when compare ptenpc1 versus ptenpc2 mouse .
in ptenpc2 mouse , sign of cellular dysplasia and irregular glandular formation be frequently observe , but they be mostly absent from ptenpc1 mutant .
along the same tenet , profound mass increase be always observe at early timepoints in ptenpc2 mouse , but not in ptenpc1 mutant .
this be likely due to the marked difference in the number of pten null cell present in the parenchyma of these two model at puberty , reflect the different level of cre expression in the two model .
these observation be also consistent with a threshold model for pten tumor suppression a a function of the number of pten null cell in a given organ .
from a biological standpoint , it will be challenging to determine in the future whether this “ field effect ” would also play a role in the natural history of human cap .
on the one hand , it could be speculate that human cap likely arise from a single transformed cell and that therefore that the field effect observe in mouse model will not be critical determinant in the natural history of the human disease .
on the other hand , the multistep nature of the neoplastic process ( and hence the genetic heterogeneity of the lesion ) and the fact that the tumor will eventually grow to form “ field ” of neoplastic cell may suggest that these effect , as well a stromal and parenchymal interaction , be key aspect of the human disease that the mouse model can recapitulate .
take together , our finding demonstrate the key importance of pten in cap tumor suppression and the dramatic impact that subtle change in pten level and extent of pten inactivation may have on tumor initiation and progression in the prostate .
material and method
mouse
generation and characterization of pten + / − mouse have be describe perviously ( di cristofano et al. 1998 , 2001a ) .
mouse be genotyped by pcr on tail dna or by southern blotting a show .
hypomorphic mouse be generate a describe in figure 1 and figure 3 and tail dna genotyped by pcr for presence of the pten − and ptenhy allele ( use primer 1 and 2 describe below ) or by southern blotting .
targeting vector and generation of prostate - specific pten - deficient mouse
a 129 / sv mouse genomic library ( stratagene , la jolla , california , united state ) be screen with a mouse pten probe contain exon 4 – 6 .
to generate the targeting construct , a 4.1 kb kpni – bamhi fragment contain 5 ′ pten genomic dna and a 2.0 kb xbai fragment contain 3 ′ genomic dna be clone into ppnt .
the targeting construct be linearize with noti and electroporated into cj7 e cell .
transfectants be select in g418 ( 350 μg / ml ) and gancyclovir ( 2 μm ) and expand for southern blot analysis use a 3 ′ probe .
chimeric mouse be produce by microinjection of two independently generate target e cell clone with normal karyotype into e3.5 c57bl6 / j blastocyst , then transfer to pseudopregnant foster mother .
chimeric male be mat with c57bl6 / j female ( jackson laboratory , bar harbor , maine , united state ) , and germline transmission of the mutant allele be verify by southern blot analysis of tail dna from agouti coat - color f1 offspring .
next , ptenloxp - neo / + mouse be mat with eiia - cre transgenic mouse ( lakso et al. 1996 ) , and tail dna from offspring be subject to southern blot analysis use probe 6.1 .
through these cross , mosaic mouse harbor a pten wild - type allele , a pten target allele ( ptenloxp - neo ) , and a floxed allele ( ptenloxp ) in their germline be generate .
these mosaic mutant be mat with wild - type mouse and tail dna from offspring subject to southern blot analysis use probe 6.1 and to pcr analysis use primer 1 ( 5 ′ - aaaagttcccctgctgatgatttgt - 3 ′ ) and primer 2 ( 5 ′ - tgtttttgaccaattaaagtaggctgtg - 3 ′ ) .
pcr condition be 35 cycle ( 30 sec at 95 °c , 1 min at 55 °c , and 1 min at 72 °c ) use hotstartaq master mix ( qiagen , valencia , california , united state ) , primer ( 0.25 μm ) , and dna ( 50 ng ) .
to detect the delete allele , primer 3 ( 5 ′ - cccccaagtcaattgttaggtctgt - 3 ′ ) be use .
ptenloxp / loxp mouse be next mat with pb - cre transgenic mouse ( maddison et al. 2000 ) or male pb - cre4 transgenic mouse ( wu et al. 2001 ) for conditional prostate - specific pten inactivation .
autopsy and histopathology
animal be autopsied and all tissue be examine regardless of their pathological status .
normal and tumor tissue sample be fix in 10 % buffer formalin and embed in paraffin .
section ( 5 μm ) be stain with hematoxylin and eosin ( h & e ) accord to standard protocol .
cell
primary mefs derive from ten littermate embryo be produce a follow .
mefs be obtain by cross ptenhy / + and pten + / − animal , embryo be harvest at 13.5 dpc , and individual mefs be produce and culture a previously describe ( di cristofano et al. 2001b ) and genotyped a describe above .
at passage 2 , cell be harvest for wb analysis ( see below ) and mrna extraction by the trizol method ( gibco – brl , carlsbad , california , united state ) and cdna produce use the superscript first - strand kit for rt – pcr ( invitrogen , carlsbad , california , united state ) accord to the manufacturer ' instruction .
semiquantitative pcr ( yield a 102 bp amplicon ) be perform with a pten exon 3 - specific forward ( 5 ′ - tggattcaaagcataaaaaccattac - 3 ′ ) and an exon 4 - and exon 5 - specific reverse primer ( 5 ′ - caaaaggatactgtgcaactctgc - 3 ′ ) use 30 cycle of 1 min at 95 °c , 1 min at 55 °c , and 1 min at 72 °c ) with the pcr optimizer kit ( invitrogen ) and buffer a accord to the manufacturer 's protocol .
pcr amplification of the cdna be perform for 25 , 30 , and 35 cycle , and the amplified product be find to be in the linear range at 30 cycle .
pcr product from hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase ( hprt ) control amplification with 5 ′ - cctgctggattacattaaagcactg - 3 ′ and 5 ′ - gtcaagggcatatccaacaacaaac - 3 ′ primer be use a standard ( 352 bp amplicon ) .
for measure proliferative rate of all mef genotype , cell be seed in 12 - well plate at 3,000 cell per well in medium contain 10 % fbs and fix at 2 - d interval .
analysis and quantification be perform a previously describe ( di cristofano et al. 2001b ) .
wb analysis and densitometry
prostate from dissected animal of all genotype be briefly homogenize ( use a polytron homogenizer ; polytron vertrieb , bad wildbad , germany ) , and primary mefs be harvest and directly lysed in 50 mm tris ( ph 7.5 ) , 150 mm nacl , 1 mm edta , 0.1 % np - 40 , 1 mm sodium ortho-vanadate ( na3vo4 ) , 10 mm naf , and protease inhibitor cocktail ( hoffmann – la roche , basel , switzerland ) and clear by centrifugation ; concentration be determine by the bio - rad protein assay ( bio-rad laboratory , hercules , california , united state ) ; and sample be take into an sd sample loading buffer .
blood be take from the retro - orbital cavity of anesthetize mouse , red cell be lysed in lysis buffer ( 0.155 m nh4cl , 10 mm khco3 , 1 mm edta ) , and intact cell harvest by centrifugation .
pbmcs be lysed in lysis buffer a previously describe ( di cristofano et al. 2001b ) , and protein concentration be determine a above .
equivalent of 50 μg of lysate per lane be use for sd – page and wb analysis .
protein be detect use a rabbit polyclonal anti-pten antibody ( anti-pten / mmac - 1 ab - 2 ; neomarkers , lab vision corporation , fremont , california , united state ) , anti-actin monoclonal antibody ( mab ) ac - 74 ( sigma , st. louis , missouri , united state ) for normalization , and the phospho - akt pathway sampler kit antibody against akt and phospho - serine 473 of akt ( cell signaling technology , beverly , massachusetts , united state ) follow the manufacturer ' instruction .
after visualization with the ecl system ( amersham bioscience , little chalfont , united kingdom ) , film be scan and band density be quantify use macbas v2.5 ( fuji photo film company , tokyo , japan ) on a macintosh computer ( apple computer , sunnyvale , california , united state ) .
ihc
tissue be fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde and embed in paraffin , and 8 μm - thick section be prepare .
anti-p27 mouse mab ( catalog # 610242 ; bd transduction laboratory , san diego , california , united state ) be use at 0.5 μg / ml concentration .
the ihc detection be perform with the mom kit from vector laboratory ( burlingame , california , united state ) .
rabbit polyclonal phospho - akt ( ser 473 ) antibody ( catalog # 9270 from cell signaling technology ) be use in 1 : 50 dilution , and rabbit polyclonal antibody pten / mmac1 ab - 2 ( catalog # rb - 072 - po from neomarkers ) be use at 1 : 200 dilution .
the ihc detection be perform with the abc kit from vector laboratory .
these stain procedure be carry out by the automated staining processor discovery from ventana medical system ( tucson , arizona , united state ) .
anti-ki - 67 antibody ( novocastra laboratory ltd. , newcastle - upon - tyne , united kingdom ) , anti-cre antibody ( novagen , madison , wisconsin , united state ) , and polyclonal anti-phospho - mtor antibody ( cell signaling technology ) be purchase .
anti-phospho - foxo3 ( thr 32 ) be a kind gift from anne brunet ( harvard university , cambridge , massachusetts , united state ) .
paraffin section ( 5 μm thickness ) be fix in ice - cold acetone and incubate in 0.1 % h2o2 for 15 min to inactivate internal peroxidase .
antigen retrieval be perform in 10 mm citric acid for 15 min use microwave .
ihc staining be perform use biotinylated secondary antibody follow by the vectastain abc elite kit ( vector laboratory ) .
mri analysis
mouse be assess individually by mri for tumor establishment .
image be obtain on a 1.5t general electric lx echo speed signa scanner ( general electric medical system , milwaukee , wisconsin , united state ) use homemade foil solenoid coil ( 22 mm or 27 mm inner diameter ) .
the mouse be anesthetize with isofluorane .
image be acquire use a two - dimensional spin - echo pulse sequence .
initially , the animal be position in the coil in a holder , and sagittal scout ( field of view , 120 mm ) image obtain ( tr = 300 m , te = 14 m , one excitation per phase - encode step , 256 × 128 matrix , 3.0 mm - thick slice , 1.5 mm slice separation ) to localize the region of interest .
subsequently , high - quality t2 - weight fast spin - echo transverse image be obtain ( tr = 3,000 – 5,000 m , teeff = 102 m , echo train length = 12 , 6 – 12 excitation per phase - encode step , 1.5 mm thick slice , field of view = 40 mm , 0.5 mm slice separation , in plane resolution of 156 × 156 μm or 156 × 208 μm ) .
statistical analysis
survival be calculate use the kaplan – meier method .
log rank test be use to compare group by use the spss 10 software package ( spss incorporated , chicago , illinois , united state ) .
acknowledgement
we thank peter scardino and howard scher for advice and discussion ; zhenbang chen for help with genotyping and characterization of the pten hypomorphic mutant ; lisette anne maddison for the genotyping of the pr - cre transgenic mouse ; katia manova and craig farrell for assistance with the automated ihc procedure ; maria socorro jiao for assistance with pathological analysis ; and mihaela lupu and cornelia matei for assistance with the mri analysis .
this study be support , in part , by national cancer institute ( nci ) grant ( spore 92629 in prostate cancer , mmhcc ca - 84292 , and ro1 ca - 82328 ) and by the i.t. hirschl / m. weill – caulier foundation to ppp and cc - c .
imaging analysis be support by nci grant r24ca83084 and an mskcc nci core grant to jak .
abbreviation
ap - anterior prostate
bph - benign prostatic hyperplasia
cap - cancer of the prostate
e - embryonic stem
h & e - hematoxylin and eosin
hprt - hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase
ihc - immunohistochemistry
mab - monoclonal antibody
mef - mouse embryonic fibroblast
mri - magnetic resonance imaging
neo - neomycin
pb - probasin
pbmc - peripheral blood mononuclear cell
pi3k - phosphoinositide 3 - kinase
pin - prostatic intraepithelial neoplasia
pip3 - phosphatidylinositol 3 , 4 , 5 - trisphosphate
pten - phosphatase and tensin homolog delete on chromosome 10
rnai - rna interference
sirna - small interfere rna
wb - western blot
figure and table
figure 1
production and analysis of a pten hypomorphic mouse series
( a ) schematic representation of the wild - type ( + ) , hypomorphic ( hy ) , and null ( − ) allele of pten .
( for a detailed view , see figure 3a . )
( b ) breeding scheme use to produce a pten hypomorphic mouse series and predict hierarchy of pten expression level .
( c ) wb analysis of mef lysates from ten littermate primary cell culture obtain from a single cross ( indicate in [ b ] ) confirm predicted pten expression hierarchy in the hypomorphic series and inversely relate akt phosphorylation status ( top ) , both verify by densitometric analysis and plotting of the pten / actin and phospho - akt / akt ratio ( bottom ) .
( d ) mef cdna be amplify by semiquantitative pcr with exon 3 ( forward ) and exon 4 – 5 span ( reverse ) primer for pten .
consistent with the concept of transcriptional interference at the pten locus , pten mrna level in ptenhy / − mefs be clearly below the level observe in heterozygosity .
low panel show the quantification of pten relative to hprt amplification .
figure 3
conditional knockout of the pten gene in mouse prostate
( a ) map of wild - type pten locus ( top ) , targeting construct ( second from top ) , predicted targeted locus ( third from top ) , pten locus after cre - mediate excision of the neo resistance cassette by cross with an eiia - cre mouse ( fourth from top ) , and pten locus after cre - mediate excision of the floxed exon 4 and 5 by cross with a pb - cre or pb - cre4 transgenic mouse ( bottom ) .
the genomic sequence be depict a a black line , with black box represent exon 4 and 5 .
pink and yellow box represent the neo resistance and the hsv thymidine kinase cassette ( tk ) and light blue triangle represent the loxp site , respectively .
the pten genomic fragment use a a probe for southern blot analysis be show ( 3 ′ probe and probe 6.1 ) .
solid arrow represent expected fragment following hybridization with the 3 ′ probe upon digestion with ecori , and dashed arrow represent expected fragment follow hybridization with the probe 6.1 upon digestion with xbai .
location of pcr primer to detect wild - type , floxed allele ( ptenloxp ) , and deleted allele be show .
xbai ( x ) , kpni ( k ) , bamhi ( b ) , and ecori ( e ) site be show .
( b ) genotyping of mouse .
lane 1 and 2 show southern blot analysis of e cell clone with 3 ′ probe of control ( lane 2 ) and recombined clone and # 176 ( lane 1 ) after digestion with ecori , show a 6 kb wild - type band ( wt ) and a 2.5 kb targeted band ( r ) .
lane 3 and 4 ( control ) represent southern blot analysis of mouse tail dna of offspring by cross f1 mouse generate from # 176 with an eiia - cre mouse with probe 6.1 after digestion with xbai , show wild - type , target ( ptenloxp - neo ) , and floxed ( ptenloxp ) locus band .
lane 5 , 6 ( control ) , and 7 represent southern blot analysis of mouse tail dna of offspring by cross the mouse of lane 3 with a wild - type mouse with probe 6.1 after digestion with xbai .
lane 8 – 14 show pcr analysis of tail dna of offspring by cross a pb - cre4 ( + ) , ptenloxp / + male with a ptenloxp / + female with primer 1 and 2 .
lane 8 , 9 , and 14 indicate ptenloxp / + , lane 10 and 13 indicate pten + / + , and lane 11 and 12 indicate ptenloxp / loxp .
lane 15 – 17 show pcr analysis of tail dna of offspring by cross a ptenloxp / + male with a pb - cre4 ( + ) , ptenloxp / + female with primer 1 , 2 , and 3 .
lane 15 indicate ptenloxp / + , lane 16 indicate pten + / + , and lane 17 indicate that the delete allele exist in tail dna of this offspring .
( c ) representation of cross scheme use to generate prostate - specific pten conditional mutant .
ptenloxp / loxp mutant be cross with pb - cre transgenic mouse or pb - cre4 transgenic mouse .
figure 2
ptenhy / − mouse display massive hyperplasia and invasive cap
( a ) ihc on preneoplastic anterior prostate ( ap ) tissue of 2 - mo - old littermate mouse show decrease pten protein level in the hypomorphic series .
( b ) wb analysis of the prostate lobe from ( a ) be show on the left and their quantification be show on the right .
( c ) mri of ptenhy / − mouse age 6 – 8 mo show pathologic structure ( encircle by dashed line ) adjacent to seminal vesicle ( sv ) coincide with displacement of the bladder ( bl ) , feature typically associate with massive prostate tumor ( right ) .
these feature be never find in pten + / + or pten + / − mouse ( left ) .
( d ) macroscopic view of the ptenhy / − mouse from ( c ) confirm massive enlargement of the ap lobe , but normal - sized seminal vesicle .
( e ) quantification of wb analysis on ap lobe total lysates from the ptenhy / − animal show in ( c ) compare to preneoplastic ap of same genotype from ( a ) and ( b ) , label 8 mo and 2 mo , respectively .
note that in the enlarge hyperplastic prostate , pten protein expression be retain ( level be express relative to the corresponding wild - type animal ) .
( f ) histopathology ( h & e ) of ap lesion at 8 mo reveal transition from low - to high - grade pin and invasion ( infiltration of stromal tissue be indicate by arrow ) in ptenhy / − , while age - match pten + / − tissue only show hyperplastic feature and pten + / + tissue be unaffected .
bar be 50 μm .
figure 5
molecular effect of loss of pten and biological comparison of all generate mouse model
( a ) ki - 67 staining of ap lobe section illustrate increase proliferation with decrease pten level ( number be ki - 67 - positive cell per 300 cell count in percent ; bar be 50 μm ) .
( b ) the phospho - akt / akt ratio be sharply increase in the prostate of 10 - wk - old ptenpc2 animal , a show by densitometric quantification of wb analysis .
( c ) ap staining with anti-phospho - akt antibody reveal strong plasma membrane localization of phospho - akt and apparent reduction of p27 protein detection , whereas phospho - mtor and phospho - threonine - foxo3 antibody show increased staining in ptenpc2 versus wild - type mouse prostate .
bar be 50 μm .
( d ) kaplan – meier curve show prostate enlargement a visualize by mri .
progressive rate of mass increase for ptenpc2 ( median age , 4 mo ) , ptenhy / − ( median age , 7 mo ) , and ptenpc1 ( median age , 16 mo ) mouse be find .
in contrast , no prostatic size irregularity be detect in pten + / + or pten + / − mouse .
( e ) incidence of invasive cap .
invasive cap be define a tumor cell disrupt the basal membrane of prostatic gland and grow into the surround stroma .
full penetrance be observe in both ptenpc1 mouse as well a in ptenpc2 mouse .
in contrast , ptenhy / − mouse with a follow - up of more than 6 mo display only 25 % incidence of invasive cap .
figure 4
ptenpc2 mouse develop invasive cap
( a ) histopathology analysis of wild - type , ptenpc1 , and ptenpc2 mouse prior to tumor onset .
h & e - stain ap ( top ) show the difference in both the morphology and proliferative rate of the prostatic epithelium in these two model .
ihc staining with anti-pten antibody ( bottom ) be carry out on wild - type , ptenpc1 , and ptenpc2 mouse .
in wild - type mouse , strong cytoplasmic staining be observe in epithelial cell ( arrowhead ) .
in ptenpc1 mouse , staining be generally weak , whereas in ptenpc2 mouse , staining be completely absent in the prostatic epithelium .
original magnification , 400 × .
( b ) mri ( top ) show massive prostate tumor ( surround by dash line ) in ptenpc2 mouse ( at 6 mo ) and no detectable difference between the prostate of ptenpc1 or pten + / + mouse ( at 12 mo ; arrowhead ) .
bladder ( bl ) and seminal vesicle ( sv ) be indicate .
macroscopic view ( second from top ) of the same animal confirm massive enlargement of both aps in ptenpc2 and reveal the slightly enlarged ap of ptenpc1 mouse ( encircle ) .
h & e staining ( bottom ) of the prostate from ptenpc1 mouse be characterize by multiple focus of pin lesion and by the presence of prostatic adenocarcinoma .
these lesion contain well - differentiate neoplastic cell and show focal area of invasion ( arrowhead ) .
h & e staining of prostate from ptenpc2 mouse show diffuse , invasive cap with large , undifferentiated tumor cell grow into stromal area .
figure 6
pten dose affect prostate tumor progression
pten + / − mouse develop hyperplasia , dysplasia , and low - grade pin .
ptenhy / − mouse develop at complete penetrance high - grade pin at a young age ( 8 – 10 wk ) and roughly 25 % present invasive cap around 8 mo .
ptenpc mouse develop invasive cap at complete penetrance .
( see discussion for a detailed description . ) p27kip1 − / − mouse , on the contrary , develop only bph .
possibility for human therapeutic intervention derive from our finding : in addition to inactivation of pi3k / akt and mtor enzymatic activity ( in pten loss of heterozygosity condition ) , monitoring and elevation of pten expression level of the remain allele could not only prevent formation of pin lesion ( in pten + / − individual ) , but could importantly also be use to counteract the progression to invasive phenotype ( a observe in ptenhy / − mouse mutant ) .
footnote
conflict of interest .
the author have declare that no conflict of interest exist .
author contribution .
lct , mn , zad , jak , ad , ax , tvd , cc - c , and ppp conceive and design the experiment .
lct , mn , zad , jak , ad , and ax perform the experiment .
lct , mn , zad , jak , ad , ax , asbk , tvd , cc - c , and ppp analyze the data .
pr - b , nmg , tvd , and ppp contribute reagent / material / analysis tool .
lct , mn , zad , and ppp write the paper .
academic editor : nicholas hastie , medical research council human genetics unit , western general hospital
knockout of erk5 cause multiple defect in placental and embryonic development
abstract
backgroud
erk5 be a member of the mitogen activate protein kinase family activate by certain mitogenic or stressful stimulus in cell , but whose physiological role be largely unclear .
result
to help determine the function of erk5 we have use gene targeting to inactivate this gene in mouse .
here we report that erk5 knockout mouse die at approximately e10.5 .
in situ hybridisation for erk5 , and it upstream activator mkk5 , show strong expression in the head and trunk of the embryo at this stage of development .
between e9.5 and e10.5 , multiple developmental problem be see in the erk5 - / - embryo , include an increase in apoptosis in the cephalic mesenchyme tissue , abnormality in the hind gut , as well a problem in vascular remodelling , cardiac development and placental defect .
conclusion
erk5 be essential for early embryonic development , and be require for normal development of the vascular system and cell survival .
background
mitogen activate protein kinase ( mapk ) cascade play important role in many cellular process include cell proliferation , differentiation , survival and apoptosis .
they be also important for many physiological function in several system , include in developmental , immune and neuronal system .
at least 12 isoforms of mapks exist in mammalian cell , and these can be divide into 4 main group , the ' classical ' mapks ( erk1 and erk2 ) , jnks ( also refer to a sapk1 ) , p38s ( also refer to a sapk2 , sapk3 and sapk4 ) and atypical mapks such a erk3 , erk5 and erk8 .
with the exception of erk3 , mapks be activate by dual phosphorylation on a thr - xaa - tyr motif by a dual specificity mapk kinase ( mkk ) .
mkks be in turn activate by a mapk kinase kinase ( mkkk ) , which be activate in response to appropriate extracellular signal .
erk5 be an atypical mapk that can be activate in vivo by a variety of stimulus , include some mitogen such a egf , and some cellular stress such a oxidative and osmotic shock [ 1 - 3 ] .
these stimulus activate a cascade in which the mapk kinase kinase mekk3 or mekk2 activate mkk5 , which in turn activate erk5 [ 4 , 5 ] .
interest in the erk5 pathway have be fuel by report that the activation of erk5 by mkk5 can be block in vivo by the kinase inhibitor pd184352 , pd 98059 and u0126 .
these inhibitor be develop a inhibitor of the classical mapk cascade , and have be use extensively to study this cascade in vivo .
the discovery that they can also block erk5 activation , although at high concentration than be require to block the activation of erk1 and erk2 , raise the possibility that erk5 and erk1 / erk2 may have some overlap function in vivo [ 6 , 7 ] .
the physiological role of erk5 be still largely unclear .
overexpression of a constitutively active mkk5 in mouse result in cardiac hypertrophy and death of the mouse by 8 week of age [ 8 ] .
this be suggestive of a role of erk5 in the heart , possibly relate to cardiac development .
erk5 have also be implicate in the development of smooth muscle , a erk5 antisense oligonucleotides [ 9 ] or dominant negative erk5 construct [ 10 ] have be report to block the differentiation of smooth muscle cell in cell culture model .
at present little be know about the substrate for erk5 in vivo , however it have be suggest to phosphorylate connexin 43 [ 11 ] and the transcription factor mef2c [ 12 - 14 ] .
mouse knockout of mef2c be embryonic lethal , and mef2c - / - embryo die due to a failure of the develop heart to undergo normal looping at e 8.5 - 9 [ 15 ] .
knockout mekk3 also result in embryonic lethality at e11 , mekk3 - / - embryo show problem with myocardium formation , angiogenesis and placental formation [ 16 ] .
while this could be consistent with a role for erk5 in link mekk3 signalling to mef2c during cardiac development , it should be note that mekk3 can activate other mapk isoforms , particularly p38α ( also refer to a sapk2a ) [ 17 - 20 ] .
knockout of p38α have be report by several group , and p38α - / - embryo have also be report to show problem in cardiac development , angiogenesis and placental formation at e10 - 11 [ 21 - 23 ] .
in order to far examine the role of erk5 we carry out expression and gene targeting study in mouse .
erk5 knockout be find to be lethal during embryogenesis at e10.5 to e11 , and here we report a detailed analysis of these embryo .
while this work be in progress , both regan et al [ 25 ] and sohn et [ 26 ] also report erk5 knockout , and the effect of these different erk5 knockout be consider in the discussion .
result
generation of erk5 knockout mouse
sequencing of the mouse erk5 gene show that it comprise of 7 exon span 5.4 kb of genomic sequence .
of these , exon 2 to 7 encode the sequence of erk5 , while the 5 ' untranslated region be locate in exon 1 and 2 , and the 3 ' untranslated region in exon 7 .
base on this sequence a targeting vector be design to delete exon 4 and 5 of erk5 in e cell ( fig 1 ) .
correct incorporation of this vector be confirm by southern screening of e cell ( fig 1a and 1b ) .
germline transmission be obtain from two independent targeted erk5 e clone , and the erk5 + / - mouse be of similar size and morphology to wild type littermates .
breeding of erk5 + / - mouse give the expected number of wild type and erk5 + / - mouse , however no erk5 - / - mouse be obtain , indicate that the erk5 knockout be lethal during embryogenesis .
to determine the point of lethality , embryo be genotyped by a pcr base method ( fig 1a and 1c ) from timed mating .
the expected mendelian number of homozygous knockout mouse be find at e9.5 and 10.5 ( table 1 ) and at this point knockout embryo be still alive , a judge by a beat heart .
in contrast , at e11.5 all homozygous erk5 knockout embryo find have die and be undergo reabsorption .
similar result be obtain from cross of the erk5 mutation onto either balb / c or c57 / bl6 background , and from two independent e cell clone .
the deletion make in the erk5 gene remove the sequence encode for amino acid 133 to 712 , and introduce a neomycin resistance cassette , include a polyadenylation sequence into the erk5 gene .
while exon 1 to 3 remain in the target gene , insertion of the neomycin cassette would be expect to interfere with normal transcription and splicing after exon 3 .
should exon 3 be able to splice onto exon 6 in the target gene , this would result in a frame shift mutation .
to confirm that the knockout block the production of erk5 protein , extract from e9.5 embryo be analyse by immunoblotting use a polyclonal antibody raise against the whole erk5 protein .
erk5 be detect in wild type embryo and in erk5 + / - embryo , however the level of erk5 protein be reduce in erk5 + / - embryo compare to wild type embryo .
a expect no protein be see for erk5 in the erk5 - / - embryo .
no evidence for the production of truncated form of erk5 in the erk5 - / - embryo could be see in the immunoblots ( data not show ) .
expression of mkk5 and other mapk kinase ( erk1 , erk2 and p38 ) be unaffected by the knockout of erk5 ( fig 1d ) .
figure 1
generation of erk5 knockout mouse .
a ) erk5 knockout mouse be make use a targeting vector to delete exon 4 and 5 of the murine erk5 gene through the addition of a neomycin selection cassette .
a thymidine kinase cassette act a a negative selection marker during e cell selection .
b ) e cell dna be digest with both hind iii and mfe i , and a southern blot perform use a probe 3 ' to the targeting vector .
the position of the wild type 9.5 kb fragment and targeted 3.3 kb fragment be indicate .
c ) dna be isolate from e9.5 embryo and digest with hind iii and mfe i .
southern blot be then probe with the 3 ' probe a describe in ( b )
d ) soluble protein from homogenate of e9.5 embryo be run on 4 – 14 % acrylamide gel .
immunoblotting be then carry out use antibody which recognise erk5 , mkk5 , erk1 / 2 or p38 .
table 1
ratio of erk5 adult and embryo
* of the e10.5 knockout embryo , 12 be class i and 16 be class ii
** - / - embryo find at e11.5 be dead
at e9.5 the appearance of homozygous erk5 knockout embryo be similar to that of the wild type .
however , between e9.5 and e10.25 some difference between the knockout embryo and wild type embryo start to become apparent ( fig 2 ) .
by e10.25 knockout embryo be clearly growth retarded compare to littermate control , and clear morphological difference could be see .
all erk5 knockout embryo have problem in placental and blood vessel development , and in addition to this , two distinct morphology could be see in knockout embryo by e10.25 .
the first morphology , refer to a ' class i ' , be characterise by severe retardation of growth , especially in the head and low trunk region .
in contrast , ' class ii ' embryo be less growth retarded than class i embryo , however development of the head and low trunk be abnormal .
development of the first and second branchial arch be reduced , and the embryo develop an abnormal head shape .
in addition , development of the cephalic mesenchyme appear abnormal ( fig 2c ) .
change see in the erk5 knockout be discuss in more detail below .
figure 2
phenotype of erk5 - / - mutant embryo .
embryo be isolate from timed mating of erk5 + / - mouse and genotyped by pcr analysis of the isolated yolk sac .
at e9.5 ( a ) little difference could be observe between wild type and erk5 - / - littermates .
at e9.75 ( b ) difference could be see between the wt and erk5 - / - embryo in the head region , particularly in the cephalic mesenchyme of class ii embryo ( red arrowhead ) .
at e10.25 ( c ) erk5 - / - embryo be growth retarded compare to wild type embryo .
erk5 - / - embryo show an abnormal head shape , compare to wild type embryo ( green arrow ) and in class ii erk5 - / - embryo also show severe abnormality in the cephalic mesenchyme and 1st and 2nd branchial arch ( yellow arrow ) .
development of the hind limb bud ( star ) and low trunk be also retarded in the erk5 - / - embryo .
expression of erk5 and mkk5 during embryogenesis
analysis of the expression of erk5 , and it upstream kinase mkk5 , by whole mount in situ hybridisation use antisense rna probe show that the expression of these kinase be dynamically regulate during embryonic development ( fig 3a , 3b , 3c , 3d , 3e ) .
at e8.5 erk5 expression be low and occur mainly in the cephalic neural fold and primitive gut .
at e9.5 erk5 expression be see in the first and second branchial arch , cephalic region , somite and lateral ridge along the body wall .
by e10.5 and 11.5 erk5 expression be also see in the develop limb bud .
a would be expect for the upstream activator of erk5 , the expression pattern of mkk5 be find to be similar to that of erk5 from e8.5 to e12.5 .
interestingly , erk5 be find not to be highly express in the develop heart a judge from whole mount immunosatining .
to examine this far , section of erk5 whole mount in situ hybridisation be take .
at e 9.75 and e10.5 strong erk5 expression be see in the branchial arch , cephalic mesenchyme and neuropethelial region ( fig 4a to 4c ) , as well a in the limb , hind gut , septum transversum , dorsal root ganglion , somite and tail .
only weak expression of erk5 be see in the heart in section at e9.5 and e9.75 , however a slightly strong expression of erk5 could be see in the atrial chamber of the heart at e10.5 ( fig 4 ) .
strong expression of erk5 be however apparent in the sinus venous below the heart .
expression of erk5 be also examine at e10.5 in the placenta by whole mount in situ hybridisation and sectioning .
erk5 expression be find to be high in the chorionic plate and labyrinthine layer .
a protein expression do not always exactly mirror mrna expression , e9.5 and e10.5 embryo be also dissect and erk5 expression examine by western blotting ( fig 5a ) .
this show that erk5 expression be high in the head and low trunk of the embryo , intermediate in the heart region and low in the placenta .
in adult mouse , high level of erk5 and mkk5 be find in brain , thymus and spleen , with low level present in lung , stomach , adrenal gland , adipose tissue , pancreas and heart ( fig 5b ) .
figure 3
expression of erk5 and mkk5 during embryonic development .
whole mount in situ hybridisation be carry out on wild - type embryo a describe in the method use antisense rna probe against erk5 or mkk5 or with no rna probe .
expression of erk5 and mkk5 be analyse at e8.5 be see in the cephalic neural fold and primitive gut .
at e9.5 expression be also see in the branchial arch , cephalic region and somite and lateral ridge of the body wall .
from e10.5 , e11.5 to e12.5 expression of erk5 and mkk5 increase with high expression see in the branchial arch , head and limb bud .
figure 4
analysis of erk5 expression in embryo section .
whole mount in situ hybridisation be carry out on wild - type embryo ( a - c ) or placenta ( d ) a describe in the method use antisense rna probe against erk5 at e9.5 , e9.75 and e10.5 .
after stain embryo be section on a vibrotone .
strong erk5 expression be see in the cephalic mesenchyme ( star ) branchial arch and neuroepithelium .
weak expression be see in the heart at e9.5 , however this increase by e10.25 ( diamond ) .
strong erk5 expression be see in the sinus venous below the heart ( arrow ) .
in the placenta ( d ) strong expression be see in the chorionic plate and labyrinthine layer .
figure 5
immunoblotting of erk5 and mkk5 .
wild type embryo ( e9.5 and 10.5 ) be dissect and head , heart , gut and placenta be isolate .
the placenta be then subdivide into upper ( mainly embryonic ) and low ( mainly maternal ) region .
whole wild type and erk5 - / - embryo be also isolate at e9.5 .
tissue be also isolate from adult wild type mouse .
sample be homogenise , insoluble material remove by centrifugation , and the concentration of soluble protein in the extract determine by a bradford assay .
soluble protein ( 30 μg ) be run on 4 – 14 % acrylamide gel .
immunoblotting be then carry out use antibody which recognise erk5 or mkk5 for both embryonic ( a ) and adult ( b ) sample .
level of erk1 / 2 , p38 and actin be also determine in the adult tissue sample ( b ) .
erk5 be require for normal angiogenesis and placental development
one of the most apparent problem in the erk5 knockout embryo be a defect in the formation of blood vessel in the yolk sac .
at e9.5 blood island could be see in the membrane of both wt and knockout embryo .
however , by e10.25 the erk5 knockout embryo fail to develop the highly branched network of blood vessel see in the wt or heterozygous embryo ( fig 6 ) .
we therefore also examine blood vessel formation in the knockout embryo .
at e9.75 cd31 staining of endothelial cell show little difference between wild type and erk5 - / - embryo , and a clearly define network of large blood vessel could be see in both genotype .
in the wild type embryo these blood vessel continue to develop , give rise to large blood vessel which branch down into network of small vessel .
this network of vesicle be especially apparent in the head region of the embryo .
in contrast much less branching of the blood vessel be apparent in the head region of erk5 - / - embryo .
it should however be note that the formation of other head structure , as well a blood vessel , be also retard by e10.25 in the erk5 - / - embryo ( fig 7 ) .
figure 6
morphology of wild type and erk5 - / - mutant yolk sac .
embryo be isolate from timed mating of erk5 + / - mouse and photograph .
embryo be then genotyped by pcr analysis of the isolated yolk sac .
at e9.75 ( a ) wild type and erk5 - / - mutant yolk contain blood island ( arrow ) .
by e10.25 ( b ) , the blood vessel find in wild type yolk sac form distinct large vessel which branch down into small vessel ( arrow ) .
in contrast , the surface of the erk5 - / - yolk sac become pale , and do not show the branched blood vessel .
at e11.5 ( c ) , erk5 - / - yolk sac appear intermittent with diffuse patch of red blood cell ( arrow ) .
the erk5 - / - embryo show be pale and apparently devoid of blood circulation without a beat heart .
figure 7
cd31 whole - mount immunohistochemistry of embryo at e9.75 and e10.25 .
embryo be isolate from timed mating and stain use an cd31 antibody a describe in the method .
at e9.75 ( a ) network of large blood vessel be see in the head region of both wild type and erk5 - / - embryo ( red arrow ) , and intersomitic vessel ( blue arrow ) be also apparent in both genotype .
by e10.25 however the blood vessel in the head region of wild type embryo have start to undergo angiogenesis to give rise to branched network of small vessel .
this be not see in the erk5 - / - embryo ( compare red arrow in b ) .
similarly more branching be see in the intersomitic vessel in the wild type than erk5 - / - embryo at e10.25 ( blue arrow ) .
result be representative of three independent experiment .
a knockout of protein upstream of erk5 have be report to cause problem in cardiac development , the development of the heart be also examine .
erk5 - / - embryo undergo normal looping of the heart and be able to establish the basic heart pattern .
at e9.75 however , the myocardium wall of erk5 - / - be thin than in wt embryo , and some bleeding be see in a proportion of erk5 - / - embryo ( fig 8 ) .
figure 8
histological section of the heart at e9.75 .
e9.75 wild type and erk5 - / - embryo be isolate from timed mating and t paraffin section be take and stain with haematoxylin and eosin a describe in the method .
normal patterning of the heart be observe in the erk5 - / - embryo , with both atrial ( at ) and ventrical ( v ) chamber .
the thickness of the atrial wall ( arrow ) in erk5 - / - embryo be thin that in wild type heart ( a ) .
the average thickness of the atrium wall be quantify from 4 wild type and 4 erk5 - / - embryo ( b ) .
erk5 - / - embryo have a significant decrease in atrial wall thickness ( p < 0.01 )
the cardiac defect and change in vascular remodelling see in the erk5 - / - embryo suggest that erk5 may also play a role in placental development , so we therefore study the morphology of erk5 - / - placenta at e9.75 and e10.25 .
haematoxylin and eosin staining of paraffin section from e9.75 placenta ( fig 9a and 9b ) show little difference between wild type and erk5 - / - embryo .
chorioallantoic fusion be able to occur in the absence of erk5 , and the placenta of erk5 - / - mouse form chorionic plate , labyrinth and spongiotophoblast layer .
at this stage , the laryrinth of the erk5 - / - placenta resemble that of the wild type placenta , with both embryonic and maternal blood vessel present .
however at e10.25 ( fig 9c and 9d ) the labyrinth layer in erk5 - / - placenta be thin than in wild type and there be less intermixing between embryonic and maternal blood vessel in the labyrinthine region .
development of trophoblast giant cell do not appear to be affect by erk5 knockout , and stain with the spongiotrophoblast layer maker 4311 [ 24 ] suggest that this layer develop normally ( fig 10a ) .
staining of placental section at e10.25 with an antibody against the cleaved form of caspase 3 show that at e10.25 more apoptosis be occur in the labyrinth of erk5 - / - embryo compare to wild type embryo ( fig 10b ) .
apoptosis be see in endothelial cell , diploid trophoblast cell and some embryonic blood cell .
no cleave caspase 3 staining be observe in e9.75 placenta from either wild type or erk5 - / - placenta .
figure 9
histological section of placenta at e9.75 and e10.25 .
placenta be isolate from e9.75 and e10.25 wild type and erk5 - / - mouse .
transverse paraffin section be take of the placenta and stain with haematoxylin and eosin a describe .
at e9.75 , low ( a ) and high magnification ( b ) picture of the t section be show little difference between wild type and erk5 - / - embryo .
at e9.75 both maternal ( white arrowhead ) and embryonic ( green arrow ) blood vessel , could be see in both wild type and erk5 - / - placenta .
at e10.25 low ( c ) and high magnification ( d ) show that chorionic plate ( cp ) , labyrinth ( l ) and spongiotrophoblast ( s ) layer be be present in both wild type and erk5 - / - embryo .
at e10.25 intermixing of maternal and embryonic blood vessel ( arrow ) be see , however in the erk5 - / - placenta many few maternal blood vessel be apparent in the labyrinthine layer .
scale bar be 0.1 mm and result be representative of three independent experiment .
figure 10
4311 in situ and caspase 3 staining of e10.25 placenta .
a ) wax section of e10.25 wild type and erk5 - / - placenta be analyse by in situ hybridisation with an antisense rna probe against 4311 .
the spongiotrophoblast layer be indicate by an arrow .
b ) wild type and erk5 - / - placenta be isolate from e10.25 embryo , paraffin section take and then stain with an antibody which recognise cleaved caspase 3 .
high number of cleaved caspase 3 postitive cell be see in erk5 - / - embryo compare to wild type control .
in the erk5 - / - placenta , apoptosis be see in endothelial cell ( red arrow ) , trophoblast cell ( green arrow ) and some embryonic blood cell ( yellow arrow ) within the labryinth .
no apoptosis of giant cell be see .
erk5 be require for normal development of the head and low trunk region
by e10.25 all erk5 - / - embryo , and particularly class ii embryo , show problem with the development of the head and low trunk region of the embryo .
superficially , between e9.5 and e10 , these difference be much less apparent , however more detailed analysis of serial section of e9.75 embryo reveal problem in these region in erk5 - / - embryo ( fig 9 , 10 ) .
the timing of this be significant , because at this developmental stage relatively little difference be see between the vasculature and placenta of erk5 - / - and wild type embryo ( fig 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 ) .
in the head region e9.75 section , development of the lumen be retard in erk5 - / - embryo compare to littermates .
the cephalic mesenchyme tissue be less dense with large space in between the cell in erk5 - / - embryo than in wild type embryo .
there be also less contact between the cephalic mesenchyme and neuroepithelial tissue in the erk5 - / - embryo ( fig 11a and 11b ) .
this phenotype be see in all erk5 - / - embryo examine by section at e9.75 when compare to wild type littermates ( n = 5 for l section and n = 5 for t section ) , and be see in all of the serial section for each erk5 - / - embryo .
this defect may in part explain the abnormal head shape of the embryo ( compare whole embryo picture in fig 2b ) .
problem with the cephalic mesenchyme tissue be even more apparent in class ii embryo at e10.25 ( fig 2c ) , and an apparent absence of cephalic mesenchyme could be see clearly in the whole embryo .
to confirm this , e10.25 erk5 - / - embryo be also section and the cephalic mesenchyme compare to that of wild type littermates ( fig 11c and compare to fig 2c ) .
in wild type embryo the cephalic mesenchyme be present , however in erk5 - / - embryo the cephalic mesenchyme be almost completely absent .
in addition , the thickness of the neuroepithelial layer surround the area be the cephalic mesenchyme should have be be much thin in the erk5 - / - embryo when compare to wild type control .
analysis of t section of e9.75 erk5 - / - embryo show that cephalic mesenchyme do contain major blood vessel , similar to those in wild type embryo ( fig 11d and 11e ) .
the blood vessel in the erk5 - / - embryo be however frequently rupture give rise to bleed into the mesenchyme tissue .
the site of bleeding occur where the surround mesenchyme tissue be absent , suggest that the reason for the rupturing of the vessel may have be due to the lack of support provide to the blood vessel .
these result suggest that while the cephalic mesenchyme be able to form in early erk5 - / - embryo ( pre e9.75 ) , it be unable to proliferate and survive through the developmental stage from e9.75 to e10.25 .
we therefore use whole mount tunel analysis of these embryo to examine level of apoptosis .
while little apoptosis be see in the head region of wild type embryo in e9.75 embryo , high level of apoptosis be observe in the head of erk5 - / - embryo ( fig 12 ) .
figure 11
analysis of cephalic mesenchyme .
wild type and erk5 - / - embryo be isolate from timed mating and l or t paraffin section be take and stain with haematoxylin and eosin a describe in the method .
analysis of l section at low ( a ) and high ( b ) magnification show that there be less contact between the neuroepithelium and cephalic mesenchyme ( black arrow ) in erk5 - / - embryo , and that the cephalic mesenchyme be less dense with large space between the cell in the erk5 - / - embryo ( green arrow ) .
section show be representative of 5 wild type and 5 erk5 - / - embryo .
l section be prepare from e10.25 embryo and stain with haematoxylin and eosin ( c ) .
the cephalic mesenchyme be almost completely absent in erk5 - / - embryo and the neuroepithelium be thin .
in erk5 - / - embryo at e9.75 the t section ( d and e ) through the cephalic mesenchyme again show less mesenchymal tissue in the erk5 - / - embryo , however major blood vessel ( arrow ) be see in both wild type and erk5 - / - embryo .
in contrast to wild type embryo , where little bleeding be see in the cephalic mesenchyme , in erk5 - / - embryo bleed into the cephalic mesenchyme be frequently see , especially where the mesenchymal tissue be absent ( arrow in erk5 - / - embryo in d and e ) .
figure 12
analysis of apoptosis in the head of erk5 - / - embryo .
the level of apoptosis in e9.75 embryo be analyse by whole mount tunel staining .
these show that there be greatly increase apoptosis in the erk5 - / - embryo compare to wild type littermate control .
( a ) fluorescent image of the head region of whole mount tunel stain embryo .
( b ) light microscope picture of the same region at the same magnification .
the cephalic mesenchyme be indicate by an arrowhead .
result be representative of 3 experiment .
in the low trunk , the development of the region below the heart appear abnormal in erk5 - / - embryo .
in several embryo , the development of the septum transverum region be retard in most erk5 - / - embryo ( data not show ) .
detailed analysis of transverse section show that while development of the foregut appear normal , development of the mid and hind gut be not .
in erk5 - / - embryo at e9.75 there appear site of overproliferation of cell in some area of the hind to mid gut wall ( fig 13 ) .
figure 13
analysis of hind gut at e9.75 .
e9.75 wild type and erk5 - / - embryo be isolate from timed mating and t paraffin section be take and stain with haematoxylin and eosin a describe in the method ( a ) .
t section through the gut of erk5 - / - mouse show several area were there appear to be hyperproliferation of the gut endothelium ( arrow ) .
this be not observe in wild type embryo .
similar result be see in 3 wild type and 3 erk5 - / - embryo .
discussion
in this report , we show that knockout of erk5 result in embryonic lethality at around e10.25 and show that erk5 - / - embryo have problem with placental development , change in angiogenesis and problem with the development of the head , ( especially the cephalic mesenchyme and neuroepithelium ) , and low trunk of the embryo .
while this work be in progress , two other group report erk5 knockout .
regan et al report that the erk5 knockout be lethal between e9.5 to e11.5 [ 25 ] , while sohn et al report lethality between e10.5 and e11.5 [ 26 ] .
similar effect on placental development and angiogenesis be find in both report , and this phenotype be consistent with the effect describe here .
while both sohn et al and regan et al report that erk5 - / - embryo be growth retard by e10 , neither study report characterisation of the head and trunk region of these embryo .
it be therefore not possible to say if the defect we report in the cephalic mesenchyme and gut be present in these knockout .
difference in the targeting strageties between both sohn et al and regan et al , and that use here may explain why some difference be see in the phenotype observe , a it be not possible to rule out the possibility that truncate fragment of the erk5 protein be express in any one of those knockout , which may give rise to a dominant negative effect .
interestingly however the most severe phenotype report be that of regan et al , and in this study the targeting use here delete the small region of the erk5 gene of all the knockout .
it should also be stress that other difference , such a the strain and source of mouse and e cell use , may also explain difference between the phenotype of the three knockout .
interestingly we find two distinct morphology of erk5 - / - embryo at e10.25 , however the reason for this be not clear .
class i embryo be characterise by severe growth retardation compare to wild type embryo , while class ii embryo be large but have severe abnormality in the development of the head and low trunk .
one possible explanation may relate to the degree of severity of the placental phenotype .
placental defect be a common cause of lethality at this developmental stage in knockout mouse [ 27 , 28 ] .
if the severity of these placental defect vary between individual erk5 - / - embryo due to other genetic or environmental factor , then a a result , the problem in placental development may be sufficient to kill some embryo ( class i ) before e10.25 , but other embryo ( class ii ) survive longer , allow other phenotype to become more pronounced .
a similar effect have also be observe in a knockout of p38α , in which some embryo die at e11.5 , presumably due to placental defect , while some embryo survive past this stage [ 22 ] .
we find that the basic structure of the placenta , include the chorionic plate , labyrinthine trophoblast , labyrinth and spongiotrophoblast layer be able to form in the absence of erk5 .
histological section do not show significant difference between erk5 - / - and wild type placenta at e9.75 ( fig 9 ) .
by e10.25 however the thickness of the labyrinth be reduce in erk5 - / - placenta , and there be less intermixing of the embryonic and maternal blood vessel in the placental labyrinth .
this correlate with increase apoptosis in this region in erk5 - / - placenta ( fig 10 ) .
this be suggestive of a role for erk5 in development of the labyrinth and chorioallantoic branching .
a the labyrinth be the major site of exchange between the embryonic and maternal blood , the problem see in the erk5 - / - placenta be likely to be sufficient to cause embryonic lethality .
erk5 be not the only map kinase signalling protein whose knockout affect labyrinth development .
knockout of mekk3 , an upstream activator of erk5 and p38 [ 23 ] , result in embryonic lethality due in part to a failure of the labyrinth development .
also knockout of p38 and mek1 [ 29 ] result in problem with the labyrinth , a do knockout of several receptor know to activate mapk signalling include lifr [ 30 ] , egfr [ 31 ] , pdgfr [ 32 , 33 ] , met [ 34 ] , and the gdp / gtp exchange factor sos1 [ 35 ] .
consistent with the finding of regan et al and sohn et al , we also find that erk5 knockout result in problem in angiogenesis in the embryo .
analysis of erk5 expression by in situ hybridisation however show that expression of erk5 be not restrict to the develop blood vessel , but be instead express more widely in the embryo .
both sohn et al and regan et al report that expression of various signalling molecule important in angiogenesis be normal in the erk5 knockout .
the reason for the reduction in angiogenesis in the knockout mouse be unclear , but may be related to general growth retardation see in erk5 - / - embryo compare to wild type litermates at e10.25 .
knockout of erk5 also affect cardiac development .
use both whole mount in situ hybridisation and immunoblotting of dissect embryo , we show that expression of erk5 , and it upstream activator mkk5 , be express in the heart at e9.5 to e10.25 , although their expression level be low compare to other region of the embryo ( fig 2 , 3 , 4 , 5 ) .
consistent with this , sohn et al also report that erk5 expression be high in the heart and trunk of the embryo at e9 to e9.5 .
use only rna in situ hybridisation regan at al however report the opposite , with high level of erk5 expression localise to the develop heart and little expression in the rest of the embryo .
the reason for this difference between the report of regan et al , and both our finding and those of sohn et al be unclear .
we find development of the embryonic heart be retard compare to wild type embryo .
similar to the report of sohn et al , we observe that basic patterning of the heart can occur in the absence of erk5 .
once form however , the heart do not develop past it 's basic patterning .
in particular the thickness of the atrial wall at e9.75 be reduce in erk5 knockout embryo ( fig 8 ) .
interestingly , the knockout of erk5 have much less severe effect on heart development compare to the knockout of it potential substrate mef2c , in which embryo die at e8.5 - 9 due to failure to undergo normal looping .
this suggest that either mef2c have function which be independent of it phosphorylation by erk5 in vivo at this developmental stage , or that other kinase such a p38 can also phosphorylate the same site on mef2c a erk5 in vivo .
in this respect it be interesting to note that knockout of p38 result in similar problem in cardiac development to the erk5 knockout .
in contrast to this report , and that of sohn et al , regan et al report that the heart do not undergo normal looping at e9.5 .
the reason for this discrepancy be not clear , but may be due to difference in targeting or the genetic strain of mouse use .
the knockout of erk5 have be previously observe to have a similar phenotype to knockout of receptor tyrosine kinase tie - 2 [ 46 ] and it ligand ang - 1 [ 47 ] , which may suggest that erk5 could function downstream of these receptor in the heart .
there be however no direct evidence to demonstrate this link and further work would be need to establish if this be true .
in isolate cell line erk5 have be report to be activate by the neuregulin receptor erbb2 and erbb3 [ 48 ] , raise the possibility that erk5 may mediate some to the effect of neuregulins in the heart .
a further possible reason for the cardiac phenotype be that erk5 have be report to inhibit the activity of the vegf promoter [ 26 ] , so that increase vegf level in the erk5 - / - embryo may affect cardiac development .
a third possibility be that the cardiac defect observe in erk5 - / - embryo may not be directly due to the lack of erk5 in the heart , and that these phenotype may be cause wholly or in part by stress induce by the placental defect in the knockout .
it have be show in other knockout model that cardiac phenotype can be secondary to other problem in the embryo ( for example see [ 21 , 36 ] ) .
further work , include the use of placental rescue or cardiac specific erk5 knockout , will be require to fully resolve these issue .
we also observe defect in the development of the cephalic mesenchyme and gut in the erk5 - / - embryo .
in erk5 - / - embryo problem be see in the cephalic mesenchyme from e9.75 onwards .
at e9.75 the cephalic mesenchyme appear less dense with large space between the cell and less contact between the cephalic mesenchyme and the neuroepithelium .
however a the embryo develop , this gradually worsen and by e10.25 the cephalic mesenchyme be essentially absent ( fig 11 ) .
several factor suggest that the defect see in the cephalic mesenchyme be primary phenotype directly cause by the loss of erk5 protein in this region .
first , in stiu hybridisation show that erk5 be express in the cephalic mesenchyme from e9.75 ( fig 5 ) .
secondly , these problem could be see in e9.75 erk5 - / - embryo , while at this stage blood vessel and placental development appear relatively normal in the knockout ( fig 6 , 7 , 8 , 9 , 10 ) , suggest that the cephalic mesenchyme and gut defect be not secondary to a lack of angiogenesis .
consistent with this , blood vessel be present in the cephalic mesenchyme of e9.75 erk5 - / - embryo , suggest that the problem with this tissue be not due to a lack of blood supply .
the defect in the cephalic mesenchyme appear to be due to increase apoptosis cause the tissue to be lose , rather than a problem with it initial development .
consistent with the normal initial development of this region , expression pattern of sonic hedgehog and six3 ( l. yan , unpublished data ) at e9.5 be unaffected by the knockout of erk5 .
the increase in apoptosis in the erk5 - / - embryo suggest that erk5 may be involved in regulate cell survival or poliferation .
consistent with this , overexpression of erk5 , or it upstream activator mkk5 , have be show to promote proliferation in some cell type in response to some mitogenic stimulus [ 1 , 37 - 39 ] .
in summary these result be consistent with a role for erk5 in angiogenesis and placental development , and show new function for erk5 in the survival of the cephalic mesenchyme and regulation of survival and apoptosis .
further work however will be require in order to determine the molecular detail of these erk5 function .
method
material
antibody against erk1 / 2 , p38 / sapk2 and cleaved caspase 3 be from cell signalling .
the mkk5 antibody be from stressgen and the cd31 antibody from pharmhigen .
the erk5 antibody have be describe previously [ 7 ] .
generation of erk5 knockout
a genomic clone for erk5 be obtain by screen a 129svj mouse bac genomic library use a mouse erk5 est .
region of the bac correspond to the erk5 be subcloned by either restriction digestion or random fragmentation and sequence .
a targeting vector be design base on this sequence to delete exon 4 to 5 of the erk5 gene .
the vector consist of a first arm of homology ( generate by cloning of a sal i / eco ri fragment ligate to a pcr product generate use the primer gaattcagatctgtgtaagg and aagcttctgaaaatgggaag ) then a neomycin resistance cassette , follow by a second arm of homology ( generate by use the primer catatgagaagaggaaagcctggga and gcggccgcagcagggatcaatatgt ) and a thymidine kinase cassette ( fig 1 ) .
the targeting vector be linearise use not i before transfection into mouse e cell .
mouse embryonic stem cell be grow and transfected a describe previously ( [ 40 ] ) , use embryonic fibroblast from mtk - neo mouse a a feeder layer .
colony resistant to both g418 and ganciclovir be expand and screen for correct incorporation of the erk5 targeting vector .
a probe external to the targeting vector be generate by pcr use the primer caagtaggggaccaagtcaac and ggcccaatggaaaggcttctat .
this probe be use to screen dna double digest with hind iii and mfe i from e cell colony .
positive cell line be inject into blastocyst from a c57bl / 6 × balb / c cross , which be then reimplanted into recipient female mouse [ 41 ] .
chimeric male offspring be then breed to balb / c or c57bl / 6 mouse a indicate and transmission identify by a combination of coat colour and genotyping by southern and pcr analysis .
routine gentoyping of the erk5 mouse be carry out by pcr on tail biopsy .
pcr be carry out use the primer aactaaccaacccaccttccaagac and cactagtactcctactggccccgta to identify wild type and aactaaccaacccaccttccaagac and accaccaagcgaaacatcgcatcg to identify targeted allele .
isolation of embryo
male and female mouse of known genotype be place together and time of fertilisation determine by observation of copulation plug , and noon of that day define a e0.5 .
embryo be dissect from pregnant female at the time indicate , and the yolk sac separate and use to genotype the embryo by pcr .
whole mount in situ hybridisation , immunohistochemistry and tunel staining
embryo be harvest and fix in 4 % paraformaldehyde .
in situ hybridisation be carry out a describe previously [ 42 ] .
probe for erk5 ( correspond to the last 207 amino acid and first 165 bp of the 3 ' utr ) and mkk5 ( correspond to the last 71 amino acid and first 295 bp of the 3 ' utr ) be generate by pcr use the primer actagtactcctactggc and gctcaggtggctgcttaag or actagtaggattcgccggtccttc and atcagtgctgctgatagggcctgac respectively .
pcr product be clone into pbluescript to give antisense sequence when transcribe from the t7 promoter .
whole mount immunohistochemical analysis of embryo use a cd31 antibody a describe [ 43 ] .
whole mount terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase - mediate utp end labelling ( tunel ) be carry out use the in situ cell death detection kit from roche .
sectioning
embryo placenta be fix in formaldehyde , then dehydrate in ethanol , clear in chloroform and then embed in paraffin a describe [ 44 ] .
section be cut and stain use haematoxylin and eosin .
the atrial wall thickness be determine use a modified cavalieri method [ 45 ] .
both the inner and out area of the atrial chamber be measure and the average wall thickness be define a the difference between the average radius of the inner and out area of the atrial chamber .
between 6 and 9 section be analyse per embryo , and 4 wild type and 4 erk5 - / - embryo be analyse .
immunoblotting
tissue be homogenise in 50 mm tris - hcl ph 7.5 , 1 mm egta , 1 mm edta , 1 mm sodium orthovanadate , 50 mm sodium fluoride , 1 mm sodium pyrophosphate , 0.27 m sucrose , 1 % ( v / v ) triton x - 100 , 0.1 % ( v / v ) 2 - mercaptoethanol and complete proteinase inhibitor cocktail ( roche ) .
insoluble material be remove by centrifugation at 13000 g for 5 min at 4 ° c .
soluble lysate ( 30 μg ) be then run on 4 – 12 % polyacrylamide gel ( novex , invitrogen ) and transfer onto nitrocellulose membrane .
primary antibody against erk1 / 2 , p38 and mkk5 be use a describe by the supplier , and the erk5 antibody be use at 0.8 μg / ml .
secondary antibody conjugate to horseradish peroxidase be from pierce , and detection be perform use ecl ( amsersham ) .
author contribution
ly be involved in all aspect of this study and be responsible for most of the experimental work .
jc be responsible for genotyping and management of mouse breeding , pra assist with analysis of the embryo , vmt be responsible for e cell culture and blastocyst injection and ct carry out histological and caspase 3 staining .
jsca be responsible for coordinate the study and draft the paper .
acknowledgement
we would like to thank philip cohen for many helpful discussion and critical reading of the manuscript .
we would also like to thank janet rossant for the 4311 clone .
this research be support by grant from the uk medical research council , astra - zeneca , boehringer - ingelheim , glaxosmithkline , novonordisk and pfizer .
