immunohistochemical study of c-fos-positive lymphocyte infiltrate into human squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck during radiation therapy and it clinical significance .
c-fos have be report to be one of the immediate early gene in signal transduction system after many kind of stress , include ionize radiation .
change in c-fos expression induce by radiation therapy in tumor tissue have not yet be report .
in this study , we have attempt to determine whether c-fos expression be induce by radiotherapy in human squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and to establish a possible correlation between c-fos expression and the therapeutic effect of radiation therapy .
twenty-seven patient with tumor of the oral cavity , oropharynx , and maxillary sinus be examine , all of which be confirm a squamous cell carcinoma .
after obtain the patient ' inform consent , biopsy be perform before treatment and at dos of 4 , 10 , and 20 gy of radiotherapy , and the specimen be preserve in liquid nitrogen for further examination .
serial sectioning of 6 micrometer be perform use a cryostat , and sample be immunohistochemically stain use the streptoavidin -biotin peroxidase method and a monoclonal antibody against c-fos .
three of the 27 patient with squamous cell carcinoma show slight expression of c-fos in their tumor cell before and/or at 4 or 10 gy of radiotherapy .
the tumor show high radiosensitivity .
concern tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte , the rate of moderate or remarkable grade of c-fos-positive lymphocyte before radiotherapy and at radiation dos of 4 , 10 , and 20 gy be 8.0 , 29.2 , 4.8 , and 0 % , respectively .
the relationship between the immunohistochemical finding and the antitumor effect at a radiation dose of 20 gy be examine on the corresponding h & e-stained section .
in patient whose infiltration of c-fos-positive lymphocyte into tumor tissue be moderate or remarkable at 4 gy of radiotherapy , the tumor respond significantly well to radiation therapy ( p < 0.025 , chi2 test ) , and the patient take a significantly favorable clinical course ( p < 0.05 , chi2 test ) .
in a sample from one of the patient , c-fos-positive lymphocyte be identify a cd4 positive and cd8 negative .
therefore , the high radiosensitivity of squamous cell carcinoma in our sample could be explain by an overexpression of c-fos in the tumor-infiltrating lymphocyte induce by small dos of radiation therapy , and these activate lymphocyte exert a cytotoxic effect against the cancer cell .
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from patient with renal insufficiency .
a reduce expression of the vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) in parathyroid gland of uremic animal and human have be observe .
similar result have be obtain by our own group in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) from patient with secondary hyperparathyroidism to chronic renal failure .
however , the reason for these change be not clear .
in the present study , we have investigate the specific uptake of [3h]1,25(oh)2d3 by pbmc of 11 woman with advanced chronic renal failure ( a-crf ) , 6 woman with mild-moderate renal insufficiency ( m-crf ) , and 23 healthy woman .
the mean dissociation constant ( kd ) be similar in both group of patient and in healthy woman ( a-crf : 0.7 +/- 0.5 x 10(-10) m ; m-crf : 1.1 +/- 0.9 x 10(-10) m ; control : 1.0 +/- 0.6 x 10(-10) m ) .
however , vdr concentration be significantly decrease in a-crf ( 0.8 +/- 0.5 fmol/10(7) cell vs. 2.3 +/- 0.9 fmol/10(7) cell in control , p < 0.001 ) , whereas no change be see in m-crf ( 1.7 +/- 0.7 fmol/10(7) cell vs. 2.3 +/- 0.9 fmol/10(7) cell in control ) .
no correlation be see between vdr and serum calcitriol or pth level , when consider both group of patient together or separately .
conversely , a significant negative correlation be find between vdr and serum creatinine value when a-crf and m-crf be consider altogether ( r = -0.63 ; p < 0.01 ) .
treatment with two different schedule of oral calcitriol ( five patient with 0.5 microgram/day for 1 month and four patient with 2 micrograms/day for 7 day ) do not change vdr concentration .
we conclude that the low level of serum 1,25(oh)2d3 of uremia be not responsible for the decrease in vdr concentration find in these patient .
regulation of b-cell commitment to plasma cell or to memory b cell .
during humoral immune response , b-lymphocyte activation be follow by differentiation along either the plasma cell pathway or the memory b-cell pathway .
recent study suggest that cd40-cd40 ligand , ox-ox40 ligand , a group of cytokine and intracellular transcriptional factor may all contribute to b-lymphocyte differentiation control .
induction of phosphatidylinositol turnover and egr-1 mrna expression by crosslinking of surface igm and igd in the human b cell line b104 .
we have previously show that a human b lymphoma cell line , b104 , express surface igm ( sigm ) and surface igd ( sigd ) , and that crosslinking of sigm and sigd by anti- igm antibody ( ab ) and anti- igd ab , respectively , induce ca2+ influx to almost the same degree , whereas only sigm -crosslinking cause b104 cell death .
here , we investigate the accumulation of cyclic amp ( camp ) , the hydrolysis of inositol phosphate , protein kinase c ( pkc ) activity and the induction of egr-1 and c-fos mrna expression by sigm- and sigd- crosslinking to examine difference in the signal mediate through sigm and sigd in b104 cell .
both sigm- and sigd- crosslinking with antibody induce elevation of camp level , phosphatidylinositol turnover , pkc activation and expression of egr-1 and c-fos mrna , although sigm -crosslinking be more effective than sigd -crosslinking , presumably due to the high expression of sigm than of sigd .
egr-1 mrna expression induce by sigm- and sigd- crosslinking be inhibit by h7 , erbstatin and genistein , but not by ha1004 .
erbstatin and genistein inhibit the sig-crosslinking-induced egr-1 mrna expression in a dose-dependent manner parallel to that observe in the inhibition of sig-crosslinking-induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation .
phorbol myristate acetate induce egr-1 mrna expression but forskolin and dibutyryl cyclic amp do not .
these finding suggest that the egr-1 mrna activating signal through sigm and sigd be protein tyrosine kinase- and pkc- dependent , but protein kinase a -independent .
cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 rescue b104 cell from death induce by anti-igm ab , but do not affect the expression of egr-1 and c-fos mrna , show that csa and fk506 affect signal transducer differently from or downstream to these molecule .
the difference in signal transduce through sigm and sigd in b104 cell be discuss .
the zinc finger transcription factor egr-1 be essential for and restrict differentiation along the macrophage lineage .
we have isolate cdna clone of myeloid differentiation primary response ( myd ) gene , activate in the absence of de novo protein synthesis follow induction for differentiation along either the macrophage or granulocyte lineage in human myeloblastic leukemia hl-60 cell .
one cdna clone of a primary response gene , express upon macrophage differentiation , encode for egr-1 , a zinc finger transcription factor .
the egr-1 gene be observe to be transcriptionally silent in hl-60 cell , but active in u-937 and m1 cell , the latter two be predetermine for macrophage differentiation .
egr-1 antisense oligomers in the culture medium block macrophage differentiation in both myeloid leukemia cell line and normal myeloblast .
hl-60 cell constitutively express an egr-1 transgene ( hl-60egr-1 ) could be induce for macrophage , but not granulocyte , differentiation .
these observation indicate that expression of egr-1 be essential for and restrict differentiation of myeloblast along the macrophage lineage .
regulation of the human interleukin-2 gene by the alpha and beta isoforms of the glucocorticoid receptor .
the immunosuppressive effect of glucocorticoid be largely due to transcriptional inhibition of immunologically relevant gene , such a the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene .
these effect be mediate by the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) .
in human , alternative splicing of the gr precursor mrna give rise to two receptor isoforms , term gralpha and grbeta .
we previously demonstrate that grbeta could antagonize gralpha -mediated transactivation of a glucocorticoid- responsive element ( gre ) -driven reporter gene in cos-7 cell .
the present study be design to analyze the role of the two gr isoforms on glucocorticoid-mediated transrepression of the il-2 gene .
use a recently develop transfection technique , we demonstrate that in primary human lymphocyte , stimulation of a 548 bp il-2 promoter -luciferase reporter construct by phorbol ester and calcium ionophore be reverse by dexamethasone to a similar extent a in jurkat t lymphoma cell transfected with a gralpha expression vector .
transfection of a grbeta expression vector alone do not result in il-2 promoter repression in response to glucocorticoid .
furthermore , grbeta do not antagonize the repressive effect of gralpha on il-2 promoter activity .
surprisingly , overexpression of grbeta in jurkat cell do not cause significant inhibition of gralpha -induced transactivation of a gre-dependent luciferase reporter gene either .
we conclude that the transrepressive effect of glucocorticoid on il-2 gene transcription be exclusively mediate by gralpha .
grbeta can neither antagonize gralpha -mediated transactivation nor transrepression in jurkat cell , indicate a cell type-specific pattern of grbeta -mediated antiglucocorticoid activity .
activation of human macrophage by mechanical ventilation in vitro .
positive-pressure mechanical ventilation support gas exchange in patient with respiratory failure but be also responsible for significant lung injury .
in this study , we have develop an in vitro model in which isolate lung cell can be submit to a prolonged cyclic pressure-stretching strain resemble that of conventional mechanical ventilation .
in this model , cell culture on a silastic membrane be elongate up to 7 % of their initial diameter , correspond to a 12 % increase in cell surface .
the lung macrophage be identify a the main cellular source for critical inflammatory mediator such a tumor necrosis factor-alpha , the chemokines interleukin ( il ) -8 and -6 , and matrix metalloproteinase-9 in this model system of mechanical ventilation .
these mediator be measure in supernatant from ventilate alveolar macrophage , monocyte-derived macrophage , and promonocytic thp-1 cell .
nuclear factor-kappab be find to be activate in ventilate macrophage .
synergistic proinflammatory effect of mechanical stress and molecule such a bacterial endotoxin be observe , suggest that mechanical ventilation might be particularly deleterious in preinjured or infected lung .
dexamethasone prevent il-8 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion in ventilate macrophage .
mechanical ventilation induce low level of il-8 secretion by alveolar type ii-like cell .
other lung cell type such a endothelial cell , bronchial cell , and fibroblast fail to produce il-8 in response to a prolonged cyclic pressure-stretching load .
this model be of particular value for explore physical stress-induced signaling pathway , as well a for test the effect of novel ventilatory strategy or adjunctive substance aim at modulate cell activation induce by mechanical ventilation .
positive and negative regulation of the composite octamer motif of the interleukin 2 enhancer by ap-1 , oct-2 , and retinoic acid receptor .
the differentiate agent retinoic acid ( ra ) have be previously report to interfere with 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) / ca(2+) -induced signal for the regulation of the -96 to -66-bp octamer motif find in the enhancer for the interleukin ( il ) -2 gene , which encode a major t lymphocyte growth factor .
the il-2 octamer motif be a composite cis-element which bind oct-1 and oct-2 as well a a tpa / ca(2+) -inducible nuclear factor , previously term octamer-associated protein ( oap40 ) .
we show here that oct-2 , despite the presence of an active transcriptional activation domain , require tpa/ca(2+)-induced signal to strongly transactivate the il-2 octamer motif in jurkat t cell .
this oct-2 -dependent transactivation be inhibit by ra .
the presence of an intact cooh-terminal domain of oct-2 contribute to both tpa / ca(2+) -induced transactivation and the ra -mediated repression .
we also show that both fo and jun component of the ap-1 factor participate in the oap40 complex .
furthermore , transfected c-jun , jun-b , jun-d , c-fos , or fos-b expression vector partially substitute for tpa and ca2+ and cooperate with oct-2 for the transactivation of the combined oap/octamer cis-element .
mutation of the genuine octamer-binding site abrogate both the binding of oct-1 and oct-2 and the tpa / ca(2+) -induced transactivation of the oap /octamer motif .
oap confer to oct-2 responsivity to both tpa /ca2+ and ra , since specific mutation of the ap-1 / oap -binding site significantly reduce the transactivation by oct-2 in response to tpa and ca2+ and abolish the inhibition by ra .
furthermore , retinoic acid receptor ( rar ) alpha be able to inhibit in vitro the formation of the complex between the nuclear ap-1 /oap and it specific bind site , result in the interference with oct-2 -dependent cis-regulatory function of this ap-1 element .
therefore , we propose that the tpa / calcium -activated ap-1 /oap element be the main target of positive or negative regulatory signal influence the il-2 octamer motif , through synergism with oct-2 and antagonism by rar .
a pebp2 alpha/aml-1-related factor increase osteocalcin promoter activity through it binding to an osteoblast-specific cis-acting element .
to identify osteoblast-specific cis-acting element and trans-acting factor , we initiate an analysis of the promoter of a mouse osteocalcin gene , an osteoblast-specific gene .
in this promoter , we identify two osteoblast-specific cis-acting element ( ducy , p. and karsenty , g. ( 1995 ) mol.cell.biol.15 , 1858-1869 ) .
the sequence of one of these element , ose2 , be identical to the dna-binding site of the pebp2 alpha/aml-1 transcription factor , the mammalian homologues of the drosophila runt protein .
here we show , use nuclear extract , recombinant protein , and a specific antiserum against aml-1 protein in dna-binding assay , that one member of this family , aml-1b , bind specifically to ose2 and be immunologically related to osf2 , the factor present in osteoblast nuclear extract that bind to ose2 .
by dna cotransfection experiment , we also demonstrate that aml-1b can increase the activity of a short osteocalcin promoter through it binding to ose2 .
lastly , the different mobility of osteoblast nuclear extract-dna complex compare with t-cell nuclear extract-dna complex , along with the inability of osf2 to be upregulated by retinoic acid , unlike the other pebp2 alpha factor , suggest that osf2 be a new member of this family of transcription factor .
thus , this study demonstrate that aml-1b can increase gene expression of an osteoblast-specific gene through it binding to an osteoblast-specific cis-acting element and present evidence that osf2 be a member of the pebp2 alpha/aml-1 family of transcription factor .
interferon-gamma potentiate the antiviral activity and the expression of interferon-stimulated gene induce by interferon-alpha in u937 cell .
binding of type i interferon ( ifn-alpha/beta ) to specific receptor result in the rapid transcriptional activation , independent of protein synthesis , of ifn-alpha-stimulated gene ( isgs ) in human fibroblast and hela and daudi cell line .
the binding of isgf3 ( ifn-stimulated gene factor 3 ) to the conserve ifn-stimulated response element ( isre ) result in transcriptional activation .
this factor be compose of a dna-binding protein ( isgf3 gamma ) , which normally be present in the cytoplasm , and other ifn-alpha-activated protein which preexist a latent cytoplasmic precursor ( isgf3 alpha ) .
we have find that isg expression in the monocytic u937 cell line differ from most cell line previously examine .
u937 cell express both type i and type ii ifn receptor , but only ifn-alpha be capable of induce antiviral protection in these cell .
pretreatment with ifn-gamma potentiate the ifn-alpha -induced protection , but ifn-gamma alone do not have any antiviral activity .
isg15 mrna accumulation in u937 cell be not detectable before 6 h of ifn-alpha treatment , peak at 24 h , and require protein synthesis .
although ifn-gamma alone do not induce isg expression , ifn-gamma pretreatment markedly increase and hasten isg expression and transcriptional induction .
nuclear extract assay for the presence of isre binding factor by electrophoretic mobility shift assay show that isgf3 be induce by ifn-alpha within 6 h from undetectable basal level in untreated u937 cell .
activation of isgf3 alpha , the latent component of isgf3 , occur rapidly .
however , the increase in isgf3 activity ultimately correlate with the accumulation of isgf3 gamma induce by ifn-alpha or ifn-gamma .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
interleukin-10 inhibit interferon-gamma-induced intercellular adhesion molecule-1 gene transcription in human monocyte .
interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) be a potent monocyte regulatory cytokine that inhibit gene expression of proinflammatory mediator .
in this study , we investigate the mechanism by which il-10 downregulates expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) on the cell surface of normal human monocyte activate with interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) .
il-10 inhibition of ifn-gamma -induced icam-1 expression be apparent as early a 3 hour and be block by an anti- il-10 antibody but not by an isotype-matched control antibody .
northern blot analysis show that il-10 reduce the accumulation of icam-1 mrna in ifn-gamma -stimulated monocyte .
il-10 inhibition of icam-1 steady-state mrna be detect at 3 hour and remain at 24 hour .
nuclear run-on transcription assay show that il-10 inhibit the rate of ifn-gamma -induced transcription of the icam-1 gene , and mrna stability study show that il-10 do not alter the half-life of ifn-gamma -induced icam-1 message .
thus , il-10 inhibit ifn-gamma -induced icam-1 expression in monocyte primarily at the level of gene transcription .
activation of ifn-gamma -responsive gene require tyrosine phosphorylation of the transcriptional factor stat-1alpha ( signal transducer and activator of transcription-1alpha ) .
however , il-10 do not affect ifn-gamma -induced tyrosine phosphorylation of stat-1alpha or alter stat-1alpha binding to the ifn-gamma response element ( ire ) in the icam-1 promoter .
instead , il-10 prevent ifn-gamma -induced binding activity at the nf-kappab site of the tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) -responsive nf-kappab /c-ebp composite element in the icam-1 promoter .
these data indicate that il-10 inhibit ifn-gamma -induced transcription of the icam-1 gene by a regulatory mechanism that may involve nf-kappab .
constitutive expression of p50 homodimer in freshly isolate human monocyte decrease with in vitro and in vivo differentiation : a possible mechanism influence human immunodeficiency virus replication in monocyte and mature macrophage .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replicate more efficiently in vitro in differentiate macrophage than in freshly isolate monocyte .
we investigate whether this may be partly explain by change in expression of nf-kappab with monocyte differentiation .
we demonstrate that constitutive expression of nf-kappab in primary human monocyte change significantly with differentiation in vitro to monocyte-derived macrophage ( mdms ) and differentiation in vivo to alveolar macrophage ( am ) .
freshly isolate monocyte constitutively express high level of transcriptionally inactive p50 homodimer which decrease with time in culture in favor of the transcriptionally active p50/p65 and p50/relb heterodimers .
a in mdms , am constitutively express p50/p65 and p50/relb although at low level .
hiv infection of fresh monocyte fail to induce p50/p65 a see in mdms .
the replacement of p50 homodimers with transcriptionally active heterodimers follow time in culture may partially explain the progressive increase in susceptibility of monocyte to hiv infection during in vitro culture .
the change in nf-kappab component with monocyte differentiation in vivo may also explain the different transcriptional activity of these cell population in hiv -infected individual .
simple derivation of tfiid-dependent rna polymerase ii transcription system from schizosaccharomyces pombe and other organism , and factor require for transcriptional activation .
resolution of whole cell extract through two chromatographic step yield a single protein fraction require only the addition of tfiid for the initiation of transcription at rna polymerase ii promoter .
this approach allow the convenient generation of rna polymerase ii transcription system from saccharomyces cerevisiae , human lymphocyte , and schizosaccharomyces pombe .
tfiids from all three organism be interchangeable among all three system .
the s. cerevisiae and sch. pombe system support effect of acidic activator protein , provide a further protein fraction from s. cerevisiae be supply .
this further fraction be distinct from the mediator of transcriptional activation describe previously and represent a second component in addition to general initiation factor that may facilitate a response to acidic activator .
of the gata-binding protein , only gata-4 selectively regulate the human il-5 gene promoter in il-5 producing cell which express multiple gata-binding protein .
interleukin-5 ( il-5 ) be produce by t lymphocyte and know to support b cell growth and eosinophilic differentiation of the progenitor cell .
use atl-16t cell which express il-5 mrna , we have identify a region , within the human il-5 gene promoter , that regulate il-5 gene transcription .
this cis-acting sequence contain the core binding motif , (a/t)gata(a/g) , for gata-binding family protein and thus suggest the involvement of these family member .
in this report , we describe the cloning of human gata-4 ( hgata-4 ) and show that hgata-4 selectively interact with the -70 gata site within the il-5 proximal promoter region .
by promoter deletion and mutation analysis , we establish this region a a positive regulatory element .
cotransfection experiment reveal that both hgata-4 and pma /a23187 stimulation be necessary for the il-5 promoter activation .
the requirement of another regulatory element call cle0 , which lie downstream of the -70 gata site , be also demonstrate .
atl-16t cell express mrna of three gata-binding protein , hgata-2 , hgata-3 and hgata-4 , and each of them have a potential to bind to the consensus (a/t)gata(g/_a) motif .
however , use atl-16t nuclear extract , we demonstrate that gata-4 be the only gata-binding protein that form specific dna-protein complex with the -70 gata site .
the electrophoretic mobility shift assay with extract of co cell express gata-binding protein show that gata-4 have the high binding affinity to the -70 gata site among the three gata-binding protein .
when the transactivation ability be compare among the three , gata-4 show the high activity .
these result demonstrate the selective role of gata-4 in the transcriptional regulation of the il-5 gene in a circumstance where multiple member of the gata-binding protein be express .
cytokine : shared receptor , distinct function .
that the signal transduction pathway use by the cytokine il-2 and il-15 be identical would suggest that these cytokine have redundant role in lymphoid development ; instead , il-2 be the guardian of thymus-derived t-cell homeostasis , while interleukin-15 promote extrathymic development of t and nk cell .
gata-3 -dependent enhancer activity in il-4 gene regulation .
previously , we analyze the proximal il-4 promoter in direct th2-specific activity .
an 800-base pair proximal promoter confer some th2-selective expression in transgenic mouse .
however , this region direct extremely low reporter mrna level relative to endogenous il-4 mrna , suggest that full gene activity require additional enhancer element .
here , we analyze large genomic il-4 region for enhancer activity and interaction with transcription factor .
the proximal il-4 promoter be only moderately augment by gata-3 , but certain genomic region significantly enhance gata-3 promoter transactivation .
some enhance region contain consensus , gata site that bind th2-specific complex .
however , retroviral transduction of gata-3 into develop t cell induce il-5 to full th2 level , but only partially restore il-4 production .
thus , we propose that gata-3 be permissive , but not sufficient , for full il-4 enhancement and may act through gata element surround the il-13 / il-4 gene locus .
pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate , a potent inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation , prevent apoptosis in human promyelocytic leukemia hl-60 cell and thymocytes .
we examine the effect of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) , which potently block the activation of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , on the induction of apoptosis by a variety of agent .
treatment of a human promyelocytic leukemia cell line , hl-60 , with 10 micrograms/ml etoposide or 2 microm 1-beta-d-arabinofuranosylcytosine induce nf-kappa b activation within 1 hr and subsequently cause apoptosis within 3-4 hr .
the simultaneous addition of 50-500 microm pdtc with these agent block nf-kappa b activation and completely abrogate both morphologically apoptotic change and internucleosomal dna fragmentation for up to 6 hr .
however , pdtc fail to inhibit the endonuclease activity contain in the whole cell lysates .
the inhibitory effect of pdtc be also observe in etoposide - and dexamethasone-induced apoptosis in human thymocytes at a concentration of 1-10 microm .
since pdtc have both antioxidant and metal-ion chelating activity , we test the effect of n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) ( antioxidant ) or o-phenanthroline ( op ) ( metal-ion chelator ) on the induction of apoptosis .
pretreatment of hl-60 cell or thymocytes with 100-500 microm op for 2 hr , but not 10-60 mm nac , suppress subsequent occurrence of apoptosis induce by etoposide .
these result suggest that the activation of nf-kappa b play an important role in the apoptotic process of human hematopoietic cell .
tissue-specific activity of the gammac chain gene promoter depend upon an ets binding site and be regulate by ga-binding protein .
the gammac chain be a subunit of multiple cytokine receptor ( interleukin ( il ) -2 , il-4 , il-7 , il-9 , and il-15 ) , the expression of which be restricted to hematopoietic lineage .
a defect in gammac lead to the x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency characterize by a block in t cell differentiation .
in order to well characterize the human gammac promoter and define the minimal tissue-specific promoter region , progressive 5'-deletion construct of a segment extend 1053 base pair upstream of the major transcription start site be generate and test for promoter activity in various hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic cell type .
the -1053/+34 construct allow promoter activity only in cell of hematopoietic origin , and tissue specificity be conserve in all other construct test .
the region downstream of -90 appear critical for basal promoter activity .
it contain two potential ets binding site conserve in the murine gammac promoter gene , one of which be find essential for functional promoter activity a determine by mutational analysis .
the functional ets binding site be find to bind ets family protein , principally ga-binding protein and elf-1 and could be transactivated by gabpalpha and -beta synergistically .
these result indicate that , a already report for the il2rbeta promoter , ga-binding protein be an essential component of gammac basal promoter activity .
although gabp expression be not restricted to the hematopoietic lineage , it interaction with other specific factor may contribute to the tissue-specific expression of the gammac gene .
permanent occupancy of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer by nf-kappa b be need for persistent viral replication in monocyte .
this work aim to ascertain the role of kappab-responsive element of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) enhancer not only in early initiation but also in long-term maintenance of proviral transcription in cell of the monocytic lineage .
for this purpose , we use three main approach .
the first be to abruptly terminate tumor necrosis factor-induced nf-kappab bind to the enhancer sequence in u1 monocytic cell , use a short pulse of exogenous tumor necrosis factor .
this result in concomitant decrease in nuclear nf-kappab dna-binding activity and endogenous long terminal repeat transcriptional activity .
the second be to suppress the permanent nf-kappab translocation induce by hiv-1 replication itself in chronically infected u937 cell , use a specific proteasome inhibitor ( z-lll-h ) .
as early a 2 h after addition of the inhibitor to the culture medium , there be an inhibition of both constitutive activation of nf-kappab and hiv-1 genome expression .
the third approach be to monitor the replication competence in u937 cell of an infectious hiv-1 provirus carry point mutation in the kappab-responsive element of both long terminal repeat .
compare with it wild-type counterpart , this mutate provirus show a profoundly decrease , z-lll-h -insensitive transcriptional and replicative activity in u937 monocyte .
together , our result indicate that occupancy of the viral enhancer by nf-kappab ( p50/p65 ) heterodimers be require for ongoing transcription of integrate hiv provirus in monocyte , even in cell chronically infect and permanently produce functional hiv tat protein .
thus , the ability of hiv-1 replication to activate nf-kappab be crucial to the intense self-perpetuated viral transcription observe in cell of the monocytic lineage .
the peri-kappa b site mediate human immunodeficiency virus type 2 enhancer activation in monocyte but not in t cell .
human immunodeficiency virus type 2 ( hiv-2 ) , like hiv-1 , cause aid and be associate with aid case primarily in west africa .
hiv-1 and hiv-2 display significant difference in nucleic acid sequence and in the natural history of clinical disease .
consistent with these difference , we have previously demonstrate that the enhancer/promoter region of hiv-2 function quite differently from that of hiv-1 .
whereas activation of the hiv-1 enhancer follow t-cell stimulation be mediate largely through binding of the transcription factor nf-kappa b to two adjacent kappa b site in the hiv-1 long terminal repeat , activation of the hiv-2 enhancer in monocyte and t cell be dependent on four cis-acting element : a single kappa b site , two purine-rich bind site , pub1 and pub2 , and a pet site .
we have now identify a novel cis-acting element within the hiv-2 enhancer , immediately upstream of the kappa b site , designate peri-kappa b .
this site be conserve among isolates of hiv-2 and the closely related simian immunodeficiency virus , and transfection assay show this site to mediate hiv-2 enhancer activation follow stimulation of monocytic but not t-cell line .
this be the first description of an hiv-2 enhancer element which display such monocyte specificity , and no comparable enhancer element have be clearly define for hiv-1 .
while a nuclear factor ( s ) from both peripheral blood monocyte and t cell bind the peri-kappa b site , electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggest that either a different protein bind to this site in monocyte versus t cell or that the protein recognize this enhancer element undergo differential modification in monocyte and t cell , thus support the transfection data .
far , while specific constitutive binding to the peri-kappa b site be see in monocyte , stimulation with phorbol ester induce additional , specific binding .
understand the monocyte-specific function of the peri-kappa b factor may ultimately provide insight into the different role monocyte and t cell play in hiv pathogenesis .
vitamin e therapy of acute ccl4 -induced hepatic injury in mouse be associate with inhibition of nuclear factor kappa b binding .
oxidative stress , with reactive oxygen intermediate formation , may represent a common mechanism by which liver injury be induce by diverse etiology .
oxidative stress enhance nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activity , and nf-kappa b activity have be show to enhance the expression of cytotoxic cytokine .
acute hepatic injury cause by reactive oxygen intermediate production be induce by an intraperitoneal injection of ccl4 in mouse .
this injury be significantly inhibit by intravenous pretreatment of the mouse with a water-soluble emulsion of alpha-tocopherol .
alpha-tocopherol treatment of the mouse give the ccl4 also reduce the nf-kappa b binding to level approach those find in normal mouse .
in vitro treatment of a monocyte/macrophage cell line with ccl4 lead to enhance nf-kappa b binding and an increase in tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) messenger rna level .
liver specimen take from patient with acute fulminant hepatitis have markedly increase nf-kappa b binding activity in comparison with the binding of normal liver .
these data demonstrate that abolish acute hepatic injury with alpha-tocopherol , a free radical scavenger , also eliminate increase nf-kappa b binding .
it be tempting to speculate that enhance nf-kappa b expression cause by free radical production/oxidative stress may modulate liver injury , perhaps through an effect on cytotoxic cytokine synthesis .
fibrinogen activate nf-kappa b transcription factor in mononuclear phagocyte .
adhesion to extracellular matrix be know to modulate leukocyte activation , although the mechanism be not fully understand .
mononuclear phagocyte be expose to fibrinous provisional matrix throughout migration into inflammatory focus , so this study be undertake to determine whether fibrinogen trigger activation of nf-kappa b transcription factor .
u937 cell differentiate with pma in nonadherent culture be show to express two fibrinogen-binding integrins , predominately cd11b/cd18 , and to a less extent , cd11c/cd18 .
cell stimulate with fibrinogen ( 10-100 microg/ml ) /mn2+ ( 50 microm ) for 2 h be examine by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
nf-kappa b activation , minimal in unstimulated cell , be substantially up-regulated by fibrinogen .
fibrinogen also cause activation of ap-1 , but not sp1 or camp response element-binding protein ( creb ) factor .
blocking mabs against cd18 and cd11b abrogate fibrinogen -induced nf-kappa b activation .
to determine the effect on transcriptional regulation , u937 cell be transfected with a plasmid contain the hiv-1 enhancer ( bear two nf-kappa b site ) couple to a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) reporter .
cell be subsequently stimulate with 1 ) pma for 24 h , induce cat activity by 2.6-fold , 2 ) fibrinogen /mn2+ for 2 h , induce cat activity by 3.2-fold , or 3 ) costimulation with fibrinogen and pma , induce 5.7-fold the cat activity induce by pma alone .
we conclude that contact with fibrinogen -derived protein may contribute to mononuclear phagocyte activation by signaling through cd11b/cd18 , result in selective activation of transcriptional regulatory factor , include nf-kappa b .
activation of nf-kappa b in vivo be regulate by multiple phosphorylations .
the activation of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) in intact cell be mechanistically not well understood .
therefore we investigate the modification impose on nf-kappa b /i kappa b component follow stimulation and show that the final step of nf-kappa b induction in vivo involve phosphorylation of several member of the nf-kappa b /i kappa b protein family .
in hela cell as well a in b cell , tnf-alpha rapidly induce nuclear translocation primarily of p50-p65 , but not of c-rel .
both nf-kappa b precursor and i kappa b alpha become strongly phosphorylated with the same kinetics .
in addition to the inducible phosphorylation after stimulation , b lymphocyte contain constitutive nuclear nf-kappa b reveal constitutively phosphorylated p65 and i kappa b alpha .
phosphorylation be accompany by induce processing of the precursor p100 and p105 and by degradation of i kappa b alpha .
a an in vitro model we show that phosphorylation of p105 impede it ability to interact with nf-kappa b , a have be show before for i kappa b alpha .
surprisingly , even p65 , but not c-rel , be phosphorylated after induction in vivo , suggest that tnf-alpha selectively activate only specific nf-kappa b heteromers and that modification regulate not only i kappa b molecule but also nf-kappa b molecule .
in fact , cellular nf-kappa b activity be phosphorylation-dependent and the dna binding activity of p65 -containing nf-kappa b be enhance by phosphorylation in vitro .
furthermore , we find that the induction by hydrogen peroxide of nf-kappa b translocation to the nucleus , which be assume to be trigger by reactive oxygen intermediate , also coincide with incorporation of phosphate into the same subunit that be modify after stimulation by tnf-alpha .
thus , phosphorylation appear to be a general mechanism for activation of nf-kappa b in vivo .
suppression of signal require for activation of transcription factor nf-kappa b in cell constitutively express the htlv-i tax protein .
transient short-term expression of the tax protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type-i ( htlv-i ) lead to activation of the pleiotropic transcription factor nf-kappa b .
consistent with finding obtain with transient expression assay , we observe marked accumulation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b in the nucleus of namalwa b lymphoid cell , which constitutively express tax .
in contrast , nf-kappa b activity be not detect in the nucleus follow long-term expression of tax in jurkat t lymphocyte .
the ability of both mitogen and cytokine to activate nf-kappa b be also block in jurkat cell constitutively express tax .
however , the activation of other mitogen-inducible transcription factor , such a fo and jun , be unaffected .
thus , depend on the cellular environment , the short- and long-term effect of tax expression can be quite different .
consequently , one function of tax in cell infect with htlv-i might involve cell-type-specific suppression , a oppose to activation , of distinct signal pathway .
the cell line describe here should be useful for the delineation of signaling pathway utilize in the selective regulation of gene expression .
identification of essential gata and ets binding motif within the promoter of the platelet glycoprotein ib alpha gene .
platelet glycoprotein ( gp ) ib-ix-v be a multisubunit adhesion receptor that support platelet attachment to thrombogenic surface at site of vascular injury .
the congenital absence of the receptor result in a bleeding disorder associate with " giant " platelet , a condition link the expression of the complex to platelet morphogenesis .
to understand good the expression of the gp ib-ix-v complex , study be undertake to define the essential genetic element support the expression of the alpha-subunit of the complex ( gp ib alpha ) .
gp ib alpha promoter activity be evaluate by transfection of human erythroleukemia cell with reporter plasmid cod for the enzyme , luciferase .
study be initiate with a fragment extend 2,738 nucleotide 5' to the transcription start site and lead to the identification of 253 nucleotide retain full promoter activity in human erythroleukemia cell .
in cell of nonhematopoietic lineage , human endothelial and hela cell , the gp ib alpha promoter activity be no great than background level obtain with promoterless construct .
gel shift assay and site-directed mutagenesis study define essential gata and ets binding motif 93 and 150 nucleotide upstream of the transcription start site , a finding which far substantiate these element a important determinant of megakaryocytic gene expression .
the result define essential cis-acting element responsible for the expression of gp ib alpha and provide insight into molecular event coincide with the release of normal platelet into the bloodstream .
stat6 inhibit human interleukin-4 promoter activity in t cell .
the differentiation of naive t-helper ( th ) cell into cytokine -secreting effector th cell require exposure to multiple signal , include exogenous cytokine .
interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) play a major role in this process by promote the differentiation of il-4 -secreting th2 cell .
in th2 cell , il-4 gene expression be tightly control at the level of transcription by the coordinate binding of multiple transcription factor to regulatory element in the proximal promoter region .
nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) family member play a critical role in regulate il-4 transcription and interact with up to five sequence ( term p0 through p4 ) in the il-4 promoter .
the molecular mechanism by which il-4 induce expression of the il-4 gene be not know , although the il-4 -activated transcription factor signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 ( stat6 ) be require for this effect .
we report here that stat6 interact with three bind site in the human il-4 promoter by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
these site overlap the p1 , p2 , and p4 nfat element .
to investigate the role of stat6 in regulate il-4 transcription , we use stat6 -deficient jurkat t cell with different intact il-4 promoter construct in cotransfection assay .
we show that , whereas a multimerized response element from the germline ige promoter be highly induce by il-4 in stat6 -expressing jurkat cell , the intact human il-4 promoter be repress under similar condition .
we conclude that the function of stat6 be highly dependent on promoter context and that this factor promote il-4 gene expression in an indirect manner .
the c-rel protooncogene product repress nf-kappa b p65 -mediated transcriptional activation of the long terminal repeat of type 1 human immunodeficiency virus .
the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) of the type 1 human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) and the 5' regulatory region of the gene encode the interleukin 2 receptor alpha subunit ( il-2r alpha ) share functional kappa b enhancer element involve in the regulation of these inducible transcription unit during t-cell activation .
these kappa b enhancer element be recognize by a structurally related family of interactive protein that include p50 , p65 , and the product of the c-rel protooncogene ( c-rel ) .
recent biochemical study have show that p65 and p50 form the prototypical nf-kappa b complex , which be rapidly translocate from the cytoplasm to the nucleus during t-cell activation .
this intracellular signaling complex potently stimulate kappa b-directed transcription from either the hiv-1 ltr or the il-2r alpha promoter via the strong transactivation domain present in p65 .
we now demonstrate that nuclear expression of human c-rel , which be induce by either phorbol ester or tumor necrosis factor alpha with delay kinetics relative to p65 , markedly repress p65 -mediated activation of these transcription unit .
these inhibitory effect of c-rel correlate with it dna-binding activity but not with it ability to heterodimerize with p50 , suggest that c-rel inhibition involve competition with p50 /p65 for occupancy of the kappa b enhancer element .
together , these finding suggest that one function of c-rel be a a physiologic repressor of the hiv-1 ltr and il-2r alpha promoter , serve to efficiently counter the strong transcriptional activating effect of p65 .
hla-dma and hla-dmb gene expression function through the conserve s-x-y region .
the mhc class ii homologous protein hla-dma and hla-dmb function in the loading of peptide onto class ii molecule .
like the class ii gene , the hla-dm gene contain upstream regulatory sequence similar to the s-x-y regulatory region as well a additional putative regulatory site .
to determine whether the dm gene be regulate in a similar manner a class ii gene , a series of in vivo and in vitro analysis be perform .
deletion analysis show that expression from the dm promoter be dependent on the conserve s-x-y region .
the class ii-specific transcription factor rfx and ciita be also require for expression , a cell line deficient in these factor fail to allow transcription from the dm promoter .
in addition , in vivo footprint analysis show the putative x and y box to be occupy by transcription factor in wild-type b cell , but not in rfx -deficient b cell .
in astrocyte , ifn-gamma treatment induce increase occupancy of these site .
none of the other putative regulatory site be occupy in vivo , indicate that they may not be functional .
finally , gel shift analysis show synergistic complex formation between protein that bind to the putative x box of the dm gene , a be find for the dra gene .
therefore , the dm gene share a common mechanism of regulation with the class ii gene .
effect of il-10 and il-4 on lps-induced transcription factor ( ap-1 , nf-il6 and nf-kappa b ) which be involve in il-6 regulation .
interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) , like il-4 , be know to inhibit cytokine expression in activate human monocyte .
we show that both il-10 and il-4 inhibit lps-induced il-6 mrna and protein expression by inhibit the transcription rate of the il-6 gene .
the strong inhibition of the il-6 transcription rate prompt u to study the effect of il-10 and il-4 on the expression of transcription factor .
we question whether or not il-10 and il-4 affect the expression of transcription factor that be know to be involve in the control of the il-6 transcription rate , namely activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) , nuclear factor il-6 ( nf-il6 ) , and nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappab ) .
in electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsas ) we show that il-10 and il-4 inhibit lps-induced ap-1 binding activity .
the inhibiting effect of il-4 be slightly more pronounced than that of il-10 .
downregulation of lps-induced ap-1 be accompany , and thus possibly explain , by a reduce expression at mrna level of the two major component of the ap-1 complex , namely c-fos and c-jun a determine by northern experiment .
binding activity of nf-il6 be also strongly inhibit by il-4 whereas il-10 show no effect .
nf-il6 mrna level be not affect by il-10 or il-4 , suggest that il-4 affect binding activity of preexist nf-il6 .
neither il-10 nor il-4 inhibit lps-induced nf-kappa b binding activity .
in agreement with this finding , northern experiment where p65 and p105 mrna level be determine , demonstrate that expression of these component of the nf-kappa b transcription factor be not affect by il-10 or il-4 .
furthermore , neither il-10 nor il-4 show any effect on i-kappa b mrna expression a determine by northern experiment .
thus , il-10 and il-4 similarly affect il-6 expression .
however , for il-4 this be accompany with a reduction of ap-1 and nf-il6 binding activity whereas il-10 only inhibit ap-1 binding activity .
activation of transcription by binding of nf-e1 ( yy1 ) to a newly identify element in the first exon of the human dr alpha gene .
a previously unrecognized element , located downstream of the start site of transcription in the first exon of the dr alpha gene , have be define that enhance promoter activity up to eightfold in a position-dependent manner .
mutation in this dna-binding site abolish binding of a nuclear factor in human b cell nuclear extract and decrease the activity of the dr alpha promoter to a basal level .
significant sequence homology of this element be find in the dna of the dr beta , dp alpha and -beta , and dq alpha gene , always located downstream of the transcriptional start site .
the nuclear factor bind to the dr alpha and dp alpha element but not to the element in the dq alpha gene .
it be identify a nf-e1 ( yy1 ) .
this protein , previously identify by it binding to the ig kappa 3' enhancer and the ig heavy chain mu e1 site , thus also appear to be quite important in the regulation of mhc class ii gene expression .
interleukin 2 signaling involve the phosphorylation of stat protein .
one of the most important cytokine involve in immune response regulation be interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) , a potent activator of the proliferation and function of t lymphocyte and natural killer cell .
the mechanism by which the effect of il-2 be propagate within cell be not understand .
while the binding of il-2 to it receptor be recently show to lead to the activation of two kinase , jak-1 and jak-3 , subsequent step in the signaling pathway to the nucleus that lead to the activation of specific gene have not be characterize .
since many cytokine that activate jak kinase also lead to the tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of member of the stat family of transcription factor , the ability of il-2 to trigger stat phosphorylation be examine .
exposure of activate human t lymphocyte or of a natural killer cell line ( nkl ) to il-2 lead to the phosphorylation of stat1 alpha , stat1 beta , and stat3 , as well a of two stat-related protein , p94 and p95 .
p94 and p95 share homology with stat1 at the phosphorylation site and in the src homology 2 ( sh2 ) domain , but otherwise be immunologically distinct from stat1 .
these stat protein be find to translocate to the nucleus and to bind to a specific dna sequence .
these finding suggest a mechanism by which il-2 bind to it receptor may activate specific gene involve in immune cell function .
opposing effect of glucocorticoid on the rate of apoptosis in neutrophilic and eosinophilic granulocyte .
eosinophil and neutrophil be closely related , terminally differentiate cell that in vitro undergo constitutive cell death by apoptosis .
the onset of apoptosis in both cell type can be delay by hemopoietins and inflammatory mediator .
although there have be a number of report demonstrate that glucocorticoid ( in particular dexamethasone ) antagonize the eosinophil life-prolonging effect of hemopoietins , direct effect of dexamethasone on eosinophil apoptosis have not be document .
in this study we examine the direct effect of glucocorticoid on eosinophil and neutrophil apoptosis in light of their common therapeutic use a anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic /hypereosinophilic agent .
we find that treatment with dexamethasone induce eosinophil apoptosis .
in contrast , dexamethasone be a potent inhibitor of neutrophil apoptosis .
the effect of dexamethasone on both cell type be mediate through the glucocorticoid receptor , i.e. , it be abolish by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist ru38486 .
this be the first description of an agent that promote eosinophil apoptosis while inhibit neutrophil apoptosis , and thus present a novel approach to the study of control of apoptosis in these closely related cell type as well a increase our understanding of the clinical action of glucocorticoid in inflammation .
infection and replication of tat-_human immunodeficiency virus : genetic analysis of ltr and tat mutation in primary and long-term human lymphoid cell .
tat be an essential regulatory protein for the replication of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) .
mutation in the tat gene have be show to block hiv replication in human t cell .
several study have establish that tat release an elongation block to the transcription of hiv long terminal repeat ( ltr ) ; however , it be not know whether this mechanism alone be sufficient to explain the block to hiv replication in human t cell when tat be absent .
it be possible that tat be also need for other function during hiv replication .
to test these hypothesis , we study several tat mutant , include two stop codon mutant and one deletion mutant use replication-competent hiv-1 construct carry wild-type or mutant ltrs with modification in the nf-kappa b and/or sp1 binding site .
in this study , we show that tat-_hiv-1 with wild-type ltrs can replicate in hela cell , and the virus produce from hela cell can infect primary peripheral blood lymphocyte and macrophage .
it be find that the propagation of the tat mutant contain wild-type ltrs be less efficient than that of the ltr-modified tat mutant .
large amount of viral rna and particle be synthesize in infection establish use the tat mutant that contain modify ltrs .
however , this efficient propagation of the ltr-modified tat mutant be restricted to some lymphoid cell line that have be transform with other virus .
thus , despite it essential role for release an elongation block , tat be not otherwise absolutely require for synthesis of full-length hiv transcript and assembly of virus particle .
direct sequencing of the viral genome and reinfection kinetics show no evidence of wild-type reversion even after prolonged infection with the tat -virus .
the implication for in vivo hiv-1 replication and potential application of this system to the study of alternative tat function be discuss .
the dna-binding property of two heat shock factor , hsf1 and hsf3 , be induce in the avian erythroblast cell line hd6 .
avian cell express three heat shock transcription factor ( hsf ) gene correspond to a novel factor , hsf3 , and homologs of mouse and human hsf1 and hsf2 .
analysis of the biochemical and cell biological property of these hsfs reveal that hsf3 have property in common with both hsf1 and hsf2 and yet have feature which be distinct from both .
hsf3 be constitutively express in the erythroblast cell line hd6 , the lymphoblast cell line msb , and embryo fibroblast , and yet it dna-binding activity be induce only upon exposure of hd6 cell to heat shock .
acquisition of hsf3 dna-binding activity in hd6 cell be accompany by oligomerization from a non-dna-binding dimer to a dna-binding trimer , whereas the effect of heat shock on hsf1 be oligomerization of an inert monomer to a dna-binding trimer .
induction of hsf3 dna-binding activity be delay compare with that of hsf1 .
a occur for hsf1 , heat shock lead to the translocation of hsf3 to the nucleus .
hsf exhibit the property of a transcriptional activator , a judge from the stimulatory activity of transiently overexpressed hsf3 measure by use a heat shock element-containing reporter construct and a independently assay by the activity of a chimeric gal4 -hsf3 protein on a gal4 reporter construct .
these result reveal that hsf3 be negatively regulate in avian cell and acquire dna-binding activity in certain cell upon heat shock .
erythropoietin stimulate transcription of the tal1/scl gene and phosphorylation of it protein product .
activation of the tal1 ( or scl ) gene , originally identify through it involvement by a recurrent chromosomal translocation , be the most frequent molecular lesion recognize in t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
the protein product of this gene contain the basic-helix-loop-helix motif characteristic of a large family of transcription factor that bind to the canonical dna sequence canntg a protein heterodimers .
tal1 expression by erythroid cell in vivo and in chemical-induced erythroleukemia cell line in vivo suggest the gene might regulate aspect of erythroid differentiation .
since the terminal event of erythropoiesis be control by the glycoprotein hormone erythropoietin ( epo ) , we investigate whether the expression or activity of the tal1 gene and it protein product be affect by epo in splenic erythroblast from mouse infect with an anemia-inducing strain of friend virus ( fva cell ) .
epo elicit a rapid , dose-related increase in tal1 mrna by increase transcription of the gene and stabilize one of it mrna .
an epo -inducible tal1 dna binding activity be identify in fva cell nuclear extract that subsequently decay despite accumulate mrna and protein .
induction of dna binding activity be associate temporally with epo -induced phosphorylation of nuclear tal1 protein .
these result indicate that epo act at both transcriptional and posttranscriptional level on the tal1 locus in friend virus -induced erythroblast and establish a link between epo signaling mechanism and a member of a family of transcription factor involve in the differentiation of diverse cell lineage .
cloning and characterization of the beta subunit of human proximal sequence element -binding transcription factor and it involvement in transcription of small nuclear rna gene by rna polymerase ii and iii .
the proximal sequence element ( pse ) -binding transcription factor ( ptf ) , which bind the pse of both rna polymerase ii - and rna polymerase iii -transcribed mammalian small nuclear rna ( snrna ) gene , be essential for their transcription .
we previously report the purification of human ptf , a complex of four subunit , and the molecular cloning and characterization of ptf gamma and delta subunit .
here we describe the isolation and expression of a cdna encode ptf beta , as well a functional study use anti- ptf beta antibody .
native ptf beta , in either protein fraction or a ptf-oct-1-dna complex , can be recognize by polyclonal antibody raise against recombinant ptf beta .
immunodepletion study show that ptf beta be require for transcription of both class of snrna gene in vitro .
in addition , immunoprecipitation analysis demonstrate that substantial and similar molar amount of tata-binding protein ( tbp ) and tfiiib90 can weakly associate with ptf at low salt condition , but this association be dramatically reduce at high salt concentration .
along with our previous demonstration of both physical interaction between ptf gamma / ptf delta and tbp and the involvement of tfiiib90 in the transcription of class iii snrna gene , these result be consistent with the notion that a tbp -containing complex related to tfiiib be require for the transcription of class iii snrna gene , and act through weak interaction with the four-subunit ptf .
identification of two novel regulatory element within the 5'-untranslated region of the human a gamma-globin gene .
interaction between the stage selector element ( sse ) in the proximal gamma-globin promoter and hypersensitivity site 2 in the locus control region partly mediate the competitive silencing of the beta-globin promoter in the fetal developmental stage .
we have now demonstrate that a second sse-like element in the 5'-untranslated region of the gamma-gene also contribute to this competitive silencing of the beta-gene .
utilize transient transfection assay in the fetal erythroid cell line , k562 , we have show that the core enhancer of hypersensitivity site 2 can preferentially interact with the proximal gamma-promoter in the absence of the sse , completely silence a link beta-promoter .
mutation of a 20-base pair sequence of the gamma-gene 5'-untranslated region ( utr ) lead to derepression of beta-promoter activity .
a marked activation of gamma-promoter activity be also observe with this mutation , suggest the presence of a repressor .
fine mutagenesis dissect these activity to different region of the 5'-utr .
the stage selector activity be localize to a region centered on nucleotide +13 to +15 .
electromobility shift assay utilize this sequence demonstrate binding of a fetal and erythroid -specific protein .
the repressor activity of the 5'-utr be localize to tandem gata-like site , which appear to bind a complex of two protein , one of which be the erythroid transcription factor gata-1 .
these result indicate that the 5'-utr of the gamma-gene contain sequence that may be important for it transcriptional and developmental regulation .
human t cell transcription factor gata-3 stimulate hiv-1 expression .
a family of transcriptional activate protein , the gata factor , have be show to bind to a consensus motif through a highly conserve c4 zinc finger dna binding domain .
one member of this multigene family , gata-3 , be most abundantly express in t lymphocyte , a cellular target for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection and replication .
in vitro dnase i footprinting analysis reveal six hgata-3 binding site in the u3 region ( the transcriptional regulatory domain ) of the hiv-1 ltr .
cotransfection of an hgata-3 expression plasmid with a reporter plasmid whose transcription be direct by the hiv-1 ltr result in 6- to 10-fold stimulation of ltr -mediated transcription , whereas site specific mutation of these gata site result in virtual abrogation of the activation by hgata-3 .
far , deletion of the hgata-3 transcriptional activation domain abolish gata-dependent hiv-1 trans-activation , show that the stimulation of viral transcription observe be a direct effect of cotransfected hgata-3 .
introduction of the hiv-1 plasmid in which the gata site have be mutate into human t lymphocyte also cause a significant reduction in ltr -mediated transcription at both the basal level and in ( pha- plus pma- ) stimulated t cell .
these observation suggest that in addition to it normal role in t lymphocyte gene regulation , hgata-3 may also play a significant role in hiv-1 transcriptional activation .
disruption of a gata motif in the duffy gene promoter abolish erythroid gene expression in duffy-negative individual .
the mrna for the duffy blood group antigen , the erythrocyte receptor for the plasmodium vivax malaria parasite , have recently be clone and show to encode a widely express chemokine receptor .
here , we show that the duffy antigen/chemokine receptor gene ( darc ) be compose of a single exon and that most duffy-negative black carry a silent fy*b allele with a single t to c substitution at nucleotide -46 .
this mutation impair the promoter activity in erythroid cell by disrupt a bind site for the gata1 erythroid transcription factor .
with the recent characterization of the fy*a and fy*b allele , these finding provide the molecular basis of the duffy blood group system and an explanation for the erythroid-specific repression of the darc gene in duffy-negative individual .
activation of the interleukin 6 gene by mycobacterium tuberculosis or lipopolysaccharide be mediate by nuclear factor nf-il6 and nf-kappa b [ publish erratum appear in proc natl acad sci u s a 1995 apr 11 ; 92 ( 8 ) : 3632 ]
the host response to mycobacterium tuberculosis include granuloma formation at site of infection and systemic symptom .
cytokine have be identify by immunohistochemistry in granuloma in animal model of bacillus calmette-guerin ( bcg ) infection and be release by mononuclear phagocyte upon stimulation by mycobacterial protein .
in this regard , the cytokine interleukin 6 ( il-6 ) may play a role in the clinical manifestation and pathological event of tuberculosis infection .
we have demonstrate that lipoarabinomannan ( lam ) from the mycobacterial cell wall , which be virtually devoid of lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , stimulate mononuclear phagocyte to release il-6 in a dose-response manner .
lam and lp be potent inducer of il-6 gene expression in peripheral blood monocyte .
both lam - and lp -inducible il-6 promoter activity be localized to a dna fragment , position -158 to -49 , by deletion analysis and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay .
two nuclear factor nf-il6 ( position -153 to -145 and -83 to -75 ) and one nuclear factor nf-kappa b ( position -72 to -63 ) motif be present within this fragment .
site-directed mutagenesis of one or more of these motif within the il-6 promoter demonstrate that each have positive regulatory activity and that they could act in a function- and orientation-independent manner .
deletion of all three element abolish inducibility of il-6 promoter activity by both lam and lp .
we conclude that the nf-il6 and nf-kappa b site mediate il-6 induction in response to both lp and lam , act a bacterial or mycobacterial response element .
mll and calm be fuse to af10 in morphologically distinct subset of acute leukemia with translocation t(10;11) : both rearrangement be associate with a poor prognosis .
the translocation t(10;11) (p13;q14) have be observe in acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) as well a acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) .
a recent study show a mll/ af10 fusion in all case of aml with t(10;11) and various breakpoints on chromosome 11 range from q13 to q23 .
we recently clone calm ( clathrin assembly lymphoid myeloid leukemia gene ) , the fusion partner of af10 at 11q14 in the monocytic cell line u937 .
to far define the role of these gene in acute leukemia , 10 case ( 9 aml and 1 all ) with cytogenetically proven t(10;11)(p12-14;q13-21) and well-characterized morphology , immunophenotype , and clinical course be analyze .
interphase fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) be perform with 2 yacs flank the calm region , a yac contig of the mll region , and a yac span the af10 breakpoint .
rearrangement of at least one of these gene be detect in all case with balanced t(10;11) .
in 4 case , include 3 aml with immature morphology ( 1 aml -m0 and 2 aml -m1 ) and 1 all , the signal of the calm yacs be separate in interphase cell , indicate a translocation breakpoint within the calm region .
mll be rearrange in 3 aml with myelomonocytic differentiation ( 2 aml-m2 and 1 aml-m5 ) , include 1 secondary aml .
in all 3 case , a characteristic immunophenotype be identify ( cd4+ , cd13 - , cd33+ , cd65s+ ) .
af-10 be involve in 5 of 6 evaluable case , include 1 case without detectable calm or mll rearrangement .
in 2 complex translocation , none of the three gene be rearrange .
all case have a remarkably poor prognosis , with a mean survival of 9.6 +/- 6.6 month .
for the 7 aml case that be uniformly treat accord to the amlcg86/92 protocol , disease-free and overall survival be significantly bad than for the overall study group ( p = .03 and p = .01 , respectively ) .
we conclude that the t(10;11)(p13;q14) indicate calm and mll rearrangement in morphologically distinct subset of acute leukemia and may be associate with a poor prognosis .
direct demonstration of nfatp dephosphorylation and nuclear localization in activate ht-2 cell use a specific nfatp polyclonal antibody .
nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) regulate transcription of a number of cytokine gene , and nfat dna binding activity be stimulate follow t cell activation .
several line of evidence have suggest that nfat be a substrate for calcineurin , a serine/threonine phosphatase .
use a polyclonal antibody to murine nfatp , western blot analysis of various mouse tissue demonstrate that the 110-130-kda nfatp protein be highly express in thymus and spleen .
treatment of immunoprecipitated nfatp from untreated ht-2 cell with calcineurin result in the dephosphorylation of nfatp , demonstrate that nfatp be an in vitro substrate for calcineurin .
nfatp immunoprecipitated from 32p-labeled ht-2 cell migrate a an approximately 120-kda protein that be localized to the cytosol of the cell .
treatment of the cell with ionomycin result in a decrease in the molecular weight of nfatp and a loss of 32p , consistent with nfatp dephosphorylation .
the dephosphorylation of nfatp be accompany by localization of the protein to the nuclear fraction .
both of these event be block by preincubation of the cell with fk506 , a calcineurin inhibitor , consistent with the hypothesis that nfatp be a calcineurin substrate in cell .
expression of erythroid-specific gene in acute megakaryoblastic leukaemia and transient myeloproliferative disorder in down 's syndrome .
acute megakaryoblastic leukaemia ( m7 ) and transient myeloproliferative disorder in down 's syndrome ( tmd ) be characterize by rapid growth of abnormal blast cell which express megakaryocytic marker .
to clarify property of the blast cell in m7 and tmd case , we examine erythroid marker expression in blast from six case with m7 and seven case with tmd in this study .
erythroid-specific mrna encode gamma-globin and erythroid delta-aminolevulinate synthase be find to be express in blast from most of these case , indicate that majority of the blast in m7 and tmd case have erythroid and megakaryocytic phenotype .
we also find that mrna encode gata-1 and gata-2 be express in all these case .
these result suggest that m7 blast and tmd blast correspond to the erythroid/megakaryocytic bipotential progenitor cell .
glucocorticoid receptor in cord blood lymphocyte of healthy neonate and of preterms suffer from respiratory distress syndrome .
we measure the number of glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) in cord blood lymphocyte and the binding affinity ( kd ) in 15 term and in 20 preterm baby .
thirteen preterms of the latter group receive prenatal steroid treatment .
seven preterms develop neonatal respiratory distress syndrome ( nrds ) .
the number of gr and the kd be similar in the term and preterm ( with and without nrds ) baby .
the maximum (3h)-thymidine incorporation into dna of cord blood lymphocyte from all preterms , with or without nrds be suppress when compare to that from term baby or adult .
this could partly be explain by the antenatal steroid treatment .
sensitivity ( id50 ) of the lymphocyte for the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone be the same in all group .
in this study on the number and function of gr in lymphocyte , we be unable to find a relation between the functionality of the gr and the development of nrds .
genetic characterization of transactivation of the human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 promoter : binding of tax to tax -responsive element 1 be mediate by the cyclic amp-responsive member of the creb/atf family of transcription factor .
to achieve a good understanding of the mechanism of transactivation by tax of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 tax -responsive element 1 ( tre-1 ) , we develop a genetic approach with saccharomyces cerevisiae .
we construct a yeast reporter strain contain the lacz gene under the control of the cyc1 promoter associate with three copy of tre-1 .
expression of either the cyclic amp response element-binding protein ( creb ) or creb fuse to the gal4 activation domain ( gad ) in this strain do not modify the expression of the reporter gene .
tax alone be also inactive .
however , expression of the reporter gene be induce by coexpression of tax and creb .
this effect be strong with the gad-creb fusion protein .
analysis of different creb mutant with this genetic system indicate that the c-terminal 92 amino acid residue , which include the basic domain and the leucine zipper , be necessary and sufficient to mediate transactivation by tax .
to identify cellular protein bind to tre-1 in a tax -dependent manner , this strain be also use to screen a library of human cdna fuse to gad .
of five positive clone isolate from 0.75 x 10(6) yeast colony , four be member of the creb/activating transcription factor ( atf ) family : creb , two isoforms of the cyclic amp-responsive element modulator ( crem ) , and atf-1 .
interestingly , these three protein can be phosphorylated by protein kinase a and thus form a particular subgroup within the creb/atf family .
expression of atf-2 in s. cerevisiae do not activate tre-1 in the presence of tax .
this show that in a eukaryotic nucleus , tax specifically interact with the basic domain -leucine zipper region of atf-1 , creb , and crem .
the fifth clone identify in this screening correspond to the ku autoantigen p70 subunit .
when fuse to gad , the c-terminal region of ku be able to activate transcription via tre-1 but this activation be not dependent on tax .
cyclosporin a inhibit monocyte tissue factor activation in cardiac transplant recipient .
background : fibrin deposition and thrombosis have be implicate in both allograft rejection and vasculopathy after cardiac transplantation .
because monocyte play a pivotal role in the pathophysiology of intravascular coagulation activation through their ability to synthesize tissue factor ( tf ) , we ask ( 1 ) whether monocyte tf activation occur in cardiac transplant recipient and ( 2 ) whether monocyte tf expression be affect by treatment with cyclosporin a ( csa ) .
method and result : we measure level of tf activity in peripheral blood mononuclear cell and highly purify monocyte /macrophages from 10 consecutive cardiac transplant recipient and 10 healthy control subject .
tf activity generate by both unstimulated and endotoxin-stimulated cell be significantly high in transplant recipient than in control subject ( p < .05 ) .
increase monocyte tf expression in transplant recipient be show to be adversely affect by treatment with csa : tf induction be markedly reduce by csa serum concentration reach peak csa drug level .
inhibition of tf induction in the presence of high csa blood concentration be also observe when stimulation of cell be perform with interferon-gamma or interleukin-1beta .
a show by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and electrophoretic mobility shift assay , respectively , treatment with csa lead to decrease tf mrna expression and reduce activation of the nf-kappab transcription factor , which be know to contribute to the induction of the tf promotor in human monocyte .
conclusion : this study demonstrate that tf activation , occur in mononuclear cell of cardiac transplant recipient , be inhibit by treatment with csa .
inhibition of monocyte tf induction by csa may contribute to it successful use in cardiac transplant medicine and might be useful in manage further setting of vascular pathology also know to involve tf expression and nf-kappab activation .
interleukin 10 induced c-fos expression in human b cell by activation of divergent protein kinase .
il-10 be a potent mediator of human b cell growth and plasma cell formation .
however , signal transduction of il-10 in b cell be poorly understand .
in this study the effect of il-10 on the expression of the protooncogene c-fos be investigate , because fo play a potential role in the regulation of b cell proliferation and differentiation .
b cell be purify from buffy coat preparation of healthy blood donor by positive selection use an anti cd20 monoclonal antibody and a minimacs separation unit .
b cell be prestimulated with sac for 48 hr .
then , cell be incubate with medium or il-10 ( 100 ng/ml ) for 10 to 120 min .
rna be extract by phenol/chloroform and c-fos expression be analyze by pcr assisted mrna assay .
a significant 2-4 fold increase of c-fos expression be observe within 30 min of stimulation with il-10 ( p < 0.01 ) .
after 2 hr c-fos expression decline to basal level .
the effect of il-10 be dose-dependent with a maximum stimulation use 100 ng/ml of il-10 .
the il-10 effect on c-fos expression be not block by polymyxin b .
use the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein ( 10 microm ) a complete inhibition of il-10 induced c-fos expression be observe .
in addition , h-7 ( 10 microm ) , a specific inhibitor of serine /threonine kinase , significantly block il-10 mediated c-fos expression ( p < 0.05 ) .
in conclusion , these data show that il-10 induce c-fos expression in human b-cells by activation of tyrosine and serine /threonine kinase .
since this be the first report on il-10 induced signal transduction , these data may help to identify the intracellular mechanism by which il-10 stimulate human b-cells .
involvement of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase in nfat activation in t cell .
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3-k ) have be implicate in the regulation of cell proliferation in many cell type .
we have previously show that in t cell the pi3-k inhibitor , wortmannin , interfere with activation of the mitogen-activated kinase , erk2 , after t cell receptor ( tcr ) stimulation .
to far explore the involvement of pi3-k in t cell activation , we create a set of potentially dominant negative pi3-k construct comprise individual or tandem domain of the regulatory p85 subunit and test their effect on downstream signaling event like erk2 activation and transcription from an nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) element take from the interleukin-2 promoter .
follow tcr stimulation , activation of erk2 be only inhibit by a previously describe truncated form of p85 that can not bind the catalytic subunit , but not by other construct of p85 .
in contrast , several mutant p85 allele have dramatic effect on nfat activation .
most interestingly , the n-terminal sh2 domain have an inhibitory effect , whereas a mutant p85 contain only the two sh2 domain enhance basal nfat activity in a ra -dependent manner .
ionomycin induce synergistic activation of nfat in cell express p85 mutant that contain the c-terminal sh2 domain .
analysis of phosphotyrosine -containing protein bind to truncate p85 construct reveal cooperative binding of the two sh2 domain but no apparent difference between the n- and c- terminal sh2 domain .
wortmannin do not interfere with nfat activation , although it inhibit pi3-k and erk2 activation in the same experiment .
these result suggest that pi3-k be involve in nfat activation through a complex adaptor function of it regulatory subunit and that it lipid kinase activity be dispensable for this effect .
activation of e2f -mediated transcription by human t-cell leukemia virus type i tax protein in a p16 ( ink4a ) -negative t-cell line .
the human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) be a causative agent of adult t-cell leukemia .
although the exact mechanism by which htlv-i contribute to leukemogenesis be still unclear , the tax protein be think to play a major role in this process .
this 40-kda polypeptide be able to interact with the tumor suppressor p16 ( ink4a ) .
consequently , tax can activate the signaling pathway that lead to the release of e2f that in turn induce expression of factor require for cell cycle progression .
in this paper , we demonstrate that tax can also activate e2f -mediated transcription independently of p16 ( ink4a ) .
indeed , when tax be coexpressed with the e2f-1 transcription factor in cem t-cells , which lack expression of p16 ( ink4a ) , it strongly potentiate the e2f -dependent activation of a reporter construct drive by a promoter contain e2f binding site .
this stimulation be abrogate by mutation affect the e2f -binding site .
in addition , tax also stimulate the transcription of the e2f-1 gene itself .
use tax mutant that fail to activate either atf - or nf-kappab-dependent promoter and different 5' truncation mutant of the e2f-1 promoter , we show that the tax -dependent transcriptional control of the e2f1 gene involve , at least in part , the atf binding site located in the e2f-1 promoter .
differentiation-associated expression of the epstein-barr virus bzlf1 transactivator protein in oral hairy leukoplakia .
the bzlf1 protein of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) be a key immediate-early protein which have be show to disrupt virus latency in ebv -infected b cell .
we have generate a monoclonal antibody , bz1 , to bzlf1 which react in immunohistology , immunoblotting , and immunoprecipitation and which recognize both the active , dimeric form and the inactive , monomeric form of the protein .
biopsy of oral hairy leukoplakia , an aids-associated lesion characterize by high-level ebv replication , be examine by immunohistochemistry use the bz1 monoclonal antibody .
a differentiation-associated pattern of bzlf1 expression be observe , bz1 react with nucleus of the upper spinous layer of the lesion .
this finding suggest that the bzlf1 promoter may be regulate by the degree of squamous differentiation .
a comparison of in situ hybridization to ebv dna and viral capsid antigen stain with bz1 reactivity suggest that bzlf1 expression precede rampant virus replication .
the inability to detect ebv in the lower epithelial layer of oral hairy leukoplakia raise question concern the nature of ebv latency and persistence in stratified squamous epithelium .
am580 , a stable benzoic derivative of retinoic acid , have powerful and selective cyto-differentiating effect on acute promyelocytic leukemia cell .
all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) be successfully use in the cyto-differentiating treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) .
paradoxically , apl cell express pml-rar , an aberrant form of the retinoic acid receptor type alpha ( rar alpha ) derive from the leukemia-specific t(15;17) chromosomal translocation .
we show here that am580 , a stable retinobenzoic derivative originally synthesize a a rar alpha agonist , be a powerful inducer of granulocytic maturation in nb4 , an apl -derived cell line , and in freshly isolate apl blast .
after treatment of apl cell with am580 either alone or in combination with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) , the compound induce granulocytic maturation , a assess by determination of the level of leukocyte alkaline phosphatase , cd11b , cd33 , and g-csf receptor mrna , at concentration that be 10- to 100-fold low than those of atra necessary to produce similar effect .
by contrast , am580 be not effective a atra in modulate the expression of these differentiation marker in the hl-60 cell line and in freshly isolate granulocyte obtain from the peripheral blood of chronic myelogenous leukemia patient during the stable phase of the disease .
in nb4 cell , two other synthetic nonselective rar ligand be capable of induce lap as much a am580 , whereas rar beta- or rar gamma-specific ligand be totally ineffective .
these result show that am580 be more powerful than atra in modulate the expression of differentiation antigen only in cell in which pml-rar be present .
binding experiment , use cos-7 cell transiently transfected with pml-rar and the normal rar alpha , show that am580 have a low affinity than atra for both receptor .
however , in the presence of pml-rar , the synthetic retinoid be a much good transactivator of retinoic acid -responsive element-containing promoter than the natural retinoid , whereas , in the presence of rar alpha , am580 and atra have similar activity .
this may explain the strong cyto-differentiating potential of am580 in pml-rar -containing leukemic cell .
hypoxia enhance induction of endothelial icam-1 : role for metabolic acidosis and proteasomes .
intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( icam-1 ) be an important molecule in promotion of polymorphonuclear neutrophil transendothelial migration during inflammation .
coincident with many inflammatory disease be tissue hypoxia .
thus we hypothesize that combination of hypoxia and inflammatory stimulus may differentially regulate expression of endothelial icam-1 .
human endothelial cell be expose to hypoxia in the presence or absence of add lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) and examine for expression of functional icam-1 .
although hypoxia alone do not induce icam-1 , the combination of lp and hypoxia enhance ( 3 +/- 0.4-fold over normoxia ) icam-1 expression .
combination of hypoxia and lp significantly increase lymphocyte binding , and such increase be inhibit by addition of anti- icam-1 antibody or antisense oligonucleotides .
hypoxic endothelium show a > 10-fold increase in sensitivity to inhibitor of proteasome activation , and combination of hypoxia and lp enhance proteasome -dependent cytoplasmic-to-nuclear localization of the nuclear transcription factor-kappa b p65 ( rel a ) subunit .
such proteasome activation correlate with hypoxia -evoked decrease in both extracellular and intracellular ph .
we conclude from these study that endothelial hypoxia provide a novel , proteasome -dependent stimulus for icam-1 induction .
construction and biological characterization of an interleukin-12 fusion protein ( flexi-12 ) : delivery to acute myeloid leukemic blast use adeno-associated virus .
interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) be a cytokine that exhibit pleiotropic effect on lymphocyte and natural killer cell and have be show to have promise for the immunotherapy of cancer .
the combination of the immune costimulatory molecule b7.1 and il-12 have be show to be synergistic for t cell activation .
by transfecting tumor cell with both il-12 and b7.1 cdna , it may be possible to use these modify target a vaccine .
a major obstacle in design a vector to deliver these gene result from the structure of il-12 .
functional il-12 be a heterodimer compose of two distinct subunit that be encode by separate gene on different chromosome .
production of functional il-12 require the coordinate expression of both gene .
this present several problem in vector , particularly those in which additional gene , either a co-stimulatory gene or a selectable marker , be insert .
therefore , we have construct a single cdna that encode a single-chain protein , call flexi-12 , which retain all of the biological characteristic of recombinant il-12 ( ril-12 ) .
the monomeric polypeptide flexi-12 be able to induce the proliferation of phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) blast , induce pha blast to secrete interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) and additionally , by preincubation , enhance the killing of k562 target by pbls .
these phenomenon be in a dose-dependent manner comparable to that see with ril-12 .
we have also show that tyrosine phosphorylation of the stat 4 transcription factor , which have be show to be unique to the il-12 signaling pathway , occur with flexi-12 at level similar to those see with ril-12 .
we have package flexi-12 into a recombinant adeno-associated virus ( aav ) and use this vector to infect acute myeloid leukemic ( aml ) blast .
infected aml blast produce between 2 and 6 ng of il-12/10 ( 6 ) cell per ml per 48 hr .
these study also confirm that aav be an efficient delivery vehicle for cytokine to leukemic cell .
direct analysis of these modify cell act a tumor vaccine be underway .
the cellular oncogene c-myb can interact synergistically with the epstein-barr virus bzlf1 transactivator in lymphoid cell .
regulation of replicative function in the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) genome be mediate through activation of a virally encode transcription factor , z ( bzlf1 ) .
we have show that the z gene product , which bind to ap-1 site a a homodimer and have sequence similarity to c-fos , can efficiently activate the ebv early promoter , bmrf1 , in certain cell type ( i.e. , hela cell ) but not others ( i.e. , jurkat cell ) .
here we demonstrate that the c-myb proto-oncogene product , which be itself a dna-binding protein and transcriptional transactivator , can interact synergistically with z in activate the bmrf1 promoter in jurkat cell ( a t-cell line ) or raji cell ( an ebv -positive b-cell ) , whereas the c-myb gene product by itself have little effect .
the simian virus 40 early promoter be also synergistically activate by the z/c-myb combination .
synergistic transactivation of the bmrf1 promoter by the z/c-myb combination appear to involve direct binding by the z protein but not the c-myb protein .
a 30-bp sequence in the bmrf1 promoter which contain a z binding site ( a consensus ap-1 site ) be sufficient to transfer high-level lymphoid-specific responsiveness to the z/c-myb combination to a heterologous promoter .
that the c-myb oncogene product can interact synergistically with an ebv -encoded member of the leucine zipper protein family suggest c-myb be likely to engage in similar interaction with cellularly encode transcription factor .
glucocorticoid receptor in systemic lupus erythematosus .
glucocorticosteroids remain the major treatment modality for systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) , but their mechanism of action be unclear .
over the past decade it have become clear that glucocorticosteroid receptor play a significant role in the mechanism of glucocorticosteroid action .
we study glucocorticosteroid receptor density and affinity on peripheral blood mononuclear cell by the glucocorticosteroid binding assay in 33 patient with sle who have take no glucocorticosteroid for the previous 6 month and in 32 healthy control .
patient ' disease activity be measure by the sle disease activity index ( sledai ) .
glucocorticosteroid receptor on leukocyte of patient with sle be significantly high than in healthy control ( 4419 +/- 306 v 3369 +/- 196 , p less than 0.005 ) .
the binding affinity be not different between patient and control .
there be no correlation between glucocorticosteroid receptor number and sle disease activity .
retinoid differentiation therapy in promyelocytic leukemia .
acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) be a specific type of acute myeloid leukemia characterize by the morphology of the blast cell , a specific t(15;17) translocation , and risk of definite coagulopathy .
recently this leukemia be far characterize by an exquisite sensitivity to all-trans retinoic acid 's differentiation effect and the production of a fusion gene alter the gene of raralpha and a novel gene pml .
in vivo differentiation therapy with retinoids in apl patient follow strict guideline related both to the apl cell and the biodisposal of all-trans retinoic acid .
cupric ion block nf kappa b activation through inhibit the signal-induced phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha .
a transcription factor nf kappa b , which regulate expression of various cellular gene involve in immune response and viral gene include hiv , be sequester in the cytoplasm a a complex with an inhibitory protein i kappa b .
various extracellular signal induce phosphorylation and rapid degradation of i kappa b alpha to release nf kappa b .
cu2+ be find to inhibit the activation of nf kappa b induce by tnf-alpha , tpa , or h2o2 .
deoxycholate treatment of the cytoplasmic extract prepare from cell stimulate by tnf-alpha in the presence of cu2+ result in the release of nf kappa b from i kappa b alpha , indicate that cu2+ interfere with the dissociation of the nf kappa b -i kappa b complex .
neither phosphorylation nor degradation of i kappa b alpha be observe upon tnf-alpha stimulation in the presence of cu2+ .
these result indicate that cu2+ inhibit the release of nf kappa b by blockade of a signal lead to the phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha .
nf-kappa b -independent suppression of hiv expression by ascorbic acid .
ascorbic acid ( ascorbate or vitamin c ) have be show to suppress the induction of hiv in latently infected t lymphocytic cell follow stimulation with a tumor promoter ( pma ) and inflammatory cytokine ( tnf-alpha ) .
to assess whether this inhibition be mediate via modulation of the cellular transcription factor , nf-kappa b , we carry out gel shift analysis on nuclear extract prepare under different condition of cell stimulation in the presence or absence of ascorbate , n-acetylcysteine ( nac ) , or zidovudine ( azt ) .
pretreatment of ach-2 t cell by nac follow by stimulation with pma , tnf-alpha , or hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) result in strong suppression of nf-kappa b activation .
in contrast , neither ascorbate nor azt affect nf-kappa b activity under all three induction condition in the ach-2 cell line .
ascorbate and azt also have no effect on nf-kappa b activation follow tnf-alpha- or pma- induced stimulation of u1 promonocytic cell .
these result suggest that the molecular mechanism of hiv inhibition by ascorbate be not mediate via nf-kappa b inhibition , unlike that see with other antioxidant .
thrombopoietin and it receptor .
thrombopoietin ( tpo ) , the primary physiological regulator of platelet production , be initially think to be a lineage-specific factor act predominantly on megakaryocytopoiesis .
detailed study establish that this cytokine mediate biological effect on a broad spectrum of hematopoietic progenitor cell , include stem cell .
tpo be a hormone constitutively produce mainly by the liver and kidney .
plasma tpo level be regulate by the platelet and megakaryocyte mass through mpl receptor binding , internalization and degradation .
the mpl receptor be a member of the hematopoietin receptor superfamily lack intrinsic kinase activity .
upon ligand-induced mpl homodimerization , the major signaling event for proliferation be mediate through the jak2 /stat5 pathway , while differentiation might occur through a prolonged activation of the mapk pathway .
preclinical and clinical study demonstrate the potential use of tpo in a variety of context , but it be too early to evaluate it benefit in reduce platelet transfusion .
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor activate a 72-kda isoform of stat3 in human neutrophil .
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) signaling involve activation of stats , protein that serve the dual function of signal transduction and activation of transcription .
we previously demonstrate that g-csf activate a distinct stat3-like protein in immature and mature normal myeloid cell , statg .
statg in normal immature human myeloid cell , i.e. adult cd34+ bone marrow cell , be compose of stat3beta .
this investigation be undertake to determine the composition of statg in mature normal human myeloid cell , i.e. polymorphonuclear neutrophilic granulocyte ( pmn ) .
these study reveal that the major protein in extract of pmn activate by g-csf to bind the high-affinity serum-inducible element ( hsie ) be a 72-kda protein that cross-reacts with stat3 monoclonal antibody , which we have designate stat3gamma .
stat3gamma be derive from stat3alpha by limited proteolysis and lack the carboxyl-terminal portion of stat3alpha .
because this region of stat3alpha be involve in transcriptional activation , our finding suggest the possibility that stat3gamma may be transcriptionally inactive and may compete with stat3alpha for stat3 binding site in these terminally differentiate myeloid cell
negative regulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expression in monocyte : role of the 65-kda plus 50-kda nf-kappa b dimer .
although monocytic cell can provide a reservoir for viral production in vivo , their regulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) transcription can be either latent , restricted , or productive .
these difference in gene expression have not be molecularly define .
in thp-1 cell with restricted hiv expression , there be an absence of dna-protein binding complex formation with the hiv-1 promoter-enhancer associate with markedly less viral rna production .
this absence of binding be localized to the nf-kappa b region of the hiv-1 enhancer ; the 65-kda plus 50-kda nf-kappa b heterodimer be preferentially lose .
add purify nf-kappa b protein to nuclear extract from cell with restricted expression overcome this lack of binding .
in addition , treatment of these nuclear extract with sodium deoxycholate restore their ability to form the heterodimer , suggest the presence of an inhibitor of nf-kappa b activity .
furthermore , treatment of nuclear extract from these cell that have restricted expression with lipopolysaccharide increase viral production and nf-kappa b activity .
antiserum specific for nf-kappa b binding protein , but not c-rel-specific antiserum , disrupt heterodimer complex formation .
thus , both nf-kappa b -binding complex be need for optimal viral transcription .
binding of the 65-kda plus 50-kda heterodimer to the hiv-1 enhancer can be negatively regulate in monocyte , provide one mechanism restrict hiv-1 gene expression .
activation of primary human t-lymphocytes through cd2 plus cd28 adhesion molecule induce long-term nuclear expression of nf-kappa b .
stimulation of highly purify human t-cells via cd2 and cd28 adhesion molecule induce and maintain proliferation for more than 3 week .
this potent interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) -dependent activation do not require monocyte or accessory cell .
long-lasting il-2 receptivity be associate with high-level expression of the inducible il-2 receptor alpha chain ( il-2r alpha ) gene that be regulate at both transcriptional and posttranscriptional level .
increase of il-2r alpha gene transcription involve the enhance binding of the transcription factor nf-kappa b to it consensus sequence in the 5'-regulatory region of the il-2r alpha gene .
to dissect the molecular basis for the unusually persistent transcription of the il-2r alpha gene , we analyze nuclear nf-kappa b bind to a radiolabeled il-2r alpha kappa b-specific oligonucleotide probe during the time course of cd2 + cd28 activation .
rest t-cell nuclear extract contain kbf1/p50 homodimer .
after stimulation , two new kappa b-specific complex be identify a nf-kappa b p50-p65 heterodimer and putative c-rel homodimer or c-rel-p65 heterodimer .
both inducible complex persist for at least 3 week .
their relative level be very similar for the duration of proliferation .
in parallel , cd2 + cd28 activation trigger a significant intracellular thiol decrease , suggest that oxygen radical be involve in the signaling pathway of adhesion molecule .
finally , micromolar amount of pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate , an oxygen radical scavenger that efficiently block the nuclear appearance of nf-kappa b in t-lymphocytes , also inhibit il-2 secretion , il-2r alpha cell surface expression , and t-cell proliferation .
together , these result suggest that nf-kappa b play an important role in long-term activation of human primary t-lymphocytes via cd2 + cd28 .
impaired cortisol binding to glucocorticoid receptor in hypertensive patient .
we compare glucocorticoid receptor binding characteristic and glucocorticoid responsiveness of human mononuclear leukocyte ( hml ) from hypertensive patient and match normotensive volunteer .
we also consider association of these variable with plasma renin activity , aldosterone , cortisol , corticotropin , and electrolyte concentration .
we calculate binding affinity ( kd ; nmol/l ) and capacity ( bmax ; sites/cell ) for dexamethasone and cortisol from homologous and heterologous competition curve for specific [3h]dexamethasone binding site on hml isolate from the blood of normotensive volunteer and subject with essential hypertension .
glucocorticoid responsiveness of hml be evaluate a ic50 value ( nmol/l ) for dexamethasone and cortisol for the inhibition of lysozyme release .
we measure plasma hormone by radioimmunoassay .
kd value ( mean+/-se ) for cortisol in hml of hypertensive patient be high than in control subject ( 24.6+/-2.4 versus 17.5+/-1.7 nmol/l , p < .04 ) .
binding capacity ( 4978+/-391 versus 4131+/-321 sites/cell ) , kd value for dexamethasone ( 6.7+/-0.5 versus 5.7+/-0.3 nmol/l ) , and ic50 value for dexamethasone ( 3.4+/-0.3 versus 3.1+/-0.2 nmol/l ) and cortisol ( 12.2+/-1.6 versus 9.5+/-0.3 nmol/l ) be not significantly different .
patient with renin value less than 0.13 ng angiotensin i/l per second be markedly less sensitive to cortisol than those with high value .
both kd ( 30.3+/-2.5 versus 19.2+/-2.4 nmol/l ) and ic50 value ( 15.5+/-1.8 versus 8.9+/-1.2 nmol/l ) for cortisol be significantly high in patient with low renin value ( p < .03 ) .
other variable , include plasma hormone and electrolyte value and binding characteristic for dexamethasone , be not different .
these data suggest that cortisol binding to glucocorticoid receptor be slightly impaired in patient with essential hypertension .
in vivo , this could lead to inappropriate binding of cortisol to mineralocorticoid receptor .
hence , decrease sensitivity to cortisol be associate with renin suppression .
this hypothesis be support by evidence of hypertension and low renin activity , which others have describe in patient with primary glucocorticoid resistance due to mutation of the glucocorticoid receptor .
expression of v-src in t cell correlate with nuclear expression of nf-kappa b .
nf-kappa b be a rapidly inducible transcriptional activator that respond to a variety of signal and influence the expression of many gene involve in the immune response .
protein tyrosine kinase transmit signal from cytokine and immune receptor .
very little information exist link these two important class of signal molecule .
we now demonstrate that v-src expression correlate with nuclear expression of a kappa b binding complex similar to that induce by phorbol ester and ionomycin , a detect by electrophoretic mobility shift assay use a variety of kappa b site .
this complex be block by the tyrosine kinase inhibitor , herbimycin a .
the v-src -induced complex comprise the p50 and p65 component of nf-kappa b , a determine by supershift and immunoblot analysis .
a a functional correlate of this finding , transient co-transfection of hiv-1 ltr reporter construct in a different t cell line demonstrate that v-src activate this promoter in a kappa b-dependent manner .
we find that transactivation of the hiv-1 ltr by v-src be more sensitive to mutation of the proximal , rather than the distal , kappa b element .
the implication for t cell receptor signaling and hiv-1 gene expression be consider .
autocrine activation by interferon-gamma of stat factor follow t cell activation .
the activation of t cell require engagement of the t cell receptor/cd3 complex and co-stimulatory molecule , and result in the triggering of several signaling pathway which lead rapidly to the nuclear translocation of several transcription factor , such a nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b and nf-at .
a result of this activation process be the induction of a number of gene , include those encode cytokine such a interleukin-2 , tumor necrosis factor-alpha , and interferon ( ifn ) -gamma which have important immunoregulatory effect .
we report here that a dna-binding factor contain stat1 also become activated in human peripheral blood t lymphocyte or jurkat cell , although not until 1-2 h after stimulation .
activation be delay a further 1-2 hr when mononuclear cell culture be stimulate by an antigen which require processing .
appearance of the stat1 factor be significantly reduce in the presence of cyclosporin a , and block by cycloheximide , indicate that it activation be dependent upon a protein ( s ) synthesize in response to initial signaling event .
neutralize antiserum against ifn-gamma , but not other cytokine test , block activation of the factor almost completely , and ifn-gamma be find in the culture supernatant of stimulate cell at level at which recombinant ifn-gamma could activate the factor in naive cell .
therefore , a stat1 transcription factor be activate by ifn-gamma synthesize and release upon stimulation of t lymphocyte population .
while jurkat cell both secrete and respond to ifn-gamma in an autocrine loop , it seem likely that the respond cell may differ from those synthesize this cytokine in the mononuclear cell culture in the light of the recent report that th1 cell lack the ifn-gamma receptor chain necessary for activation of stat1 ( pernis , a. , gupta , s. , gollob , k.j. , garfein , e. , coffman , r.l. , schindler , c. , and rothman , p. , science 1995 . 269 : 245 ) .
the role of early growth response gene 1 ( egr-1 ) in regulation of the immune response .
the induction of immediate early gene in cell of the immune system be critical to determine the ultimate outcome of exposure to antigen .
the importance of many of these gene relate to the role their transcription factor product play in dictate pattern of expression of downstream , function-related gene .
evidence from several system indicate that the immediate early gene , egr-1 may be of particular importance in the immune system .
recently , the egr-1 promoter have be show to be highly responsive to the diverse biochemical signal generate by antigen and cytokine in cell of the immune system .
furthermore , an important role for egr-1 in determine the differentiation pathway of myeloid cell precursor have be recently elaborate .
finally , potential target of regulation by the zinc-finger transcription factor encode by egr-1 include the interleukin-2 , cd44 , icam-1 , and tumor necrosis factor gene .
the role of egr-1 in regulation of the immune response will be discuss in the context of these recent study .
activation of the nf-kappab pathway by inflammatory stimulus in human neutrophil .
activate neutrophil have the ability to upregulate the expression of many gene , in particular those encode cytokine and chemokines , and to subsequently release the corresponding protein .
although little be know to date concern the regulation of gene transcription in neutrophil , it be noteworthy that many of these gene depend on the activation of transcription factor , such a nf-kappab , for inducible expression .
we therefore investigate whether nf-kappab /rel protein be express in human neutrophil , as well a their fate on cell activation .
we now report that dimer consist of p50 nfkappab1 , p65 rela , and/or c-rel be present in neutrophil and that the great part of these protein complex be physically associate with cytoplasmic ikappab-alpha in rest cell .
follow neutrophil stimulation with proinflammatory agonist ( such a lipopolysaccharide [ lp ] , tumor necrosis factor-alpha [ tnf-alpha ] , and fmet-leu-phe ) that induce the production of cytokine and chemokines in these cell , nf-kappab /rel protein translocate to nuclear fraction , result in a transient induction of nf-kappab dna binding activity , a determine in gel mobility shift assay .
the onset of both process be find to be closely parallel by , and dependent on , ikappab-alpha degradation .
proinflammatory neutrophil stimulus also promote the accumulation of ikappab-alpha mrna transcript , result in the reexpression of the ikappab-alpha protein .
to our knowledge , this constitute the first indication that nf-kappab activation may underlie the action of proinflammatory stimulus towards human neutrophil gene expression and , a such , add a new facet to our understanding of neutrophil biology .
alteration of a single serine in the basic domain of the epstein-barr virus zebra protein separate it function of transcriptional activation and disruption of latency .
the zebra protein from epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) activate a switch from the latent to the lytic expression program of the virus .
zebra , a member of the bzip family of dna-binding protein , be a transcriptional activator capable of induce expression from viral lytic cycle promoter .
it have previously be think that zebra 's capacity to disrupt ebv latency reside primarily in it ability to activate transcription of gene that encode product require for lytic replication .
we generate a point mutant of zebra , z ( s186a ) , that be not impaired in it ability to activate transcription ; however , this mutation abolish it ability to initiate the viral lytic cascade .
the mutant , contain a serine -to- alanine substitution in the dna-binding domain of the protein , bind to several known zebra -binding site and activate transcription from reporter bear known zebra -responsive promoter but do not disrupt latency in ebv -infected cell line .
therefore , initiation of the ebv lytic cycle by the zebra protein require a function in addition to transcriptional activation ; a change of serine 186 to alanine in the dna-binding domain of zebra abolish this additional function and uncover a new role for the zebra protein in disruption of ebv latency .
the additional function that be require for initiation of the lytic viral life cycle be likely to require phosphorylation of serine 186 of the zebra protein , which may influence either dna recognition or transcriptional activation of lytic viral promoter in a chromatinized viral episome .
activation of nuclear factor of activate t cell in a cyclosporin a -resistant pathway .
the mechanism of action of the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin a ( csa ) be the inactivation of the ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent serine-threonine phosphatase calcineurin by the drug-immunophilin complex .
inactive calcineurin be unable to activate the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) , a transcription factor require for expression of the interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene .
il-2 production by csa -treated cell be therefore dramatically reduce .
we demonstrate here , however , that nfat can be activate , and significant level of il-2 can be produce by the csa -resistant cd28 -signaling pathway .
in transient transfection assay , both multicopy nfat - and il-2 promoter-beta-galactosidase reporter gene construct could be activate by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) /alpha- cd28 stimulation , and this activation be resistant to csa .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay show the induction of a csa -resistant nfat complex in the nuclear extract of peripheral blood t cell stimulate with pma plus alphacd28 .
peripheral blood t cell stimulate with pma /alphacd28 produce il-2 in the presence of csa .
collectively , these data suggest that nfat can be activate and il-2 can be produce in a calcineurin independent manner .
distinct signaling property identify functionally different cd4 epitope .
the cd4 coreceptor interact with non-polymorphic region of major histocompatibility complex class ii molecule on antigen-presenting cell and contribute to t cell activation .
we have investigate the effect of cd4 triggering on t cell activating signal in a lymphoma model use monoclonal antibody ( mab ) which recognize different cd4 epitope .
we demonstrate that cd4 triggering deliver signal capable of activate the nf-at transcription factor which be require for interleukin-2 gene expression .
whereas different anti-cd4 mab or hiv-1 gp120 could all trigger activation of the protein tyrosine kinase p56lck and p59fyn and phosphorylation of the shc adaptor protein , which mediate signal to ra , they differ significantly in their ability to activate nf-at .
lack of full activation of nf-at could be correlate to a dramatically reduce capacity to induce calcium flux and could be complement with a calcium ionophore .
the result identify functionally distinct epitope on the cd4 coreceptor involve in activation of the ra /protein kinase c and calcium pathway .
a cd28 -associated signaling pathway lead to cytokine gene transcription and t cell proliferation without tcr engagement .
stimulation of rest human t cell with the cd28 -specific mab bw 828 induce proliferation and cytokine synthesis without further requirement for tcr coengagement .
this observation prompt u to postulate that signal 2 ( costimulatory signal ) alone without signal 1 ( tcr signal ) can activate t cell .
to test whether this putative function of cd28 be mediate via a particular signaling pathway , we compare early signaling event initiate in rest t cell by the stimulatory mab bw 828 with signal trigger by the nonstimulating cd28 mab 9.3 .
stimulation of t cell with bw 828 induce an increase in intracellular ca2+ , but do not lead to detectable activation of the protein kinase p56(lck) and c-raf-1 .
this pathway result in the induction of the transcription factor nf-kappa b , nf-at , and protein bind to the cd28 response element of the il-2 promoter .
on the other hand , stimulation of t cell with mab 9.3 increase the level of intracellular ca2+ and trigger the activation of p56(lck) and c-raf-1 , but be unable to induce the binding of transcription factor to the il-2 promoter .
in contrast to the differential signaling of bw 828 and 9.3 in rest t cell , the two mabs exhibit a similar pattern of early signaling event in activate t cell and jurkat cell ( p56(lck) activation , association of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase with cd28 ) , indicate that the signaling capacity of cd28 change with activation .
these data support the view that stimulation through cd28 can induce some effector function in t cell and suggest that this capacity be associate with a particular pattern of early signaling event
nf-kappa b/rel family member regulate the icam-1 promoter in monocytic thp-1 cell .
a kappa b-site be identify in the promoter of the intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) gene , which be involve in regulation of icam-1 expression by tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and glucocorticoid .
we now report on the transcription factor which bind and transactivate this enhancer sequence .
in vitro , the icam-1 kappa b site appear to bind rela and c-rel homodimers as well a heterodimers with nf-kappa b1 , but weakly nf-kappa b1 homodimers .
in addition , both rela and c-rel , but not nf-kappa b1 , be show to transactivate an icam-1 kappa b-reporter construct .
in monocytic thp-1 cell tnf-alpha induce two nuclear complex which in vitro bind to the icam-1 kappa b site .
use antibody in an electrophoretic mobility supershift assay , one of these complex be show to contain nf-kappa b1 and rela , and to bind with high affinity to the consensus kappa b site in the hiv long terminal repeat .
the second complex contain rela , and exhibit high affinity towards the icam-1 kappa b than to the hiv kappa b site .
the glucocorticoid receptor be show to repress activity of both the rela homodimer and the nf-kappa b1 /rela heterodimer .
we argue that in vivo rela homodimers be likely to play a dominant role in tnf-alpha -induced icam-1 transcription in monocytic cell .
oca-b be a functional analog of vp16 but target a separate surface of the oct-1 pou domain [ publish erratum appear in mol cell biol 1998 apr ; 18 ( 4 ) : 2430 ]
oca-b be a b-cell-specific coregulator of the broadly express pou domain transcription factor oct-1 .
oca-b associate with the oct-1 pou domain , a bipartite dna-binding structure contain a pou-specific ( pou[s] ) domain join by a flexible linker to a pou homeodomain ( pou[h] ) .
here , we show that oca-b alter the activity of oct-1 in two way .
it provide a transcriptional activation domain which , unlike oct-1 , activate an mrna-type promoter effectively , and it stabilize oct-1 on the oct-1 -responsive octamer sequence atgcaaat .
these property of oca-b parallel those display by the herpes simplex virus oct-1 coregulator vp16 .
oca-b , however , interact with a different surface of the dna-bound oct-1 pou domain , interact with both the pou(s) and pou(h) domain and the center of the atgcaaat octamer sequence .
the oca-b and vp16 interaction with the oct-1 pou domain be sufficiently different to permit oca-b and vp16 to bind the oct-1 pou domain simultaneously .
these result emphasize the structural versatility of the oct-1 pou domain in it interaction with coregulators .
activation of nuclear factor kappa b in human neuroblastoma cell line .
the nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be a eukaryotic transcription factor .
in b cell and macrophage it be constitutively present in cell nucleus , whereas in many other cell type , nf-kappa b translocate from cytosol to nucleus a a result of transduction by tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) , phorbol ester , and other polyclonal signal .
use neuroblastoma cell line a model , we have show that in neural cell nf-kappa b be present in the cytosol and translocate into nucleus a a result of tnf alpha treatment .
the tnf alpha -activated nf-kappa b be transcriptionally functional .
nf-kappa b activation by tnf alpha be not correlate with cell differentiation or proliferation .
however , reagent such a nerve growth factor ( ngf ) and the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) , which induce phenotypical differentiation of the sh-sy5y neuroblastoma cell line , activate nf-kappa b , but only in that particular cell line .
in a ngf -responsive rat pheochromocytoma cell line , pc12 , pma activate nf-kappa b , whereas ngf do not .
in other neuroblastoma cell line , such a sk-n-be(2) , the lack of pma induction of differentiation be correlate with the lack of nf-kappa b activation .
we find , moreover , that in sk-n-be(2) cell protein kinase c ( pkc ) enzymatic activity be much low compare with that in a control cell line and that the low pkc enzymatic activity be due to low pkc protein expression .
nf-kappa b be not activate by retinoic acid , which induce morphological differentiation of all the neuroblastoma cell line use in the present study .
thus , nf-kappa b activation be not require for neuroblastoma cell differentiation .
furthermore , the result obtain with tnf alpha prove that nf-kappa b activation be not sufficient for induction of neuroblastoma differentiation .
obf-1 , a novel b cell-specific coactivator that stimulate immunoglobulin promoter activity through association with octamer-binding protein .
recent biochemical and genetic study indicate that in addition to the octamer-binding protein oct-1 and oct-2 , other b cell component be require for lymphoid-restricted , octamer site-mediated immunoglobulin gene promoter activity .
use a genetic screen in yeast , we have isolate b cell-derived cdna encoding oct-binding factor 1 ( obf-1 ) , a novel protein that specifically associate with oct-1 and oct-2 .
biochemical study demonstrate that obf-1 have no intrinsic dna-binding activity and recognize the pou domain of oct-1 and oct-2 , but not those of oct-4 and oct-6 .
the obf-1 mrna be express in a highly cell-specific manner , be most abundant in b cell and essentially absent in most of the other cell or tissue test .
furthermore , expression of obf-1 in hela cell selectively stimulate the activity of a natural immunoglobulin promoter in an octamer site -dependent manner .
thus , obf-1 have all the property expect for a b cell-specific transcriptional coactivator protein .
a negative regulatory region contain a glucocorticosteroid response element ( ngre ) in the human interleukin-1beta gene .
interleukin-1 beta ( il-1beta ) be one of the most important inflammatory mediator in human inflammatory and immunological disease .
the regulation of human il-1beta gene expression have be study for several year , and a few regulatory element have be discover in the promoter region .
however , little be know about negative regulation of il-1beta expression at the transcriptional level , which may play an important role in anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive effect .
we have identify a negative regulatory element located in the region between -685 and -395 .
within this region , a 19-bp nuclear factor binding site ( -570 to -552 ) be characterize by dnase i footprinting and electromobility shift assay .
a consensus sequence for a negative glucocorticoid response element ( ngre ) and a transcription activator protein-2 binding site be note within this footprint .
functional study show a 2.5-fold increase in promoter activity when this 19-bp bind site be delete in the reporter construct il-1beta /cat and il-1beta /sv40 promoter /cat .
dexamethasone ( 10(-8) m ) repress chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) production by 75 % in the wild-type fragment but not in a deletion mutant lack the 19-bp site .
a protein of about 150 kd that bind to this negative regulatory sequence be identify by uv cross-linking .
this be the first description of a negative regulatory region responsive to glucocorticoid in a cytokine gene .
characterization of 5' end of human thromboxane receptor gene .
organizational analysis and mapping of protein kinase c -- responsive element regulate expression in platelet .
platelet thromboxane receptor be acutely and reversibly upregulated after acute myocardial infarction .
to determine if platelet thromboxane receptor be under transcriptional control , we isolate and characterize human genomic dna clone contain the 5' flanking region of the thromboxane receptor gene .
the exon-intron structure of the 5' portion of the thromboxane receptor gene be determine initially by compare the nucleotide sequence of the 5' flanking genomic clone with that of a novel human uterine thromboxane receptor cdna that extend the mrna 141 bp far upstream than the previously identify human placental cdna .
a major transcription initiation site be located in three human tissue approximately 560 bp upstream from the translation initiation codon and 380 bp upstream from any previously identify transcription initiation site .
the thromboxane receptor gene have neither a tata nor a caat consensus site .
promoter function of the 5' flanking region of the thromboxane receptor gene be evaluate by transfection of thromboxane receptor gene promoter/ chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) chimera plasmid into platelet-like k562 cell .
thromboxane receptor promoter activity , a assess by cat expression , be relatively weak but be significantly enhance by phorbol ester treatment .
functional analysis of 5' deletion construct in transfected k562 cell and gel mobility shift localize the major phorbol ester -responsive motif in the thromboxane receptor gene promoter to a cluster of activator protein-2 ( ap-2 ) binding consensus site located approximately 1.8 kb 5' from the transcription initiation site .
these study be the first to determine the structure and organization of the 5' end of the thromboxane receptor gene and demonstrate that thromboxane receptor gene expression can be regulate by activation of protein kinase c via induction of an ap-2 -like nuclear factor bind to upstream promoter element .
these finding strongly suggest that the mechanism for previously describe upregulation of platelet thromboxane receptor after acute myocardial infarction be increase thromboxane receptor gene transcription in platelet-progenitor cell .
activation of jak3 , but not jak1 , be critical for il-2 -induced proliferation and stat5 recruitment by a cooh-terminal region of the il-2 receptor beta-chain .
a number of cytokine and growth factor use the jak -stat pathway to signal from the cell membrane to the nucleus .
while homodimerizing cytokine receptor may transmit signal via a single form of jak ( i.e. growth hormone receptor ) , several multicomponent cytokine receptor have be show to require simultaneous activation of pair of different jak kinase ( i.e. interferon receptor ) .
recent evidence for a preferential coupling of jak3 to interleukin-2 receptor-gamma ( il-2r gamma ) and jak1 to il-2r beta support the concept of heterotrans-activation of jak1 and jak3 cause by il-2 -induced heterodimerization of their receptor partner .
the present study verify the ability of il-2 to cause tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of jak1 and jak3 , but demonstrate that il-2 stimulate jak3 to a significantly large extent than jak1 in human t lymphocyte and the yt cell line .
this conclusion be base upon several independent criterion , include more vigorous tyrosine phosphorylation of jak3 , more marked enzymatic activation of jak3 as well a high abundance of jak3 in activate il-2 receptor complex .
furthermore , when human il-2r beta be stably express in murine ba/f3 cell , robust il-2 -induced proliferation and jak3 activation occur without detectable involvement of either jak1 , jak2 or tyk2 .
we therefore propose that il-2 receptor signal transduction do not depend on equimolar heterodimerization of jak1 and jak3 follow il-2 -induced heterodimerization of il-2r beta and il-2r gamma .
nonetheless , a membrane-proximal region of human il-2r beta ( asn240-leu335 ) be critical for jak3 activation , and the amount of jak3 present in activate il-2 receptor complex increase with time , suggest that stabilization of jak3 binding to the receptor complex rely on both il-2r beta and il-2r gamma .
moreover , stat5 be find to be the predominant stat transcription factor use by il-2 in human t cell , and specifically require a cooh-terminal region of il-2r beta ( ser386-val525 ) , while stat5 recruitment be not correlate to activation of il-2r gamma or jak3 .
glucocorticoid receptor in mononuclear cell of patient with sepsis .
glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) hormone-binding activity be study by a whole-cell method in mononuclear cell ( mnc ) from peripheral blood of 7 patient during the hemodynamic compensatory phase of sepsis .
4 patient be receive dopamine , which do not affect the gr count .
the patient ' plasma cortisol concentration be normal or slightly elevated .
despite a wide range , the mean gr count and affinity in mnc from septic patient do not differ from those in normal control , suggest that glucocorticoid could still be effective in the hemodynamic compensatory phase of sepsis .
stimulation of interferon beta gene transcription in vitro by purify nf-kappa b and a novel th protein .
the human interferon beta ( ifn-beta ) regulatory element consist of multiple enhanson domain which be target for transcription factor involve in inducible expression of the promoter .
to far characterize the protein-dna interaction mediate ifn-beta induction , positive regulatory domain ( prd ) ii binding protein be purify from phorbol ester induced jurkat t-cells and from ifn prim , cycloheximide/polyinosinic-polycytidylic acid treat hela s3 cell .
from hela cell , two major protein of 52 and 45 kilodaltons ( kd ) copurified with dna binding activity , whereas from t-cells , four protein -- a major protein of 52 kd and three minor protein of 82 , 67 , and 43-47 kd -- be purify .
also , an induction specific dna binding protein be purify from hela cell that interact with the ( aagtga ) 4 tetrahexamer sequence and the prdi domain .
this protein be immunologically distinct from irf-1/isgf2 .
uninduced or sendai virus induced hela extract be use to examine transcription in vitro use a series of ifn beta promoter deletion .
deletion upstream of the prdii element increase transcription in the uninduced extract , indicate predominantly negative regulation of the promoter .
a 2-4-fold increase in ifn-beta promoter transcription be observe in sendai virus induced extract , and deletion of prdi and prdii element decrease this induce level of transcription .
when purify prdii and tetrahexamer binding protein be add to the induce extract , a 4-fold increase in transcription be observe .
these experiment demonstrate that it be possible to modulate ifn-beta transcription in vitro but indicate that additional protein may be require to fully activate ifn-beta transcription .
cloning of the novel human myeloid-cell-specific c/ebp-epsilon transcription factor .
chicken nf-m transcription factor , in cooperation with either c-myb or v-myb , be active in the combinatorial activation of myeloid-cell-specific gene in heterologous cell type , such a embryonic fibroblast .
in human , similar effect be observe with homologous member of the ccaat/enhancer-binding protein ( c/ebp ) family of transcriptional regulator , especially the human homolog of chicken nf-m , c/ebp-beta ( nf-il6 ) .
however , the nf-il6 gene be express in a variety of nonmyeloid cell type and be strongly inducible in response to inflammatory stimulus , make it an unlikely candidate to have an exclusive role a a combinatorial differentiation switch during myelopoiesis in human cell .
by use a reverse transcription-pcr-based approach and a set of primer specific for the dna-binding domain of highly homologous member of the c/ebp family of transcriptional regulator , we have clone a novel human gene encode a member of the c/ebp gene family , identify a the human homolog of crp1 , c/ebp-epsilon .
a 1.2-kb cdna encode full-length human c/ebp-epsilon be clone from a promyelocyte-late myeloblast-derived lambda gt11 library .
molecular analysis of the cdna and genomic clone indicate the presence of two exon encode a protein with an apparent molecular mass of 32 kda and a pi of 9.5 .
primer extension analysis of c/ebp-epsilon mrna detect a single major transcription start site approximately 200 bp upstream of the start codon .
the putative promoter area be similar to those of several other myeloid-cell-specific gene in that it contain no tataaa box but have a number of purine-rich stretch with multiple site for the factor of the ets family of transcriptional regulator .
northern blot analysis indicate a highly restricted mrna expression pattern , with the strong expression occur in promyelocyte and late-myeloblast-like cell line .
western blot and immunoprecipitation study use rabbit anti-c/ebp-epsilon antibody raise against the n-terminal portion of c/ebp-epsilon ( amino acid 1 to 115 ) show that c/ebp-epsilon be a 32-kda nuclear phosphoprotein .
the human c/ebp-epsilon protein exhibit strong and specific binding to double-stranded dna contain consensus c/ebp site .
cotransfection of the c/ebp-epsilon sense and antisense expression construct together with chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter vector contain myeloid-cell-specific c-mim and human myeloperoxidase promoter suggest a role for c/ebp-epsilon transcription factor in the regulation of a subset of myeloid-cell-specific gene .
transient tranfection of a promyelocyte cell line ( nb4 ) with a c/ebp-epsilon expression plasmid increase cell growth by sevenfold , while antisense c/ebp-epsilon cause a fivefold decrease in clonal growth of these cell .
dna-binding phosphoprotein induce after t cell activation : effect of cyclosporin a .
to define novel protein involve in the early transcriptional response during the activation of human t lymphocyte , we use a high-resolution , two-dimensional gel electrophoresis system to identify nuclear , deoxyribonucleic acid ( dna ) binding protein exhibit rapid change in phosphorylation follow cell stimulation .
we identify 18 nuclear protein whose phosphorylation level change more than 5-fold upon activation .
of these , 11 be find to possess dna-binding property .
the 11 phosphoprotein with dna-binding activity , along with 4 others , be analyze far .
phosphoamino acid analysis reveal several set of protein with different phosphorylated residue kinetic analysis of the phosphorylation of the select protein be perform and reveal a complex group of transient and sustained response to cell activation .
finally , the activation-induced change in one set of phosphoprotein be dramatically inhibit by cyclosporin a .
we suggest that these phosphoprotein may be directly involve in regulate the transcriptional response to cellular activation by external stimulus .
nucleolin be one component of the b cell-specific transcription factor and switch region binding protein , lr1 .
lr1 be a b cell-specific , sequence-specific dna binding activity that regulate transcription in activate b cell .
lr1 also bind ig heavy chain switch region sequence and may function in class switch recombination .
lr1 contain two polypeptide , of 106 kda and 45 kda , and here we report that the 106-kda component of lr1 be nucleolin .
this identification , initially make by microsequence analysis , be verify by show that ( i ) lr1 -dna binding activity increase in b cell transfected with a nucleolin cdna expression construct ; ( ii ) lr1 -dna binding activity be recognize by antibody raise against recombinant human nucleolin ; and ( iii ) in b cell transfected with epitope-tagged nucleolin expression construct , the lr1 -dna complex be recognize by the anti-tag antibody .
nucleolin be an abundant nucleolar protein which be believe to play a role in rdna transcription or organization , or rrna processing .
homology between nucleolin and histone h1 suggest that nucleolin may alter dna organization in response to cell cycle control , and the nucleolin component of lr1 may therefore function to organize switch region before , during , or after switch recombination .
the demonstration that nucleolin be a component of a b cell-specific complex that bind switch region sequence suggest that the g-rich switch region may have evolve from rdna .
attenuation of hla-dr expression by mononuclear phagocyte infect with mycobacterium tuberculosis be related to intracellular sequestration of immature class ii heterodimers .
mhc class ii expression be examine in macrophage infect with mycobacterium tuberculosis .
ifn-gamma increase the surface expression of class ii molecule in thp-1 cell and this be markedly reduce in cell infect with m. tuberculosis .
despite this effect , steady state level of hla-dralpha , hla-drbeta , and invariant ( ii ) chain be equivalent in control and infected cell .
metabolic labeling combine with pulse-chase experiment and biochemical analysis show that the majority of class ii molecule in infected cell become resistant to endoglycosidase h , consistent with normal golgi processing .
however , result of intracellular staining and dual color confocal microscopy reveal a significant defect in transport of newly synthesize class ii molecule through the endocytic compartment .
thus , compare with finding in control cell , class ii molecule in infected cell colocalized to a minimal extent with a lysosomal-associated membrane protein-1 + endosomal compartment .
in addition , in contrast to control cell , class ii molecule in infected cell fail to colocalize with endocytosed bsa under condition where this marker be know to label late endosomes , lysosome , and the mhc class ii compartment .
consistent with defective transport along the endocytic pathway , the maturation of sds-stable class ii alphabeta dimer -- dependent upon removal of ii chain and peptide loading of class ii dimer in the mhc class ii compartment -- be markedly impaired in m. tuberculosis -infected cell .
these finding indicate that defective transport and processing of class ii molecule through the endosomal/lysosomal system be responsible for diminish cell surface expression of mhc class ii molecule in cell infect with m. tuberculosis .
modulation of the expression of the ifn-gamma receptor beta-chain control responsiveness to ifn-gamma in human peripheral blood t cell .
ifn-gamma have potent antiproliferative and apoptotic effect in t cell that be important in determine t cell development and polarize differentiation .
therefore , any event that enable t cell to become less responsive to ifn-_gamma may potentially alter immune responsiveness to ag .
in this work , we show that human peripheral blood t cell that be stimulate through the tcr and expand with il-2 be unresponsive to ifn-gamma , a determine by a lack of activation of jak kinase and the transcription factor , stat1 ( alpha ) , a signal transducer and activator of transcription .
this nonresponsiveness occur because of a lack of expression of the beta-_chain ( accessory factor ) of the ifn-gamma receptor , while at the same time maintain ifn-gamma receptor alpha-chain expression .
expression of the beta-chain can be restore by secondary tcr ligation or pma treatment .
t cell blast treat with pma be now responsive to ifn-gamma .
when freshly isolate , highly enriched ( > 98 % ) t cell be examine for ifn-gamma responsiveness ; these cell can respond to ifn-gamma and express beta-chain .
therefore , a t cell progress from primary tcr activation through il-2 -dependent proliferation , follow by secondary tcr stimulation , their responsiveness to ifn-gamma vary , and this may affect their ability to participate in an ongoing immune response .
the interleukin 2 receptor alpha chain /cd25 promoter be a target for nuclear factor of activate t cell .
the expression of the murine interleukin ( il ) -2 receptor alpha chain /cd25 be strongly induce at the transcriptional level after t cell activation .
we show here that nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) factor be involve in the control of cd25 promoter induction in t cell .
nf-atp and nf-atc bind to two site around position -585 and -650 located upstream of the proximal cd25 promoter .
immediately 3' from these nf-at motif , nonconsensus site be located for the binding of ap-1 -like factor .
mutation of site that suppress nf-at binding impair the induction and strong nf-atp -mediated transactivation of the cd25 promoter in t cell .
in t lymphocyte from nf-atp -deficient mouse , the expression of cd25 be severely impaired , lead to a delay il-2 receptor expression after t cell receptor ( tcr ) / cd3 stimulation .
our data indicate an important role for nf-at in the faithful expression of high affinity il-2 receptor and a close link between the tcr -mediated induction of il-2 and il-2 receptor alpha chain promoter , both of which be regulate by nf-at factor .
lipopolysaccharide -induced e-selectin expression require continuous presence of lp and be inhibit by bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein .
endothelial cell stimulate by lp express e-selectin , which play an important role in mediate neutrophil adhesion during inflammation .
e-selectin be induce within 1-2 h , peak at 4-6 h , and gradually return to basal level by 24 h .
rbpi21 , a recombinant n-terminal fragment of human bactericidal/permeability-increasing protein ( bpi ) , inhibit lp -induced e-selectin expression when add at the same time a , and up to 6 h after , lp .
delay administration of rbpi21 also affect lp -mediated activation of the nuclear factor , nf-kappa b .
two to 4 h follow lp addition to endothelial cell , when nf-kappa b be already activate , addition of rbpi21 result in marked reduction of nf-kappa b detectable at 4 or 6 h .
these result indicate that endothelial activation require continuous presence of lp , and rbpi21 act to reverse lp -mediated endothelial activation by interrupt the on-going lp signal .
differentiation of u-937 promonocytic cell by etoposide and icrf-193 , two antitumour dna topoisomerase ii inhibitor with different mechanism of action .
we have compare the action on u-937 human promonocytic leukemia cell of two dna topoisomerase ii inhibitor , namely the epipodophyllotoxin etoposide and the bisdioxopiperazine icrf-193 .
one hour pulse-treatment with 3 microm etoposide cause topoisomerase associated , primary dna breakage , which be rapidly follow by apoptosis .
by contrast , these effect be not observe upon pulse-treatment with 6 microm icrf-193 .
however , continuous treatment with subcytotoxic concentration of etoposide ( 0.15 microm ) and icrf-193 ( 0.3 microm ) produce several similar effect , namely decrease cell proliferation , accumulation of cell at g2 , increase in cell mass , and induction of differentiation .
under these condition , etoposide produce a biphasic activation of protein kinase c , which consist in an early transient activation ( from hour 1 to 6 ) of the membrane-bound enzyme follow by a late activation ( hour 48 ) of the total , membrane-bound and cytosolic enzyme .
by contrast , icrf-193 only provoke a late activation ( from hour 72 to 96 ) of the total enzyme .
when use at differentiation-inducing concentration , both topoisomerase inhibitor cause a great stimulation of ap-1 binding activity , with maximum value at hour 12 in etoposide -treated cell and at hour 48 in icrf-193 -treated cell .
by contrast , the binding activity of the nf-kappa ( b ) and egr-1 transcription factor be little affect .
it be conclude that topoisomerase ii inhibitor may induce the differentiation of promonocytic cell , independently of their capacity to cause dna strand break .
however , there be other effect , such a the early activation of protein kinase c , which be probably derive from the production of primary dna breakage by some anti- topoisomerase drug .
sequential development of structural and functional alteration in t cell from tumor-bearing mouse .
the tcr alpha beta or -gamma delta chain bind the peptide ligand , whereas the associate cd3 delta epsilon gamma and tcr zeta subunit couple the tcr to intracellular signal transduction component .
recently , several group have describe marked alteration in signal transduction element in t cell from cancer patient or in mouse bear tumor for a few week ( > 26 day ) .
the sequence in which these alteration develop be unknown .
the aim of this study be to explore the kinetics of the development of alteration in signal transduction molecule ( tcr zeta chain , nf kappab family protein , and tyrosine kinase p56 ( lck ) ) in mouse bear mc38 colon adenocarcinoma .
the result demonstrate that alteration in nf kappab family protein , specifically the failure of p65 translocation to the nucleus , occur earlier and more frequently than the decrease in zeta-chain .
these defect be parallel by an impaired ability to produce th1 cytokine ( il-2 and ifn-gamma ) .
these initial change be follow by the eventual loss of tcr zeta chain and p56 ( lck ) and a marked decrease in cytotoxic function .
an increase rate of lysosomal degradation be one of the mechanism responsible for the loss of zeta-chain .
transcriptional activity and constitutive nuclear localization of the ets protein elf-1 .
elf-1 be a lymphoid-specific transcription factor that belong to the ets protein family .
it can bind to dna target sequence within a variety of cytokine gene .
we demonstrate that elf-1 be constitutively localized in the nucleus which be dependent on the presence of amino acid 86-265 .
analysis of gal4-elf-1 fusion protein reveal that the n-terminal 86 amino acid of elf-1 contain a transcriptional activation domain , the activity of which be attenuate by an internal repression domain .
furthermore , elf-1 interact specifically with the e74 target sequence and can stimulate transcription drive by the e74 site independent of mitogenic signaling .
thus , elf-1 be able to stimulate gene transcription which may be require for the development and activity of lymphocyte .
cooperation between core binding factor and adjacent promoter element contribute to the tissue-specific expression of interleukin-3 .
tissue-specific expression of interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) be mediate via cis-acting element located within 315 base pair of the transcription start .
this be achieve in part through the positive activity of the ap-1 and elf-1 site in the il-3 promoter .
the contribution to t cell-specific expression by other promoter site be assess in a transient expression assay with il-3 promoter construct link to a luciferase gene , focus initially on the core binding factor ( cbf ) site , which be footprinted in vivo upon t cell activation .
activity of the cbf site be show to be critically dependent on the adjacent activator site act-1 .
together the act-1 and cbf site form a functional unit ( ac unit ) with dual activity .
the ac unit be demonstrate to enhance basal activity of promoter both in fibroblast and t cell .
this activity be far inducible in activate t cell , but not in fibroblast .
in addition to the already identify nip repressor site , evidence be present for a second repressor region that restrict promoter activity in fibroblast .
finally , a novel positive regulatory element have be map in the il-3 promoter between nucleotide -180 and -210 that lead to increase expression in t cell .
together these result demonstrate that t cell expression of il-3 be not specify by the activity of a single tissue-specific element , but instead involve multiple interact element that provide both specific positive regulation in t cell and specific negative regulation in fibroblast .
eosinophil priming by cytokine : from cellular signal to in vivo modulation .
eosinophil play an important role in the effector phase of allergic inflammation .
this review will focus on the conversion of the unprimed eosinophil phenotype in the peripheral blood of normal individual to the primed phenotype find in the peripheral blood and tissue of allergic patient , a phenomenon call priming .
recent data on the signal initiate after cytokine receptor activation on eosinophil will be review .
identification and purification of human stat protein activate in response to interleukin-2 .
a key cytokine induce during the immune response be il-2 .
follow t cell activation , the gene encode il-2 and the various chain of it receptor be transcriptionally induce .
in turn , secrete il-2 serve to stimulate the proliferation and differentiation of t lymphocyte .
several recent study have implicate jak kinase in the signaling pathway induce by il-2 .
follow this lead , we set out to identify transcription factor induce in response to il-2 .
human peripheral blood lymphocyte be observe to contain several il-2 -inducible dna binding activity .
similar activity be also observe in a transform human lymphocyte line , term yt .
we have purify these activity and find that the principal il-2 -inducible component bear significant relatedness to a prolactin-induced transcription factor first identify in sheep mammary gland tissue .
we hypothesize that activation of this protein , designate hstat5 , help govern the biological effect of il-2 during the immune response .
interferon augment pml and pml/rar alpha expression in normal myeloid and acute promyelocytic cell and cooperate with all-trans retinoic acid to induce maturation of a retinoid-resistant promyelocytic cell line .
the pml gene be fuse to the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene ( rar alpha ) in the acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) 15 ; 17 translocation .
pml be express in diverse tissue and cell line and localized in the nucleus with a typical speckled pattern .
in the bone marrow , it be preferentially express in myeloid cell .
pml appear to be transcriptionally regulate by class i and ii interferon , which raise the possibility that interferon modulate the function and growth and differentiation potential of normal myeloid cell and precursor by activate pml -dependent pathway .
similarly , interferon could act on apl cell , alone or in combination with all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) , especially if the pml/rar alpha fusion transcript that result from the t(15;_17) be induce by interferon .
we report here that pml be express at low level or not express in normal circulate human monocyte , lymphocyte , and polymorphonucleate cell , but be markedly induce by interferon ; that pml and pml/rar alpha expression be augment by interferon in the nb4 apl cell line , which carry the t(15;_17) , and in apl blast from patient ; that interferon inhibit growth and survival of nb4 apl cell in cooperation with ra ; that interferon alone have minimal maturation effect on nb4 cell ; and , finally , that interferon gamma , but not alpha or beta , induce maturation and growth suppression of nb4 cell with de novo retinoid resistance , and partially restore ra response .
quantitation of beta 1 triiodothyronine receptor mrna in human tissue by competitive reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction .
thyroid hormone act by bind to nuclear receptor protein , the thyroid hormone receptor ( tr ) alpha and beta .
data from cell culture and animal study indicate that tr expression may be regulate to modulate target organ responsiveness to thyroid hormone .
to investigate whether such adaptive change in tr expression occur in human , we determine the mrna level of the htr beta 1 in various thyroid state .
patient with overt hypo - or hyper thyroidism be enrol in the study .
total rna be isolate from peripheral blood mononuclear cell and htr beta 1 mrna level determine by quantitative competitive reverse transcription pcr .
for comparison , htr beta 1 mrna level be determine in lymphocyte and normal thyroid tissue of euthyroid patient .
human tr beta 1 mrna level in lymphocyte be 1.8 +/- 0.4 , 1.9 +/- 0.5 , 1.1 +/- 0.4 10 ( -18 ) mol/microgram rna in hypo - , eu - and hyper thyroid patient , respectively , correspond to an estimate 0.5 -2 molecule per cell .
although the mean htr beta 1 mrna level be 40 % low in hyperthyroid than in euthyroid subject , this difference do not reach statistical significance .
similar level of htr beta 1 mrna level be detect in thyroid gland from euthyroid patient .
in summary , we develop an assay for the quantitative determination of htr beta 1 mrna level in small human tissue sample , contain as little a 50 ng of total rna .
absolute htr beta 1 mrna level be very low with an estimate one molecule of mrna be present in a mononuclear blood cell or thyrocyte .
no up-regulation of htr beta 1 be see in hypothyroid relative to euthyroid patient .
however , there be a non-significant trend towards a down-regulation of htr beta 1 mrna level in hyperthyroid patient .
bcl-2 : a repressor of lymphocyte death .
the gene and mechanism that control program cell death be currently the subject of intense study .
the bcl-2 gene , a repressor of lymphocyte death , be perhaps the best understand of the program cell death associated gene .
here , stanley korsmeyer provide a brief overview of bcl-2 , concentrate on it role in b- and t- cell development and in oncogenesis .
mutually exclusive interaction of a novel matrix attachment region binding protein and the nf-munr enhancer repressor .
implication for regulation of immunoglobulin heavy chain expression .
the immunoglobulin heavy chain ( igh ) intronic enhancer stimulate transcription from functional promoter in b lymphocyte but not other cell type .
the observation that bind site for the nuclear factor-mu negative regulator ( nf-munr ) enhancer repressor overlap nuclear matrix attachment region ( mar ) in this enhancer have lead to the hypothesis that the cell type specificity of the enhancer might be control by regulate nuclear matrix attachment ( scheuermann , r. h. , and chen , u. ( 1989 ) gene & dev. 3 , 1255-1266 ) .
to understand the role of mar in igh enhancer regulation , we have identify a novel mar-binding protein , mar-bp1 , from soluble nuclear matrix preparation base on it ability to bind to the mar associate with the igh enhancer .
purify mar-bp1 migrate a a 33-kda protein , and it can be find in nuclear matrix preparation from a number of different type of lymphoid cell line .
although specific bind site have be difficult to localize by chemical or enzymatic footprinting procedure , nf-munr binding site be critical for efficient mar-bp1 binding .
indeed , binding of the igh enhancer to either intact nuclear matrix preparation or to mar-bp1 be mutually exclusive to nf-munr binding .
these result be consistent with a model for cell-type specific regulation in which binding of the nf-munr repressor to the igh enhancer prevent nuclear matrix attachment in inappropriate cell by interfere with mar-bp1 /enhancer interaction .
regulation of transcription of the human erythropoietin receptor gene by protein bind to gata-1 and sp1 motif .
erythropoietin ( epo ) , the primary regulator of the production of erythroid cell , act by bind to a cell surface receptor ( epor ) on erythroid progenitor .
we use deletion analysis and transfection assay with reporter gene construct to examine the transcription control element in the 5' flanking region of the human epor gene .
in erythroid cell most of the transcription activity be contain in a 150 bp promoter fragment with bind site for transcription factor ap2 , sp1 and the erythroid-specific gata-1 .
the 150 bp hepor promoter exhibit high and low activity in erythroid ocim1 and k562 cell , respectively , reflect the high and low level of constitutive hepor expression .
the gata-1 and sp1 binding site in this promoter lack a tata sequence be necessary for a high level of transcription activation .
protein-dna binding study suggest that sp1 and two other ccgccc binding protein from erythroid and non-erythroid cell could bind to the sp1 binding motif .
by increase gata-1 level via co-transfection , we be able to transactivate the hepor promoter in k562 cell and non-erythroid cell , but not in the highly active ocim1 cell , although gata-1 mrna level be comparable in ocim1 and k562 .
interestingly , when we mutate the sp1 site , result in a marked decrease in hepor promoter activity , we could restore transactivation by increase gata-1 level in ocim1 cell .
these data suggest that while gata-1 can transactivate the epor promoter , the level of hepor gene expression do not depend on gata-1 alone .
rather , hepor transcription activity depend on coordination between sp1 and gata-1 with other cell-specific factor , include possibly other sp1 -like binding protein , to provide high level , tissue-specific expression .
difference in binding of glucocorticoid receptor to dna in steroid-resistant asthma .
although glucocorticosteroids be a very effective treatment for asthma and other chronic inflammatory disease , a small proportion of patient be resistant to their therapeutic effect .
the molecular mechanism for this steroid resistance be unclear .
steroid resistance can not be explain by pharmacokinetic mechanism , by a defect in the binding of steroid to glucocorticoid receptor , nor by defective nuclear translocation of this receptor , thereby suggest that the molecular abnormality lie distal to nuclear translocation .
we examine the ability of nuclear translocate glucocorticoid receptor to bind to their dna binding site ( gre ) use electrophoretic mobility shift assay in pbmc from patient with steroid-sensitive and steroid-resistant asthma .
the binding of the glucocorticoid receptor to dna in these patient be also study use scatchard analysis .
dexamethasone induce a significant rapid and sustained twofold increase in gre binding in pbmcs from steroid-sensitive asthmatic patient and nonasthmatic individual , but this be markedly reduce in steroid-resistant asthmatic patient .
scatchard analysis of glucocorticoid receptor - gre binding show no change in binding affinity but do show a reduce number of receptor available for dna binding in the steroid-resistant patient .
these result suggest that the ability of the glucocorticoid receptor to bind to gre be impaired in steroid-resistant patient because of a reduce number of receptor available for bind to dna .
rhabdomyosarcoma do not contain mutation in the dna binding domain of myogenic transcription factor .
skeletal myogenesis be regulate by a group of transcription factor ( myod , myogenin , myf5 , and myf6 ) that be " basic helix-loop-helix " protein that bind to the promoter of muscle-specific gene and promote their expression .
we have previously show that after a mutation of leu122 to arg the dna binding basic domain of myod confer c-myc -like functional characteristic to the protein .
in this study we use single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis to determine whether such mutation occur naturally in rhabdomyosarcoma .
we have find that the basic domain of all the myogenic factor remain unaltered in rhabdomyosarcoma .
selection against such mutation may be the result of functional redundancy of these myogenic transcription factor .
histamine modulate the expression of c-fos through cyclic amp production via the h2 receptor in the human promonocytic cell line u937 .
we examine the effect of histamine and it agonist on the expression of the c-fos and c-myc proto-oncogene at the transcriptional and translational level in the human promonocytic u937 cell line .
histamine transiently increase camp and c-fos expression through h2 receptor .
dibutyryl camp also increase c-fos mrna and protein , and level remain elevated even after 12 hr of treatment .
dose-dependence study use histamine and dimaprit show that the ec50 value for camp production and c-fos increase be similar , suggest that camp might be involve in c-fos induction via h2 receptor .
furthermore , study carry out use h7 , a protein kinase a /protein kinase c inhibitor , block c-fos induction , whereas no effect be observe with bisindolylmaleimide , a specific protein kinase c inhibitor .
no modification of c-myc expression could be detect on treatment with histamine or it analogue .
nevertheless , dibutyryl camp induce a down-regulation of the level of this proto-oncogene .
in addition , dibutyryl camp inhibit cell growth in a dose-dependent manner , whereas histamine fail to affect proliferation and differentiation of u937 cell .
cell pretreated with dimaprit show a decrease in the camp response to subsequent addition of h2 agonist , whereas the camp response to prostaglandin e2 remain unaltered .
this homologous mechanism of h2 receptor desensitization be time dependent .
these result indicate that histamine activate several mechanism involve in the induction of differentiation , such a camp and c-fos production , but fail to promote differentiation of u937 cell , apparently due to the rapid desensitization of h2 receptor .
cell cycle analysis of e2f in primary human t cell reveal novel e2f complex and biochemically distinct form of free e2f .
the transcription factor e2f activate the expression of multiple gene involve in cell proliferation , such a c-myc and the dihydrofolate reductase gene .
regulation of e2f involve it interaction with other cellular protein , include the retinoblastoma protein ( rb ) , the rb-related protein p107 , cyclin a , and cdk2 .
we undertake a detailed analysis of e2f dna-binding activity and their cell cycle behavior in primary human t cell .
three e2f dna-binding activity be identify in rest ( g0 ) t cell with mobility in gel shift assay distinct from those of previously define e2f complex .
one of these activity be find to be a novel , less abundant , rb- e2f complex .
the most prominent e2f activity in rest t cell ( term complex x ) be abundant in both g0 and g1 but disappear a cell enter s phase , suggest a possible role in negatively regulate e2f function .
complex x could be dissociate by adenovirus e1a with a requirement for an intact e1a conserve region 2 .
however , x fail to react with a variety of antibody against rb or p107 , implicate the involvement of an e1a-binding protein other than rb or p107 .
in addition to these novel e2f complex , three distinct form of unbound ( free ) e2f be resolve in gel shift experiment .
these specie show different cell cycle kinetics .
uv cross-linking experiment suggest that a distinct e2f dna-binding protein be uniquely associate with the s-phase p107 complex and be not associate with rb .
together , these result suggest that e2f consist of multiple , biochemically distinct dna-binding protein which function at different point in the cell cycle .
characterization of interleukin-10 receptor expression on b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia cell .
b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) cell accumulate in vivo in the g0/g1 phase of the cell cycle , suggest that their malignant expansion be due , at least in part , to a delay in cell death .
however , the cellular or molecular factor responsible for a delay in b-cll cell death be unknown .
b-cll cell do express receptor for interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) and ifn-gamma , and activation of both have be show to promote b-cll survival in vitro by prevent apoptosis .
the interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) receptor be another member of the ifn receptor family , but it ligand , il-10 , have be report to induce apoptosis in b-cll cell .
in the current study , we undertake a biochemical analysis of il-10 receptor expression on freshly isolate b-cll cell and characterize the functional responsiveness of il-10 binding to it constitutively express receptor .
we show that b-cll cell bind il-10 with significant specificity and express between 47 and 127 il-10 receptor site per cell , with a dissociation constant in the range of 168 to 426 x 10(-12) mol/l .
ligand binding and activation of the il-10 receptor express on b-cll cell result in the phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription 1 ( stat1 ) and stat3 protein .
this pattern of stat protein phosphorylation be identical to il-10 receptor activation on normal cell and similar to ifn-alpha ( stat1 and stat3 ) and ifn-gamma ( stat1 ) receptor activation in cll .
far , in consecutive sample of fresh blood obtain from patient with b-cll cell , the addition of il-10 inhibit b-cll proliferation , enhance b-cll differentiation , but do not induce apoptosis .
indeed , il-10 , like ifn-gamma , be able to significantly reduce the amount of b-cll cell death cause by hydrocortisone-induced apoptosis .
we conclude that cytokine , which signal through the interferon family of receptor , have comparable functional effect on b-cll cell .
the retinoblastoma gene product negatively regulate transcriptional activation mediate by the human cytomegalovirus ie2 protein .
the ie2 gene product of human cytomegalovirus ( hcmv ) be one of a few viral regulatory protein express immediately upon infection of the host cell .
it be a potent transcriptional activator of many viral and cellular promoter .
we find that the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product ( rb ) dramatically suppress this ie2 transactivation of various promoter .
however , unlike another tumor suppressor protein , p53 , rb do not have any significant effect on basal level of transcription , suggest that rb specifically interact with ie2 rather than other cellular factor involve in the general transcription machinery .
we find by protein-affinity chromatography that rb in nuclear extract or produce by in vitro translation directly bind to ie2 .
our result suggest that rb may regulate the life cycle of hcmv , which be endemic in the human population .
furthermore , these data may provide new insight into the slow rate of hcmv dna replication in cell and the possible involvement of hcmv in tumorigenesis .
both stat3 -activation and stat3 -independent bcl2 downregulation be important for interleukin-6 -induced apoptosis of 1a9-m cell .
a unique subclone of a bone marrow-derived stromal cell line , bms2.4 , produce soluble factor that inhibit proliferation of several type of hematopoietic cell line .
an understanding of these molecule may be informative about negative regulatory circuit that can potentially limit blood cell formation .
we use expression clone to identify interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) a one factor that suppress growth of a pre-b-cell variant line , 1a9-m .
moreover , il-6 induce macrophage-differentiation and apoptosis of 1a9-m cell .
during this process , il-6 downregulated expression of bcl2 in 1a9-m cell and stimulate bcl-xl expression , but have no effect on p53 , bax , or bak gene expression .
mechanism for transduction of il-6 -induced signal be then evaluate in il-6 -stimulated 1a9-m cell .
whereas the signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( stat3 ) be phosphorylated and activate , there be no effect on either stat1 or stat5 .
the importance of bcl2 and stat3 on il-6 -induced macrophage-differentiation and apoptosis be study with 1a9-m cell express human bcl2 or a dominant-negative form of stat3 , respectively .
il-6 -induced apoptosis , but not macrophage-differentiation , be block by continuously express bcl2 .
a dominant-negative form of stat3 inhibit both macrophage-differentiation and apoptosis induce by il-6 .
however , diminish stat3 activity do not prevent il-6 -induced downregulation of the bcl2 gene .
therefore , activation of stat3 be essential for il-6 -induced macrophage-differentiation and program cell death in this model .
whereas overexpression of bcl2 abrogate the apoptotic response , stat3 -independent signal appear to downregulate expression of the bcl2 gene .
demonstration of estrogen and progesterone receptor as well a ki-67 and p-145 antigen in single tumor cell from blood and pleural effusion use a slide assay .
we describe a slide assay that allow the demonstration of antigen localized in the nucleus from isolate white blood cell as well a from single tumor cell derive from malignant effusion .
with the antibody ki-67 and anti-p-145 an increase rate of nuclear and nucleolar staining result in cell from highly malignant lymphoma .
an almost identical reaction be obtain when tumor cell from malignant effusion be test .
cell isolate from the blood of patient with leukemic spread of lymphoma of low malignancy yield a weak staining comparable to that of normal mesothelial cell from non-tumorous cavity fluid .
the detection of estrogen and progesterone receptor ( er and pr ) localized in the cell nucleus can be achieve by the same assay .
the reaction be enhance by incubation of the tumor cell for 30 min at 37 degree c prior to fixation .
pleural effusion from 20 patient with breast cancer be test .
er be positive in 13 and pr be positive in 12 of the 20 sample .
in 5 case there be a divergent reaction with er and pr antibody .
the hormone receptor of the primary tumor be know in 15 ( er ) and 14 ( pr ) patient , respectively .
in each cohort there be only one case with a negative reaction of the primary tumor and a positive reaction with the isolate tumor cell from the pleural effusion .
these result indicate that the demonstration of hormone receptor protein in cell from malignant effusion be possible and that there be a correlation with the status of the primary site of cancer .
induction of the pro-myelocytic leukaemia gene by type i and type ii interferon .
the physiological role of the pro-myelocytic leukaemia ( pml ) gene product be poorly define .
among other function , pml be involve in haematopoietic differentiation and in control of cell growth and tumorigenesis .
we investigate the regulation of human pml expression by interferon ( ifns ) and il-1 in various human haematopoietic line ( u937 , thp1 , hl60 , nb4 ) , in human diploid fibroblast and in human peripheral blood leukocyte .
cytokine-induced modulation of pml expression be assess by northern blot analysis , flow cytometry study and in situ immunolabelling .
our data show that ifns and il-1 upregulate pml transcript and protein expression in a time and dose-dependent manner .
in situ immunolabelling reveal that upregulation of protein expression by ifn-alpha be a consequence of a marked increase in both the number and the intensity of the staining of so-called pml nuclear body .
our data suggest that stimulation of pml expression by interferon and il-1 may account for upregulation of pml protein observe in inflammatory tissue and in proliferative state .
mutation of jak3 in a patient with scid : essential role of jak3 in lymphoid development .
male with x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency ( xscid ) have defect in the common cytokine receptor gamma chain ( gamma c ) gene that encode a shared , essential component of the receptor of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , il-4 , il-7 , il-9 , and il-15 .
the janus family tyrosine kinase jak3 be the only signal molecule know to be associate with gamma c , so it be hypothesize that defect in jak3 might cause an xscid -like phenotype .
a girl with immunological feature indistinguishable from those of xscid be therefore select for analysis .
an epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -transformed cell line derive from her lymphocyte have normal gamma c expression but lack jak3 protein and have greatly diminish jak3 messenger rna .
sequencing reveal a different mutation on each allele : a single nucleotide insertion result in a frame shift and premature termination in the jak3 jh4 domain and a nonsense mutation in the jak3 jh2 domain .
the lack of jak3 expression correlate with impaired b cell signaling , a demonstrate by the inability of il-4 to activate stat6 in the ebv -transformed cell line from the patient . these observation indicate that the function of gamma c be dependent on jak3 and that jak3 be essential for lymphoid development and signaling .
imbalanced expression of the glucocorticoid receptor isoforms in culture lymphocyte from a patient with systemic glucocorticoid resistance and chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
the human glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) be express a two alternatively splice isoforms , gralpha and grbeta .
whereas gralpha be a hormone-activated transcription factor , grbeta do not bind glucocorticoid ( gc ) , be transcriptionally inactive , and be a potential inhibitor of activate gralpha .
differential expression of gr isoforms may play a role in generalize or tissue-specific gc resistance .
gc induce apoptosis in neoplastic lymphoid cell ; and , defective apoptosis be implicate in the genesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) .
we study a patient with generalize gc resistance and cll .
gr number in the patient 's transform lymphocyte be approximately one half that of control cell with a approximately 10-fold reduction in binding affinity for dexamethasone .
in vitro apoptosis induction in cll cell be delay in response to gc , but not to other apoptosis inducer .
sequencing of the gr cdna and gene include the 2.3-kb coding region , the intron/exon junction , the known 5'-regulatory region , and approximately 300 bp of the 3'-region reveal no alteration .
western blot with an n-terminal antibody show normal level of immunoreactive gr , but quantitative analysis with isoform-specific c-terminal antibody reveal a markedly reduce gralpha expression , and high grbeta expression .
these finding indicate that imbalanced expression of the gr isoforms may be a mechanism of gc resistance , and may have implication for tumorigenesis by enhance cell survival .
copyright 1999 academic press .
estrogen binding site in peripheral blood monocyte and effect of danazol on their site in vitro .
1 .
this study be design to investigate the presence of estrogen type i ( high affinity , low capacity ) and type ii ( low affinity , high capacity ) binding site in human peripheral blood monocyte and the effect of danazol on these site .
2 .
these two type of estrogen binding site exist in human peripheral blood monocyte .
3 .
danazol bind to these site in high concentration ( 10 ( -6 ) m , clinical serum concentration during danazol therapy ) and decrease the number of both site .
4 .
it be suggest that danazol have an anti-estrogenic action to the monocyte through the competition and suppression of estrogen binding site a see in the estrogen target organ .
use of new biologic marker in the ovulation induction .
biological marker of ovulation , after a great in the past , have be fall into disuse for the large diffusion of biochemical and biophysical one .
however , the real effect of hormone involve in ovulation be express by biological modification on target tissue .
to explore the modification of not reproductive target tissue a ovulation marker we study the behaviour of albuminemia , platelet factor iv ( a indicator of platelet aggregation ) , type ii estrogenic receptor in 42 ovulation induced woman , undergo our observation .
33 of them have ovulation and 9 develop a luf syndrome , constitute two biological model of an opposite situation for the three marker observe .
all the marker consider be sufficiently sensitive , but among them , platelet factor iv be the most reliable to the hormonal ovulatory situation .
triggering of the human interleukin-6 gene by interferon-gamma and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in monocytic cell involve cooperation between interferon regulatory factor-1 , nf kappa b , and sp1 transcription factor .
we investigate the molecular basis of the synergistic induction by interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) / tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) of human interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) gene in thp-1 monocytic cell , and compare it with the basis of this induction by lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
functional study with il-6 promoter demonstrate that three region be the target of the ifn-gamma and/or tnf-alpha action , whereas only one of these region seem to be implicate in lp activation .
the three region concern be : 1 ) a region between -73 and -36 , which be the minimal element inducible by lp or tnf-alpha ; 2 ) an element located between -181 and -73 , which appear to regulate the response to ifn-gamma and tnf-alpha negatively ; and 3 ) a distal element upstream of -224 , which be inducible by ifn-gamma alone .
lp signaling be find to involve nf kappa b activation by the p50 /p65 heterodimers .
synergistic induction of the il-6 gene by ifn-gamma and tnf-alpha , in monocytic cell , involve cooperation between the irf-1 and nf kappa b p65 homodimers with concomitant removal of the negative effect of the retinoblastoma control element present in the il-6 promoter .
this removal occur by activation of the constitutive sp1 factor , whose increase binding activity and phosphorylation be mediate by ifn-gamma .
sp1 be a critical factor for the monocytic specific expression of human cd14 .
cd14 be a membrane glycoprotein express specifically on monocyte and macrophage , and it expression be markedly increase during the process of monocyte differentiation .
in order to study cd14 gene regulation , the human cd14 gene be clone from a partial ecori digested chromosome 5 library .
a 5.5-kilobase genomic clone contain the full-length cd14 coding sequence and 4.2 kilobases of 5'-upstream sequence .
one major and one minor transcription start site be identify 101 and 130 base pair ( bp ) upstream , respectively , from the protein translation start atg .
a dna fragment contain 128 bp of upstream sequence have strong , monocyte-specific promoter activity in the cd14 positive monocytic cell line mono mac 6 a compare to the nonmonocytic cell line hela and rex .
four region in this dna fragment interact with nuclear protein isolate from monocytic cell .
the sp1 transcription factor bind to three different region in the cd14 promoter .
mutation of the major sp1 binding site ( -110 bp ) decrease tissue-specific promoter activity , and these result , together with transactivation experiment , demonstrate that sp1 play a critical role in the tissue-specific expression of cd14 in monocytic cell .
cd14 sp1 site oligonucleotides bind preferentially to a 105-kda sp1 specie , which be present in high relative level in monocytic than non-monocytic cell , suggest that modification of sp1 , such a phosphorylation , may explain how the sp1 site mediate monocytic specific promoter activity .
multiple protein interact with the nuclear inhibitory protein repressor element in the human interleukin-3 promoter .
t cell expression of interleukin 3 ( il-3 ) be direct by positive and negative cis-acting dna element clustered within 300 base pair of the transcriptional start site .
a strong repressor element , term nuclear inhibitory protein ( nip ) , be previously map to a segment of the il-3 promoter between nucleotide -271 and -250 .
functional characterization of this element demonstrate that it can mediate repression when link in ci to a heterologous promoter .
dna binding experiment be carry out to characterize the repressor activity .
use varying condition , three distinct complex be show to interact specifically with the nip region , although only one correlate with repressor activity .
complex 1 result from binding of a ubiquitous polypeptide that recognize the 3' portion of this sequence and be not require for repression .
complex 2 correspond to binding of transcription factor ( upstream stimulatory factor ) to an e-box motif in the 5' portion of the nip region .
dna binding specificity of complex 3 overlap with that of upstream stimulatory factor but be clearly distinct .
to determine which of the latter two complex represent nip activity , we incorporate small alteration into the nip site of an il-3 promoter -linked reporter construct and examine their effect on nip -mediated repression .
functional specificity for repression match the dna binding specificity of complex 3 ; both repressor activity and complex 3 binding require the consensus sequence ctcacntnc .
comparison of constitutive and inducible transcriptional enhancement mediate by kappa b-related sequence : modulation of activity in b cell by human t-cell leukemia virus type i tax gene .
the kappa b sequence ( gggactttcc ) bind a factor , nf-kappa b , that be constitutively find in it functional , dna binding form only in b lymphocyte .
a factor with apparently indistinguishable sequence specificity can be induce in many other cell type , where it be use to regulate inducible gene expression .
for example , kappa b-related sequence have be show to be important for the transcription of a few inducible gene , such a the interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain gene and the beta-interferon gene .
however , these gene be not constitutively active in b lymphocyte , suggest that other regulatory mechanism must play a role in determine the pattern of expression .
we have investigate the constitutive and inducible transcriptional activity mediate by five kappa b-related sequence element in two different cell type .
we show that in s194 plasma cell the activity of each element correlate well with the relative affinity of b-cell-derived nf-kappa b for that element .
this lead to significantly lower transcription enhancement by site derive from the interleukin 2 receptor or t-cell receptor gene in s194 cell .
however , in either el-4 ( t ) cell or s194 cell , both lower-affinity site can be significantly induce by the tax gene product of human t-cell leukemia virus type i , show that nf-kappa b activity can be modulate even in a b-cell line that constitutively express this factor .
a protein of the ap-1 family be a component of nuclear factor of activate t cell .
nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) be a transcriptional activator involve in the induction of il-2 gene expression .
the response element for nf-at be a sequence localized between -285/-254 in the il-2 regulatory region .
the composition of nf-at protein be still not fully elucidate .
we demonstrate that , in normal human t cell , an ap-1 protein be a component of the nf-at protein complex .
this be evidence by the ability of the ap-1 site to compete with the nf-at site for binding to nf-at and by the capacity of immobilize anti- jun and anti- fos antibody to deplete nf-at -binding activity from nuclear extract of activate t cell .
there be no detectable binding of in vitro translate jun /fos heterodimer ( ap-1 ) to the nf-at sequence , and the nf-at sequence be unable to inhibit the binding of jun /fos to the ap-1 sequence .
the presence of an ap-1 protein in the nf-at protein complex may regulate nf-at -binding activity through protein-protein interaction .
cd27 /cd70 interaction augment ige secretion by promote the differentiation of memory b cell into plasma cell .
the induction of ige switching in b cell require several signal give by cytokine and cell contact-delivered signal .
here , we investigate the role of cd27 /cd70 interaction in b cell ige synthesis .
the addition of cd27 ligand ( cd70 ) transfectants to b cell culture increase the ige synthesis synergistically in the presence of il-4 plus anti-cd40 mab ( anti-cd40 ) .
the effect of cd70 transfectants be dose dependent and be completely block by anti-cd70 mab .
cd27+ b cell have the ability to produce ige , which be increase by contact with cd70 transfectants , whereas cd27-_b cell do not produce ige .
cd27 /cd70 interaction enhance b cell proliferation in the presence of il-4 or il-4 plus anti-cd40 .
the augmentation of b cell proliferation by cd70 transfectants be apparent in cd27+ b cell , but be mild in cd27-_b cell .
the helper activity for ige synthesis by the cd27 /cd70 interaction do not contribute to the enhancement of germline epsilon transcript .
flow cytometric and morphological analysis demonstrate that the addition of cd70 transfectants to b cell culture remarkably promote differentiation into plasma cell in the presence of il-4 and cd40 signaling .
finally , cd27 cross-linking result in the up-regulation of positive regulatory domain i-binding factor-1 .
take together , our finding indicate that signaling via cd27 on b cell induce ige synthesis , in cooperation with il-4 and cd40 signaling , by promote the generation of plasma cell through up-regulation of positive regulatory domain i-binding factor-1 .
glucocorticoid -induced apoptosis and regulation of nf-kappab activity in human leukemic t cell .
glucocorticoid -induced apoptosis be investigate in glucocorticoid-sensitive 6tg1.1 and resistant icr27tk.3 human leukemic t cell .
follow glucocorticoid treatment of 6tg1.1 cell , chromatin fragmentation be observe after a delay of 24 h .
fragmentation be not observe in icr27tk.3 cell contain mutant glucocorticoid receptor ( l753f ) that be activation-deficient but retain the ability to repress ap-1 activity .
nor be fragmentation observe after treatment with ru38486 , indicate that repression of ap-1 activity be not involve .
a describe in other system , fragmentation require ongoing protein synthesis .
however , inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide anytime during the first 18 h of steroid treatment be a effective in block chromatin fragmentation a inhibition for the entire period , suggest that synthesis of a component with a rapid turnover rate be require .
dexamethasone treatment completely block 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate induction of nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) activity and elicit an increase in the amount of immunoreactive ikappab alpha in sensitive 6tg1.1 cell but not in resistant icr27tk.3 cell .
in addition , mild detergent treatment of cell extract indicate that a substantial amount of cytoplasmic nf-kappab be complexed with ikappab alpha or some other inhibitory factor . these result suggest that induction of a labile inhibitory factor such a ikappab alpha may contribute to glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis .
coexpression of nf-kappa b /rel and sp1 transcription factor in human immunodeficiency virus 1 -induced , dendritic cell-t-cell syncytium .
productive infection of t cell with human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) typically require that the t cell be stimulate with antigen or mitogen .
this requirement have be attribute to the activation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b , which synergizes with the constitutive transcription factor sp1 to drive the hiv-1 promoter .
recently , we have find that vigorous replication of hiv-1 take place in nonactivated memory t cell after syncytium formation with dendritic cell ( dc ) .
these syncytium lack activate cell a determine by an absence of stain for ki-67 cell cycle antigen .
the expression and activity of nf-kappa b and sp1 be , therefore , analyze in isolate t cell and dc from human and mouse .
we have use immunolabeling , western blot analysis , and electrophoretic mobility shift and supershift assay .
t cell lack active nf-kappa b but express sp1 a expect .
dc express high level of all known nf-kappa b and rel protein , with activity reside primarily within relb , p50 , and p65 .
however , dc lack sp1 , which may explain the failure of hiv-1 to replicate in purify dc .
coexpression of nf-kappa b and sp1 occur in the heterologous dc-t-cell syncytium that be induce by hiv-1 .
therefore , hiv-1 -induced cell fusion bring together factor that upregulate virus transcription .
since dc and memory t cell frequently traffic together in situ , these unusual heterologous syncytium could develop in infected individual and lead to chronic hiv-1 replication without ostensible immune stimulation .
isolation and characterization of gelatinase granule from human neutrophil .
we recently confirm the existence of gelatinase granule a a subpopulation of peroxidase-negative granule by double-labeling immunogold electron microscopy on intact cell and by subcellular fractionation .
further characterization of gelatinase granule have be hamper by poor separation of specific and gelatinase granule on both two-layer percoll gradient and sucrose gradient .
we have develop a three-layer percoll density gradient that allow separation of the different granule and vesicle from human neutrophil ; in particular , it allow separation of specific and gelatinase granule .
this allow u to characterize these two granule population with regard to their content of membrane protein , which become incorporate into the plasma membrane during exocytosis .
we find that gelatinase granule , define a peroxidase-negative granule contain gelatinase but lack lactoferrin , contain 50 % of total cell gelatinase , with the remain residing in specific granule .
furthermore , we find that 20 % to 25 % of both the adhesion protein mac-1 and the nadph-oxidase component cytochrome b558 be localized in gelatinase granule .
although no qualitative difference be observe between specific granule and gelatinase granule with respect to cytochrome b558 and mac-1 , stimulation of the neutrophil with fmlp result in a selective mobilization of the least dense peroxidase-negative granule , ie , gelatinase granule , which , in concert with secretory vesicle , furnish the plasma membrane with mac-1 and cytochrome b558 .
this show that gelatinase granule be functionally important relative to specific granule in mediate early inflammatory response .
activation of nuclear factor kappa b in human lymphoblastoid cell by low-dose ionize radiation .
nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be a pleiotropic transcription factor which be involve in the transcriptional regulation of several specific gene .
recent report demonstrate that ionize radiation in the dose range of 2-50 gy result in expression of nf-kappa b in human kg-1 myeloid leukemia cell and human b-lymphocyte precursor cell ; the precise mechanism involve and the significance be not yet know .
the present report demonstrate that even low dos of ionize radiation , 0.25-2.0 gy , be capable of induce expression of nf-kappa b in ebv-transformed 244b human lymphoblastoid cell .
these result be in a dose range where the viability of the cell remain very high .
after exposure to 137cs gamma ray at a dose rate of 1.17 gy/min , a maximum in expression of nf-kappa b be see at 8 h after a 0.5-gy exposure .
time-course study reveal a biphasic time-dependent expression after 0.5- , 1- and 2-gy exposure .
however , for each time examine , the expression of nf-kappa b be maximum after the 0.5-gy exposure .
the expression of the p50 and p65 nf-kappa b subunit be also show to be regulate differentially after exposure to 1.0 and 2.0 gy .
regulation of id3 cell cycle function by cdk-2-dependent phosphorylation .
the function of basic helix-loop-helix ( bhlh ) transcription factor in activate differentiation-linked gene expression and in induce g1 cell cycle arrest be negatively regulate by member of the id family of hlh protein .
these bhlh antagonist be induce during a mitogenic signalling response , and they function by sequester their bhlh target in inactive heterodimers that be unable to bind to specific gene regulatory ( e box ) sequence .
recently , cyclin e-cdk2- and cyclin a-cdk2- dependent phosphorylation of a single conserve serine residue ( ser5 ) in id2 have be show to occur during late g1-to-s phase transition of the cell cycle , and this neutralize the function of id2 in abrogate e-box-dependent bhlh homo - or hetero dimer complex formation in vitro ( e.hara , m.hall , and g.peters , embo j.16 : 332-342 , 1997 ) .
we now show that an analogous cell-cycle-regulated phosphorylation of id3 alter the specificity of id3 for abrogate both e-box-dependent bhlh homo- or heterodimer complex formation in vitro and e-box-dependent reporter gene function in vivo .
furthermore , compare with wild-type id3 , an id3 asp5 mutant ( mimic phosphorylation ) be unable to promote cell cycle s phase entry in transfected fibroblast , whereas an id3 ala5 mutant ( ablate phosphorylation ) display an activity significantly great than that of wild-type id3 protein .
cdk2-dependent phosphorylation therefore provide a switch during late g1-to-s phase that both nullify an early g1 cell cycle regulatory function of id3 and modulate it target bhlh specificity .
these data also demonstrate that the ability of id3 to promote cell cycle s phase entry be not simply a function of it ability to modulate bhlh heterodimer-dependent gene expression and establish a biologically important mechanism through which cdk2 and id-bhlh function be integrate in the coordination of cell proliferation and differentiation .
induction of nf-kappa b during monocyte differentiation be associate with activation of hiv -gene expression .
cell of the monocyte-macrophage lineage be important target of hiv infection .
we report here that the phenotypic differentiation of monocyte cell line induce by phorbol ester or tumour necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) be associate with expression of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) .
in parallel with such differentiation , hiv transcription , monitor use an hiv long terminal repeat reporter gene construct , be activate in such cell under the influence of enhance nf-kappa b expression .
also , in a promonocyte cell line chronically infect with hiv , nf-kappa b expression and hiv transcription be enhance on stimulation with phorbol ester or tnf alpha .
thus , stimulation of monocyte cell line by phorbol ester or tnf alpha induce cell differentiation and activate hiv transcription .
such a process may have fundamental implication in aid pathogenesis in vivo and may be important in disease progression induce by opportunistic infection directly or indirectly involve macrophage .
the lymphotoxin promoter be stimulate by htlv-i tax activation of nf-kappa b in human t-cell line .
the htlv-i transcriptional activator tax be use to gain insight into the mechanism of lymphotoxin ( lt ; tnf-beta ) gene induction .
tax-expressing cell line produce lt biologic activity .
an lt promoter ( lt-293 ) cat construct that contain an nf-kappa b site be active in the lt-producing c81-66-45 cell line , which contain defective htlv-i but express tax .
the observation that a mutate lt-kappa b construct ( m1-cat ) be inactive in c81-66-45 , confirm the importance of nf-kappa b in lt gene expression .
tax be transfected into htlv-i-negative human t-cell line .
jurkat t cell stably express tax contain elevated level of nf-kappa b that directly bind to the lt-kappa b site .
tax co-transfected with reporter construct into jurkat cell maximally activate htlv-i-ltr-cat and kappa b-fos-cat and also activate lt-293 to a less extent .
in jm t cell , tax induced lt-293 activity by two- to four-fold , though there be no induction of m1-cat .
the increase in lt-293 cat activity mirror the increase in lt biologic activity see under these condition .
these study , the first to demonstrate induction of lt promoter activity over basal level , indicate that htlv-i tax cause low-level activation of both endogenous lt and the lt promoter , at least in part through activation of nf-kappa b .
cytomegalovirus modulate interleukin-6 gene expression .
complication after lung transplantation include the development of rejection and an increase incidence of infection , particularly with cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) .
several recent study have suggest that interleukin ( il ) -6 may be use to detect both infection and rejection after lung transplantation .
in addition , il-6 may play a role in the development of bronchiolitis obliterans after transplantation .
because cmv be also associate with the development of bronchiolitis obliterans after transplantation , we determine whether cmv induce il-6 gene expression .
we demonstrate that cmv infection increase both il-6 protein and mrna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
we also demonstrate that the cmv immediate early 1 gene product increase expression of the il-6 promoter .
this effect of the cmv immediate early 1 gene product be dependent upon the presence of specific transcription factor binding site in the il-6 promoter .
these study demonstrate that cmv may be an important cofactor in the development of rejection and infection after transplantation through it effect on il-6 .
human herpesvirus 6 variant a , but not variant b , infect ebv -positive b lymphoid cell , activate the latent ebv genome through a bzlf-1 -dependent mechanism .
human herpesvirus 6 , a predominantly t lymphotropic virus , have be recently show to infect some ebv -positive b cell line , and to induce in them the activation of the ebv lytic cycle .
here we have confirm and extend such observation , show that ( 1 ) this phenomenon be restricted to the variant a of hhv-6 : in fact two isolates belong to the hhv-6 variant b ( ba92 and z29 ) be neither able to infect any b cell line , independently of the ebv status , nor to induce the ebv genome expression .
the only exception be represent by the p3hr1 cell , in which , however , the infection by the variant b do not determine induction of ebv antigen ; ( 2 ) the presence of the ebv genome contribute to the susceptibility of the b cell line to hhv-6 infection , increase the bind site and the percentage of infectable cell , a detect by immunoelectron microscopy ; and ( 3 ) hhv-6 infected t cell , transfected with plasmid bear the promoter region of the ebv early gene bzlf1 and bmrf1 , show a strong transactivation of these promoter .
calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii downregulates both calcineurin and protein kinase c -mediated pathway for cytokine gene transcription in human t cell .
engagement of the t cell receptor for antigen activate phospholipase c result in an increase in intracellular free calcium concentration ( [ ca2+ ]i ) and activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) .
increase [ ca2+ ]i activate ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent kinase include the multifunctional ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii ( cam-k ii ) , as well a calcineurin , a type 2b protein phosphatase .
recent study have identify calcineurin a a key enzyme for interleukin ( il ) -2 and il-4 promoter activation .
however , the role of cam-k ii remain unknown .
we have use mutant of these kinase and phosphatase ( gamma b*cam-k and delta cam-ai , respectively ) to explore their relative role in cytokine gene transcription and their interaction with pkc -dependent signaling system .
gamma b*cam-k and delta cam-ai , know to exhibit constitutive ca(2+)-independent activity , be cotransfected ( alone or in combination ) in jurkat t cell with a plasmid contain the intact il-2 promoter drive the expression of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene .
cotransfection of gamma b*cam-k with the il-2 promoter construct downregulated it transcription in response to stimulation with ionomycin and phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) .
the inhibitory effect of cam-k ii on il-2 promoter be associate with decrease transcription of it ap-1 and nf-at transactivating pathway .
under the same condition , delta cam-ai superinduced il-2 promoter activity ( approximately twofold increase ) .
when both mutant be use in combination , gamma b*cam-k inhibit the induction of the il-2 promoter by delta cam-ai .
similar result be obtain when a construct contain the il-4 promoter also be use .
gamma b*cam-k also downregulated the activation of ap-1 in response to transfection with a constitutively active mutant of pkc or stimulation with pma .
these result suggest that cam-k ii may exert negative influence on cytokine gene transcription in human t cell , and provide preliminary evidence for negative cross-talk with the calcineurin- and pkc- dependent signaling system .
involvement of alu sequence in the cell-specific regulation of transcription of the gamma chain of fc and t cell receptor .
the fc epsilon ri-gamma chain be express in a variety of hematopoietic cell where they play a critical role in signal transduction .
they be part of the high affinity ige receptor in mast cell , basophil , langerhans cell , and possibly other cell ; a component of the low affinity receptor for igg ( fc gamma riiia or cd16 ) in natural killer cell and macrophage ; and part of the t cell antigen receptor in subset of t cell .
here we have investigate the transcriptional regulation of the gamma chain gene by analyze the 2.5-kilobase sequence upstream of the transcription start site .
this sequence contain a promoter specific to cell of hematopoietic lineage .
however , the tissue specificity of this promoter be only partial because it be active in all of the hematopoietic cell test here , regardless of whether they constitutively express fc epsilon ri- gamma chain transcript .
we have identify two adjacent cis-acting regulatory element , both of which be part of an alu repeat .
the first ( -445/-366 ) be a positive element active in both basophil and t cell .
the second ( -365/-264 ) bind to nuclear factor , which appear to be different in basophil and t cell , and act a a negative element in basophil and a a positive one in t cell .
thus , this alu repeat ( 90 % identical to alu consensus sequence ) have evolve to become both a positive and negative regulator .
effect of environmental estrogen on il-1beta promoter activity in a macrophage cell line .
environmental estrogen or estrogen disrupters have recently receive a great deal of attention because of their potential health impact on reproductive tissue .
few , if any , study have be make on the impact of these compound on the immune system .
we seek to determine the activity of various environmental estrogen on the modulation of the interleukin-1beta ( il-1beta ) gene in a model monocytic cell line , her + il-1beta -cat+ .
this cell line stably transfected with the human estrogen receptor , and an il-1beta promoter construct fuse to the cat reporter gene allow u to monitor the effect of estrogenic compound on il-1beta promoter activity .
17beta-estradiol ( e2 ) markedly enhance lipopolysaccharide - ( lp ) induced il-1beta promoter -driven cat activity in a dose-dependent manner .
the mycotoxin alpha-zearalenol and zearalenone both exhibit full agonist activity , but at low potency , with ec50 value of 1.8 and 54 nm , respectively , compare with e2 at 0.5 nm .
in addition , genistein be a very low-potency agonist , have an ec50 of 1.5 microm .
similar to the e2 response , the slope factor for alpha-zearalenol , zearalenone , and genistein be close to 3.0 , suggest positive cooperativity in the estrogenic response .
the activity of the mycotoxin appear to be mediate through the estrogen receptor , since both the antiestrogens h1285 and ici 182 , 780 effectively inhibit their agonist activity in a dose-dependent manner .
representative environmental estrogenic compound both from plant and industrial source be also test .
unlike the mycoestrogens , none of the compound , with the exception of genistein , synergized with lp to enhance il-1beta promoter activity .
when test for antiestrogenic activity , the industrial compound 4-octylphenol be able to antagonize the response to e2 ; however , the response be three order of magnitude less potent than h 1285 .
naringenin , a plant flavonoid , show little or no ability to antagonize the response to e2 .
overall , the result show that some environmental estrogen that display agonist activity in reproductive tissue also have an effect on il-1 gene expression in hemopoietic-derived tissue .
glucocorticoid receptor , fibromyalgia and low back pain .
recently , fibromyalgia ( fm ) be show to be a disorder associate with an altered functioning of the stress response system .
fm patient display a hyperreactive pituitary adrenocorticotropic hormone ( acth ) release in response to corticotropin-releasing hormone ( crh ) and to insulin-induced hypoglycemia .
we suggest that negative feedback of cortisol could be derange .
therefore we investigate the property and function of the glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) in fm patient and compare the result with those of healthy person and patient with chronic low back pain ( lbp a localized pain condition ) .
forty primary fm patient ( f : m = 36 : 4 ) , 28 lbp patient ( 25 : 3 ) and 14 ( 12 : 2 ) healthy , sedentary control person be recruit for the study .
urinary free cortisol excretion in fm and lbp patient be low compare to control .
only fm patient display low cbg and basal serum cortisol concentration when compare to control .
however , plasma free cortisol concentration be similar in the three group .
there be no difference in the number of gr per cell among the three group ( fm : 6498 +/- 252 , lbp : 6625 +/- 284 , control : 6576 +/- 304 ) , but the dissociation constant ( kd ) of the fm ( 14.5 +/- 0.9 nmol/l ) and lbp ( 14.7 +/- 1.3 nmol/l ) subject be significantly high than that of the control ( 10.9 +/- 0.8 nmol/l ) ( p < .05 ) .
the maximal stimulation of the lymphocyte , a measure by the maximal thymidine incorporation ( in the absence of cortisol ) in the fm group be approximately 1.5 time high ( p < .05 ) than in the control or lbp group .
the ed50 ( the cortisol concentration give 50 % inhibition of the thymidine incorporation ) , however , be identical in all three group .
we conclude that fm patient have a mild hypocortisolemia , increase cortisol feedback resistance in combination probably with a reduce crh synthesis or release in the hypothalamus .
the role of the gr and mineralocorticoid receptor ( mr ) in the crh regulation in the fm patient remain to be solve .
the sp1 transcription factor bind the cd11b promoter specifically in myeloid cell in vivo and be essential for myeloid-specific promoter activity .
the myeloid integrin cd11b be express selectively on the surface of mature macrophage , monocyte , neutrophil , and natural killer cell .
lineage-specific expression be control at the level of mrna transcription .
recent isolation of the cd11b promoter show that 92 base pair ( bp ) of 5'-flanking dna be sufficient to direct myeloid-specific expression of a reporter gene .
to characterize regulatory sequence important for promoter activity , we perform linker scanning analysis of the 92-bp cd11b promoter and demonstrate that a sequence at bp -60 be essential for cd11b promoter activity .
we show that this sequence bind the transcription factor sp1 in vitro and in vivo .
in vivo the sp1 site be bind only in myeloid ( u937 ) cell , not in cervical carcinoma ( hela ) cell .
in addition , the macrophage transcription factor pu.1 bind the cd11b promoter in vitro and in vivo close to the sp1 site .
we propose a model in which binding of a myeloid-specific factor ( pu.1 ) allow a general factor ( sp1 ) to bind in a tissue-specific fashion thereby contribute to the myeloid-specific expression of cd11b .
calcitriol : a hematolymphopoietrope ? [ editorial ]
a medline search of the english-language literature be conduct use the indexing term ' immunology , calcitriol and vitamin d ' to identify study indicate a role for calcitriol a a primary immunomodulator .
sixty-six paper publish between january 1956 and june 1991 be identify .
forty-five of these report be cite in this review .
the data strongly suggest an endocrine , autocrine and/or paracrine role for calcitriol in immune regulation .
no unifying hypothesis have yet emerge explain this collection of data .
this paper provide a brief review of immune property currently attribute to calcitriol .
sp1 function in a chromatin -dependent manner to augment human alpha-globin promoter activity .
the 5' flanking region of the human alpha-globin gene be highly g_+_c rich and contain multiple copy of the consensus sequence for the sp1 binding site .
we investigate the role of this g_+_c-rich region in augment alpha-globin promoter activity in the presence of the far-upstream alpha-globin enhancer , hs-40 .
we show that in transiently transfected erythroid cell , deletion of the alpha-globin g_+_c-rich 5' flanking region have no effect on alpha-globin promoter activity .
however , upon stable integration into chromatin , deletion of this region cause a nearly 90 % decrease in promoter activity compare with expression from an alpha-globin promoter retain this region .
these result suggest that the alpha-globin g_+_c-rich 5' flanking region augment alpha-globin promoter activity in a chromatin -dependent manner .
we far show that this g_+_c-rich region be require for the activation of alpha-globin gene expression during erythroid differentiation .
finally , we show by both footprint analysis and functional assay that the ability of the g_+_c-rich region to increase alpha-globin promoter activity from a stably integrate alpha-globin gene be mediate by it multiple bind site for the transcription factor sp1 .
dehydroepiandrosterone modulation of lipopolysaccharide -stimulated monocyte cytotoxicity .
dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) , the predominant androgen secrete by the adrenal cortex , can be convert to both potent androgen and estrogen .
in addition to it role a a precursor for other steroid hormone , dhea have be propose to play an important role in immunity .
this study have investigate dhea modulation of lp -induced monocyte cytotoxicity .
cytotoxicity marker assess include tumor cell killing , il-1 secretion , reactive oxygen intermediate release , nitric oxide synthetase activity a measure by the release of reactive nitrogen intermediate , complement receptor-1 cell surface protein , and tnf-alpha protein presence .
monocyte stimulate with lp concentration of 1.0 micrograms/ml display the above cytotoxic marker , whereas monocyte stimulate with dhea alone or with lp at a low concentration of 0.2 ng/ml do not .
however , when use simultaneously , dhea and lp 0.2 ng/ml display a synergistic effect on monocyte cytotoxicity against cancerous cell line , il-1 secretion , reactive nitrogen intermediate release , complement receptor-1 cell-surface protein , and tnf-alpha protein to level comparable with level obtain use lp 1.0 microgram/ml .
finally , scatchard plot analysis demonstrate the presence of a dhea receptor in monocyte , suggest that dhea effect on lp -stimulated monocyte be mediate through a receptor-dependent process .
human tafii 105 be a cell type-specific tfiid subunit related to htafii130 .
we previously characterize drosophila and human taf subunit that make up the core tfiid complex find in all cell .
here , we report that differentiate b cell contain a novel substoichiometric taf of 105 kda not find associate with tfiid isolate from other cell type .
the cdna encoding htafii105 reveal a highly conserve c-terminal domain share by htafii130 and otafii110 , while the n-terminal coactivator domain have diverge significantly .
all cell test express tafii105 mrna , but only b cell contain significant level of protein associate with tfiid .
transient overexpression of htafii105 selectively squelch the transcription of some gene in b cell .
these property suggest that tafii105 be a cell type-specific subunit of tfiid that may be responsible for mediate transcription by a subset of activator in b cell .
functional characterization of novel il-2 transcriptional inhibitor .
il-2 -mediated t cell proliferation be a critical early event in the inflammatory process .
formation of the nfat -1 transcriptional complex on the il-2 promoter be essential for il-2 transcription .
use a cell line that be stably transfected with a trimer of the nfat -1 regulatory element link to a lac-z reporter gene , we screen for inhibitor of nfat -1-mediated beta-galactosidase activity .
win 61058 and win 53071 be identify a microm inhibitor .
these compound also inhibit beta-galactosidase mrna level .
similar inhibition of nfat -1-mediated gene expression be observe in a second cell line , which be stably transfected with nfat -1 regulatory element link to the reporter gene for scd8 .
at 10 microm , both compound inhibit il-2 mrna and protein level in the nfat -1-linked lac-z transfectants , and in human lymphocyte .
both compound inhibit the mixed lymphocyte reaction , and this inhibition be reverse by exogenous il-2 .
win 53071 inhibit il-2 production induce in the calcium-dependent pma and ionomycin pathway .
conversely , calcium-independent anti-cd28 ab and pma-induced il-2 production be resistant .
both compound alter the nfat -1 transcriptional complex , cause it retard mobility on gel .
by these functional criterion , we believe we have identify two structurally distinct , novel inhibitor of nfat -1-mediated transcription .
htlv-1 tax induce expression of various immediate early serum responsive gene .
human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) be an etiological agent of adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) .
we show here by mobility-shift assay that t-cell line transform with the virus contain high level of ap-1 activity .
consistent with this result , these cell line express increase level of mrna encode the ap-1 protein , c-fos , fra-1 , c-jun , junb , and jund .
previously , transcription of the c-fos gene have be report to be transactivated by the viral transcription factor , tax1 .
by use the human t-cell line ( jpx-9 ) , in which expression of the tax1 be inducible , we show that expression of mrna for fra-1 , c-jun , and jund be also transactivated by tax1 .
moreover , tax1 activate expression of two other transcription factor have zinc finger motif , egr-1 and egr-2 , in the same cell .
the tax1 -inducible transcription factor identify here be encode by the member of immediate early gene under the control of growth signal .
thus , tax1 be suggest to replace growth signal , at least in part , by this mechanism .
macrophage in human atheroma contain ppargamma : differentiation-dependent peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( ppargamma ) expression and reduction of mmp-9 activity through ppargamma activation in mononuclear phagocyte in vitro .
mononuclear phagocyte play an important role in atherosclerosis and it sequela plaque rupture in part by their secretion of matrix metalloproteinases ( mmps ) , include mmp-9 .
peroxisomal proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( ppargamma ) , a transcription factor in the nuclear receptor superfamily , regulate gene expression in response to various activator , include 15-deoxy-delta12,14-prostaglandin j2 and the antidiabetic agent troglitazone .
the role of ppargamma in human atherosclerosis be unexplored .
we report here that monocytes/macrophages in human atherosclerotic lesion ( n = 12 ) express immunostainable ppargamma .
normal artery specimen ( n = 6 ) reveal minimal immunoreactive ppargamma .
human monocyte and monocyte-derived macrophage culture for 6 day in 5 % human serum express ppargamma mrna and protein by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting , respectively .
in addition , ppargamma mrna expression in u937 cell increase during phorbol 12-myristate 13 acetate -induced differentiation .
stimulation of ppargamma with troglitazone or 15-deoxy-delta12,14-prostaglandin j2 in human monocyte-derived macrophage inhibit mmp-9 gelatinolytic activity in a concentration-dependent fashion a reveal by zymography .
this inhibition correlate with decrease mmp-9 secretion a determine by western blotting .
thus , ppargamma be present in macrophage in human atherosclerotic lesion and may regulate expression and activity of mmp-9 , an enzyme implicate in plaque rupture .
ppargamma be likely to be an important regulator of monocyte/macrophage function with relevance for human atherosclerotic disease .
interdomain b in zap-70 regulate but be not require for zap-70 signaling function in lymphocyte .
the protein tyrosine kinase zap-70 play an important role in t-cell activation and development .
after t-cell receptor stimulation , zap-70 associate with the receptor and be phosphorylated on many tyrosine , include y292 , y315 , and y319 within interdomain b .
previously , we demonstrate that y292 negatively regulate zap-70 function and that y315 positively regulate zap-70 function by interact with vav .
recent study have suggest that y319 also positively regulate zap-70 function .
paradoxically , removal of interdomain b ( to create the construct designate delta ) , contain the y292 , y315 , and y319 site , do not eliminate the ability of zap-70 to induce multiple gene reporter in syk-deficient dt-40 b cell and zap-70 /syk-deficient jurkat cell .
here we show that delta still utilize the same pathway a wild-type zap-70 to mediate nf-at induction .
this be manifest by the ability of delta to restore induction of calcium flux and mitogen-activated protein kinase activation and by the ability of dominant negative ra and fk506 to block the induction of nf-at activity mediate by delta .
biochemically we show that the stimulate tyrosine phosphorylation of vav , shc , and zap-70 itself be diminish , whereas that of slp-76 be increase in cell reconstitute with delta .
deletion of interdomain b do not affect the ability of zap-70 to bind to the receptor .
the in vitro kinase activity of zap-70 lack interdomain b be markedly reduce , but the kinase activity be still require for the protein 's in vivo activity .
base on these data , we conclude that interdomain b regulate but be not require for zap-70 signaling function lead to cellular response .
il4 and il13 receptor share the gamma c chain and activate stat6 , stat3 and stat5 protein in normal human b cell .
il13 induce the same biological effect a il4 in normal human b cell .
we show that a in the il4r complex , both il4r alpha and il2r gamma c be component of the il13r and that both cytokine induce stat6 , stat3 and stat5 activation in b cell .
in spite of this similar downstream signalling , il4 and il13 use a different set of janus kinase : il13 be unable to activate jak1 and jak3 .
dna methylation change in hematologic malignancy : biologic and clinical implication .
dna methylation change be among the most common detectable abnormality in human neoplasia .
hypermethylation within the promoter of select gene appear to be especially common in all type of human hematopoietic neoplasm , and be usually associate with inactivation of the involve gene ( s ) .
such hypermethylation-associated silencing of gene expression have be show for several gene regulate the growth and differentiation of hematopoietic cell , include the estrogen receptor ( er ) gene , p15 , p16 and others .
hypermethylation within the promoter of some gene appear to be an early event in the pathogenesis of neoplasia ( er , p15 ) , while other gene seem to become methylated during the progression of leukemia ( hic1 , c-abl ) .
the high prevalence of promoter methylation suggest that this molecular abnormality can be use to monitor disease activity during therapy .
in addition , new technology allow the sensitive identification of gene hypermethylation in a background of normal cell , suggest possible new strategy for the detection of minimal residual disease .
finally , reactivation of tumor-suppressor gene expression through pharmacologic inhibition of dna methyltransferase and resultant dna demethylation appear to be a promising new avenue of therapy in acute leukemia .
characterization of a cd43/leukosialin -mediated pathway for induce apoptosis in human t-lymphoblastoid cell .
the monoclonal antibody ( mab ) j393 induce apoptosis in jurkat t-cells .
nh2 -terminal amino acid sequence analysis identify the 140-kda surface antigen for mab j393 a cd43/leukosialin , the major sialoglycoprotein of leukocyte .
while jurkat cell co-expressed two discrete cell-surface isoforms of cd43 , recognize by mab j393 and mab g10-2 , respectively , only j393/ cd43 signal apoptosis .
j393/ cd43 be find to be hyposialylated , bear predominantly o-linked monosaccharide glycans , whereas g10-2/ cd43 bore complex sialylated tetra- and hexasaccharide chain .
treatment with soluble , bivalent mab j393 kill 25-50 % of the cell population , while concomitant engagement of either the cd3.tcr complex or the integrins cd18 and cd29 significantly potentiate this effect .
treatment of jurkat cell with mab j393 induce tyrosine phosphorylation of specific protein substrate that undergo hyperphosphorylation upon antigen receptor costimulation .
tyrosine kinase inhibition by herbimycin a diminish j393/ cd43 -mediated apoptosis , whereas inhibition of phosphotyrosine phosphatase activity by bis(maltolato)oxovanadium-iv enhance cell death .
signal transduction through tyrosine kinase activation may lead to altered gene expression , a j393/ cd43 ligation prompt decrease in the nuclear localization of the transcriptional regulatory protein nf-kappab and protein bind the interferon-inducible regulatory element .
since peripheral blood t-lymphocytes express cryptic epitope for mab j393 , these finding demonstrate the existence of a tightly regulate cd43 -mediated pathway for induce apoptosis in human t-cell lineage .
functional testosterone receptor in plasma membrane of t cell .
t cell be consider to be unresponsive to testosterone due to the absence of androgen receptor ( ar ) .
here , we demonstrate the testosterone responsiveness of murine splenic t cell in vitro as well a the presence of unconventional cell surface receptor for testosterone and classical intracellular ar .
bind site for testosterone on the surface of both cd4(+) and cd8(+) subset of t cell be directly reveal with the impeded ligand testosterone -bsa-fitc by confocal laser scanning microscopy ( clsm ) and flow cytometry , respectively .
binding of the plasma membrane impermeable testosterone -bsa conjugate induce a rapid rise ( < 5 s ) in [ca2+]i of fura-2-loaded t cell .
this rise reflect influx of extracellular ca2+ through non-voltage-gated and ni2+-blockable ca2+ channel of the plasma membrane .
the testosterone -bsa-induced ca2+ import be not affect by cyproterone , a blocker of the ar .
in addition , ar be not detectable on the surface of intact t cell when use anti- ar antibody direct against the amino and carboxy terminus of the ar , although t cell contain ar , a reveal by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blotting .
ar can be visualize with the anti- ar antibody in the cytoplasm of permeabilized t cell by use clsm , though ar be not detectable in cytosol fraction when use the charcoal binding assay with 3h-r1881 a ligand .
cytoplasmic ar do not translocate to the nucleus of t cell in the presence of testosterone , in contrast to cytoplasmic ar in human cancer lncap cell .
these finding suggest that the classical ar present in splenic t cell be not active in the genomic pathway .
by contrast , the cell surface receptor for testosterone be in a functionally active state , enable t cell a nongenomic response to testosterone .
cytoplasmic domain heterogeneity and function of igg fc receptor in b lymphocyte .
b lymphocyte and macrophage express closely related immunoglobulin g ( igg ) fc receptor ( fc gamma rii ) that differ only in the structure of their cytoplasmic domain .
because of cell type-specific alternative messenger rna splicing , b-cell fc gamma rii contain an insertion of 47 amino acid that participate in determine receptor function in these cell .
transfection of an fc gamma rii -negative b-cell line with complementary dna 's encode the two splice product and various receptor mutant indicate that the insertion be responsible for prevent both fc gamma rii -mediated endocytosis and fc gamma rii -mediated antigen presentation .
the insertion be not require for fc gamma rii to modulate surface immunoglobulin -triggered b-cell activation .
instead , regulation of activation involve a region of the cytoplasmic domain common to both the lymphocyte and macrophage receptor isoforms .
in contrast , the insertion do contribute to the formation of cap in response to receptor cross-linking , consistent with suggestion that the lymphocyte but not macrophage form of the receptor can associate with the detergent-insoluble cytoskeleton .
activation of nf-kappa b by phosphatase inhibitor involve the phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha at phosphatase 2a-sensitive site .
activation of nf-kappa b by various cellular stimulus involve the phosphorylation and subsequent degradation of it inhibitor , i kappa b alpha , although the underlie mechanism remain unclear .
in the present study , the role of serine/threonine phosphatase in the regulation of i kappa b alpha phosphorylation be investigate .
our study demonstrate that incubation of human t cell with low concentration ( approximately 1-5 nm ) of calyculin a or okadaic acid , potent inhibitor of protein phosphatase type 1 ( pp-1 ) and type 2a ( pp-2a ) , induce the phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha even in the absence of any cellular stimulus .
this action of the phosphatase inhibitor , which be associate with the activation of the rela.p50 nf-kappa b heterodimer , be not affect by agent that block the induction of i kappa b alpha phosphorylation by tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
furthermore , the phosphorylated i kappa b alpha from calyculin a -treated cell , but not that from tnf-alpha -stimulated cell , be sensitive to pp-2a in vitro , suggest the existence of fundamental difference in the phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha induce by the two different nf-kappa b inducer .
however , induction of i kappa b alpha phosphorylation by both tnf-alpha and the phosphatase inhibitor be associate with the subsequent degradation of i kappa b alpha .
we far demonstrate that tnf-alpha- and calyculin a-induced i kappa b alpha degradation exhibit similar but not identical sensitivity to a proteasome inhibitor .
together , these result suggest that phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha , mediate through both the tnf-alpha -inducible and the pp-2a -opposing kinase , may serve to target i kappa b alpha for proteasome -mediated degradation .
aldosterone-specific membrane receptor and rapid non-genomic action of mineralocorticoid .
functional study in extrarenal , non-epithelial cell such a smooth muscle cell and more recently circulate human lymphocyte have provide increase evidence that aldosterone produce not only classical genomic effect , but also rapid , non-genomic effect on transmembrane electrolyte movement .
these involve activation of the sodium/proton exchanger of the cell membrane at very low , physiological concentration of aldosterone with an acute onset within 1-2 min .
a second messenger cascade involve be the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate /calcium pathway which respond over the same rapid time course .
such change clearly can not be explain by genomic mechanism , which be responsible for late effect than the membrane related rapid response .
the mechanism underlie these rapid effect of aldosterone on electrolyte have be extensively study in human lymphocyte , which thus may represent valuable tool in the delineation of the receptor-effector mechanism involve .
the unique characteristic of this new pathway for steroid action include it rapid time course , 10,000-fold selectivity for aldosterone over cortisol and the ineffectiveness of spironolactone , classical mineralocorticoid antagonist , a antagonist of the response .
activation of stat 5b in erythroid progenitor correlate with the ability of erbb to induce sustained cell proliferation .
self renewal of normal erythroid progenitor be induce by the receptor tyrosine kinase c-erbb , whereas other receptor ( c-kit/epo-r ) regulate erythroid differentiation .
to address possible mechanism that could explain this selective activity of c-erbb , we analyze the ability of these receptor to activate the different member of the stat transcription factor family .
ligand activation of c-erbb induce the tyrosine phosphorylation , dna-binding , and reporter gene transcription of stat 5b in erythroblast .
in contrast , ligand activation of c-kit be unable to induce any of these effect in the same cell .
activation of the erythropoietin receptor cause specific dna-binding of stat 5b , but fail to induce reporter gene transcription .
these biochemical finding correlate perfectly with the selective ability of c-erbb to cause sustained self renewal in erythroid progenitor .
active suppression of the class ii transactivator-encoding air-1 locus be responsible for the lack of major histocompatibility complex class ii gene expression observe during differentiation from b cell to plasma cell .
in this study the genetic control of major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii gene expression during the transition from b cell to plasma cell have be analyze .
class ii molecule be not express in plasma cell because of an active suppression result in the abrogation of class ii gene transcription .
we show here that the plasma cell-specific repressor function , designate sir ( suppressor of immune response gene ) , do not act directly on the transcription of class ii gene , but instead on the transcription of the air-1 gene , whose product , the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) , be fundamental for the regulation of the constitutive and inducible expression of mhc class ii gene .
this be unambiguously demonstrate by the fact that plasmacytoma x b cell hybrid carry an air-1 locus derive from ciita -expressing cell do not express ciita -specific transcript .
transfection of a cdna contain the human ciita coding sequence under the control of an heterologous promoter restore expression of human mhc class ii gene in the hybrid and be responsible for de novo expression of mouse mhc class ii gene in both the mouse plasmacytoma cell line and the hybrid .
these result confirm and extend the notion of the functional conservation of the air-1 gene product across specie barrier .
interestingly , in ciita -transfected cell hybrid , cell surface expression of the human hla-dq heterodimer be not observe .
this result be not attributable to lack of hla -dq alpha or -dq beta transcription , because both transcript be present in the ciita -transfected hybrid , although at reduce level .
these finding far support our previous observation on the distinct regulation of expression of the human hla-dq class ii subset , which may be thus control at the posttranscriptional level by a ciita -independent mechanism .
differential induction of the nf-at complex during restimulation and the induction of t-cell anergy .
stimulation of human cd4+ t-cell clone through the t-cell receptor ( tcr ) by high dos of specific peptide result in the induction of a long-lived state of nonresponsiveness that have be call anergy .
during the induction of anergy , t cell be phenotypically similar to cell respond to an immunogenic stimulus .
the amount of tcr at the cell surface be downmodulated , whereas the cd2 and cd25 receptor be increase .
when restimulated , however , anergic t cell fail to up-regulate transcription of the il-2 gene and in consequence do not produce il-2 .
in this study , we have compare the ability of various transcription factor to bind to their appropriate site on dna .
factor be isolate from the nucleus of t cell that be in the induction phase of anergy or be undergo activation .
the pattern of binding activity in restimulated t cell be consistent with the pattern that have previously be show to regulate t-cell-specific expression of the il-2 and the beta chain of the tcr gene .
the measure binding to a tcf-1 site be the same in the nucleus of rest , activate , and anergized cell .
the inducible factor nk-kappa b , beta e2 , cd28rc , and ap-1 be not express in rest cell and be twofold lower in anergized a compare with activate cell .
in contrast , anergic t cell express approximately eightfold low amount of nf-at , a member of the class of inducible factor that regulate il-2 gene transcription .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
hypoxia cause the activation of nuclear factor kappa b through the phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha on tyrosine residue .
the response of mammalian cell to stress be control by transcriptional regulatory protein such a nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) to induce a wide variety of early response gene .
in this report , we show that exposure of cell to hypoxia ( 0.02 % o2 ) result in i kappa b alpha degradation , increase nf-kappa b dna binding activity , and transactivation of a reporter gene construct contain two nf-kappa b dna binding site .
pretreatment of cell with protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor and the dominant negative allele of c-raf-1 ( raf 301 ) inhibit i kappa b alpha degradation , nf-kappa b binding , and transactivation of kappa b reporter construct by hypoxia .
to demonstrate a direct link between change in the phosphorylation pattern of i kappa b alpha with nf-kappa b activation , we immunoprecipitated i kappa b alpha after vary time of hypoxic exposure and find that it tyrosine phosphorylation status increase during hypoxic exposure .
inhibition of the transfer of tyrosine phosphoryl group onto i kappa b alpha prevent i kappa b alpha degradation and nf-kappa b binding .
in comparison to other activator of nf-kappa b such a phorbol myristate acetate or tumor necrosis factor , we do not detect change in the tyrosine phosphorylation status of i kappa b alpha follow treatment with either of these agent .
these result suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha during hypoxia be an important proximal step which precede it dissociation and degradation from nf-kappa b .
costimulation of peripheral blood t cell activation by human endothelial cell .
enhance il-2 transcription correlate with increase c-fos synthesis and increase fo content of ap-1 .
endothelial cell ( ec ) act a apc for rest pbl in vitro , and may have important role in vivo in the pathogenesis of allograft rejection and delay hypersensitivity .
we previously report that human umbilical vein ec provide costimulatory signal to pha-stimulated pbl via cd2 : lymphocyte function-associated ag-3 and an unidentified ligand pair , result in a three- to eight-fold enhancement of il-2 production .
the physiologic relevance of this increase be demonstrate by the proliferative advantage provide by ec to pbl suboptimally stimulate with mab okt3 .
we now report that ec costimulation cause increase level of il-2 mrna a a result of increase il-2 transcription in pbl .
we therefore examine the effect of ec on t cell nuclear factor know to regulate il-2 transcription , include c-jun and c-fos-two component of the transcription factor ap-1 , nfat , and others .
pbl constitutively express c-jun transcript , and the level of c-jun mrna be not alter by pha activation in the absence or presence of ec .
in contrast , c-fos mrna be absent from rest t cell and be induce on pha activation .
ec alone do not induce c-fos mrna but augment the level of c-fos mrna in pha-activated t cell by 3- to 10-fold .
this effect be largely independent of the cd2 : lymphocyte function- associate ag-3 pathway .
gel-shift analysis reveal the constitutive presence of nuclear factor in rest pbl that bind to the proximal ap-1 site of the il-2 promoter and that contain immunoreactive c-jun but not c-fos protein .
in contrast , ap-1 from pha-activated cell contain c-jun and low level of c-fos .
strikingly , costimulation with ec result in a dramatic increase ( up to 15-fold ) in the c-fos content of ap-1 .
level of other nuclear factor involve in il-2 regulation be not alter by ec , although nfat-dna complex migrate at a slightly different mobility .
in summary , our data suggest that change in the composition of transcription factor ap-1 be a key molecular mechanism for increase il-2 transcription and may underlie the phenomenon of costimulation by ec .
influence of age on the production of fo and jun by influenza virus-exposed t cell .
this study investigate age-related t cell response after in vitro exposure to influenza a virus .
mononuclear leukocyte from young or elderly person be sham-exposed or expose to influenza virus for 1 , 24 , and 72 h .
immunofluorescent staining and flow cytometric analysis be then use to detect t cell produce the transcriptional regulating protein fo and jun .
few virus-exposed cell from elderly donor stain for fo and jun at each data point compare with cell from young donor .
flow cytometric analysis also show that at 72 h of virus exposure few t cell from the elderly produce interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) , suggest a link between the magnitude of the fo and jun and ifn-gamma response .
thus , failure of virus-exposed t cell to produce fo and jun could contribute to the increase in illness due to influenza virus in the elderly .
the c-jun delta-domain inhibit neuroendocrine promoter activity in a dna sequence- and pituitary- specific manner .
the transcription and transformation activity of c-jun be govern by a 27-amino acid regulatory motif , label the delta-domain , which be delete in v-jun .
we have previously show that c-jun be a potent inhibitor of the rat prolactin ( rprl ) promoter activity induce by either oncogenic ra or phorbol ester .
here , we have characterize the structural and cell-specific requirement for this c-jun inhibitory response , and we show that this c-jun inhibitory response map to the rprl footprint ii repressor site , be pituitary-specific and require the c-jun delta-domain .
moreover , alteration of any one of these feature ( e.g. , cis-element , trans-factor , or cell-specific background ) switch c-jun to a transcriptional activator of the rprl promoter .
in hela nonpituitary cell , c-jun alone activate the rprl promoter via the most proximal ghf-1/pit-1 binding site , footprint i , and synergized with ghf-1 .
finally , recombinant ghf-1 interact directly with c-jun but not c-fos protein .
these data provide important fundamental insight into the molecular mechanism by which the c-jun delta-domain function a a modulatory switch and far imply that the functional role of c-jun be dictate by cell-specific influence and the delta-domain motif .
transactivation of the interleukin-1alpha promoter by human t-cell leukemia virus type i and type ii tax protein .
human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) -infected t-cell line constitutively produce high level of interleukin-1alpha ( il-1alpha ) .
to analyze the mechanism that lead to the expression of il-1alpha in htlv-i -infected cell line , we study regulatory region of the human il-1alpha promoter involve in activation of the il-1alpha gene .
il-1alpha promoter construct drive transcription of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) reporter gene in htlv-i -positive mt-2 cell , which constitutively produce il-1alpha .
in a cotransfection assay , the tax protein of both htlv-i and htlv-ii specifically activate transcription from the il-1alpha promoter in an uninfected jurkat cell line .
a mutant tax protein deficient in transactivation of gene by the nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappab pathway be unable to induce transcriptional activity of il-1alpha promoter -cat construct , but be rescue by exogenous provision of p65/p50 nf-kappab .
we find that two il-1alpha kappab-like site ( position -1,065 to -1,056 and +646 to +655 ) specifically form a complex with nf-kappab -containing nuclear extract from mt-2 cell and that nf-kappab bind with high affinity to the 3' nf-kappab binding site than to the 5' nf-kappab site .
moreover , deletion of either 5' or 3' nf-kappab site reduce il-1alpha promoter activity in mt-2 cell and transactivation of the il-1alpha promoter by exogenous nf-kappab and tax in jurkat cell .
these data suggest a general role for tax induction of il-1alpha gene transcription by the nf-kappab pathway .
expression of il-1alpha by htlv-i productively infected cell may be important in the hypercalcemia , osteolytic bone lesion , neutrophilia , elevation of c-reactive protein , and fever frequently see in patient with htlv-i -induced adult t-cell leukemia/lymphoma .
glucocorticoid receptor on mononuclear leukocyte in polycystic ovary syndrome .
objective : many study have suggest that there be a possible hormonal dysregulation of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis and an increase cortisol clearance in patient with polycystic ovary syndrome ( pcos ) .
therefore in this study , we have examine the role of glucocorticoid receptor/s ( gr ) characteristic in the developing of these abnormality in patient with pcos .
method : for this purpose , the number and affinity of gr in peripheral mononuclear leukocyte ( mnl ) of 10 patient with pcos and 10 healthy woman ( control ) be determine .
result : there be no significant difference in the number ( 6500+/-1001 sites/cell and 6352+/-1697 sites/cell , respectively ; p > 0.05 ) and affinity ( 3.93+/-0.89 nm and 4.49+/-0.71 nm , respectively ; p > 0.05 ) of gr between the pcos patient and the control .
conclusion : these result suggest that the alteration in the hpa axis and in the cortisol metabolism observe in pcos be not related to gr deficiency .
[ mechanism of action of steroid hormone . i . estrogen ]
the steroid hormone be very versatile molecule : although they be related among them by their chemical structure , they have very diverse function and include antagonic .
their action mechanism be not completely clear .
the estrogen participate in the regulation of practically all the reproductive and sexual event of the female , although the intracellular action by which they take place be not well know and the proposed model do not adequately satisfy the question .
currently it be accept the existence of a cytoplasmic and/or nuclear receptor , without explain satisfactorily how the hormone come to the nucleus .
the endocrine event that be rapidly express ( second ) be due to a possible interaction with cellular membrane .
the purpose of this review be to analyze and concilliate the report data on the mechanism of action of estrogen .
long-term inositol phosphate release , but not tyrosine kinase activity , correlate with il-2 secretion and nf-at induction in anti-cd3-activated peripheral human t lymphocyte .
the cascade of event within the first few minute of t cell stimulation have be well characterize .
although many second messenger have be show to be necessary and sufficient for t cell activation in a number of model system , the rate-limiting step in peripheral t cell have not be demonstrate .
to model effective versus ineffective cd3 -mediated stimulation in peripheral t cell , we use two anti-cd3 mabs that differ in their ability to stimulate purify t cell : okt3 , which cause early second messenger generation but be unable to activate t cell without a second signal , and 64.1 , which stimulate t cell proliferation on it own .
we find that tyrosine kinase activity be similar for both mabs over a period of hour .
however , the inositol phosphate response be strong for 64.1 than for okt3 .
to tie these event to gene activation , we measure nf-kappa b and nf-at activity in the nucleus after anti-cd3 stimulation .
both stimulus induce the appearance of the nf-kappa b component ( c-rel , p65 ( rela ) , and p50 ( nf-kappa b1 ) ) and nf-kappa b dna binding activity in the nucleus .
however , only 64.1 induce nf-at in the nucleus , correlate with it ability to activate t cell .
thus , nf-at induction and il-2 secretion be correlate with the level of inositol phosphate release but not with gross level of tyrosine kinase activity induce late follow the response .
on the other hand , nf-kappa b induction and il-2 receptor expression occur even with the small second messenger response generate by okt3 .
ras-related gtp-binding protein and leukocyte signal transduction .
many aspect of leukocyte function be regulate by both heterotrimeric and ras-related gtp-binding protein , but there be little definite information about their role in the specialized process utilize by leukocyte for cell killing .
recent progress in understand the regulation of the phagocyte nadph oxidase by the rac gtp-binding protein provide a basis for define the operational characteristic of one such phagocyte system .
it be clear from various study that the activity of the nadph oxidase can be modulate through the regulation of the gtp-gdp state of rac .
protein exist in leukocyte able to modify gtp-binding protein function in this manner , and their activity may be regulate by signal generate on phagocyte stimulation .
protein of the ra superfamily be likely to be involve in a variety of normal phagocyte function through their ability to modulate the assembly of actin filament , direct vesicle trafficking and fusion , and so forth .
expression of either the tcl1 oncogene , or transcript from it homologue mtcp1/c6.1b , in leukaemic and non-leukaemic t cell from ataxia telangiectasia patient .
patient with the recessively inherit disorder ataxia telangiectasia ( a-t ) have a high level of specific chromosome translocation which can be easily observe in peripheral t cell and show a greatly increase predisposition to leukaemia/lymphoma , mainly of t cell origin .
some translocation cell proliferate into a large clone and may develop into t cell prolymphocytic leukaemia ( t-pll ) .
by the time of diagnosis of t-pll , the clone contain many more genetic change in the form of additional translocation .
t-pll be also see in non- a-t individual where expression of either tcl1 ( at 14q32 ) or the c6.1b/mtcp1 a1 transcript ( at-xq28 ) have be demonstrate in just a few instance .
we show here , that expression of tcl1 occur in leukaemic t cell from a-t patient with chromosome 14 rearrangement .
expression of tcl1 also occur in the preleukaemic clone cell of a-t patient contain the primary translocation alone .
some expression of tcl1 could also be detect in randomly select a-t patient without large cytogenetic clone and without any evidence of leukaemic change .
we also show that expression of the b1 transcript from a second gene , mtcp1 , occur at a relatively high level only in two t-pll tumour from a-t patient with t(x;14) translocation whereas the mtcp1 /a1 transcript be much more widely express in both tumour and non tumour cell of a-t and non- a-t individual .
rescue by cytokine of apoptotic cell death induce by il-2 deprivation of human antigen-specific t cell clone .
the control of cell survival and cell death be of central importance in tissue with high cell turnover such a the lymphoid system .
we have examine the effect of cytokine on il-2 deprivation-induced apoptosis of human antigen-specific t helper clone with different cytokine production profile .
we find that il-2 , interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) , and ifn-beta inhibit il-2 deprivation apoptosis in th0 , th1 , and th2 clone .
we also find that il-2 protect t cell clone from il-2 deprivation apoptosis accompany active proliferation and enhance expression of p53 , rb and bcl-xl protein .
in contrast , ifn-alpha /beta rescue t cell clone from apoptosis without active proliferation , and expression of apoptosis -associated protein test so far be unaffected .
this may be due to the fact that t cell treat with il-2 contain those located in s + g2/m phase of the cell cycle , whereas the vast majority of t cell treat with ifn-alpha /beta be located in g0/g1 phase .
ifn-alpha /beta specifically induce tyrosine phosphorylation and translocation into nucleus of signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) 2 protein in the t cell clone .
in addition , over-expression of stat2 by transfection of the cdna prevent apoptosis of the t cell clone .
our present study show that ifn -alpha and -beta mediate anti-apoptotic effect through other pathway than that of il-2 in growth factor deprivation apoptosis .
superantigens activate hiv-1 gene expression in monocytic cell .
binding of superantigens to mhc class ii molecule result in transduction of biochemical signal lead to cellular activation and gene expression .
we demonstrate that the staphylococcal superantigens toxic shock syndrome toxin-1 ( tsst-1 ) and staphylococcal enterotoxin a ( sea ) activate hiv-1 -ltr -driven transcription of chloramphenicol acetyl transferase in the human monocytic cell line thp-1 .
induction of hiv-1 - ltr -driven transcription in thp-1 cell by superantigens be associate with the induction of nuclear factor-kappa b dna-binding activity .
superantigens also increase viral protein secretion from the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor -pretreated chronically infected human monocytic cell line u1 .
induction of hiv-1 gene expression in monocytic cell by superantigens occur via tumor necrosis factor-alpha -dependent and -independent mechanism .
our result suggest that superantigens and other mhc class ii ligand may activate hiv-1 gene expression in monocytes/macrophages .
reactive oxygen intermediate a apparently widely use messenger in the activation of the nf-kappa b transcription factor and hiv-1 .
hydrogen peroxide and oxygen radical be agent commonly produce during inflammatory process .
in this study , we show that micromolar concentration of h2o2 can induce the expression and replication of hiv-1 in a human t cell line .
the effect be mediate by the nf-kappa b transcription factor which be potently and rapidly activate by an h2o2 treatment of cell from it inactive cytoplasmic form .
n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , a well characterize antioxidant which counteract the effect of reactive oxygen intermediate ( roi ) in live cell , prevent the activation of nf-kappa b by h2o2 .
nac and other thiol compound also block the activation of nf-kappa b by cycloheximide , double-stranded rna , calcium ionophore , tnf-alpha , active phorbol ester , interleukin-1 , lipopolysaccharide and lectin .
this suggest that diverse agent think to activate nf-kappa b by distinct intracellular pathway might all act through a common mechanism involve the synthesis of roi .
roi appear to serve a messenger mediate directly or indirectly the release of the inhibitory subunit i kappa b from nf-kappa b .
regulation of m-csf expression by m-csf : role of protein kinase c and transcription factor nf kappa b .
macrophage-colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) , also refer to a csf-1 , regulate the survival , growth , differentiation and functional activity of monocyte by bind to a single class of high-affinity cell surface receptor , know to be the product of the c-fms protooncogene .
the detection of both m-csf and c-fms expression by cell of the monocyte lineage have suggest that m-csf may act by an autocrine mechanism .
interestingly , it have be show that m-csf can induce the expression of it own gene .
although sensitivity to m-csf can be modulate by regulation of receptor expression and function , m-csf responsiveness be largely determine at a postreceptor level .
to date , little be know about the intracellular pathway of m-csf signal transduction .
we have therefore investigate the change in protein kinase c ( pkc ) activity upon exposure of monocyte to m-csf .
we show that m-csf activate and translocate pkc .
inhibition of pkc by the isoquinoline derivative h7 abolish induction of m-csf by m-csf .
furthermore , activation of pkc be pertussis-toxin-sensitive and be associate with the detection of an nf kappa b protein in nuclear extract of m-csf -induced blood monocyte but not in monocyte expose to medium treatment only .
the result suggest that m-csf induction of m-csf involve g protein , pkc and nf kappa b .
[ regulation of transcription of the interleukin-2 gene in b-lymphocytes ]
since most b cell clone immortalize with ebv virus can be induce to produce interleukin-2 , a typical t cell cytokine , we study the role of different element of the il-2 promoter in such clone by transfection .
it be find , in particular , that the element tced , which bind the transcription factor nf-kb , be very active in all three b clone test .
this element have no activity in t cell of the jurkat line .
the nfatd element , which bind the transcription factor nfat-1 and be very active in t cell , be only weakly active in one b clone and not at all in another .
different element thus contribute to il-2 promoter activity in different cell .
inhibition of the differentiation of human myeloid cell line by redox change induce through glutathione depletion .
we have investigate the effect of redox change in vivo on the differentiation of two human myeloid cell line , hl-60 and kg-1 .
the glutathione -depleting agent diethyl maleate ( dem ) prevent the development of differentiate feature in response to phorbol ester , include adherence of the cell to plastic surface and repression of the myeloperoxidase and cd34 gene .
moreover , dem abolish phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -induced activation of the transcription factor ap-1 and egr-1 , suggest that inhibition of differentiation may be due , at least in part , to redox modification of these protein .
regulation of interferon-gamma gene expression .
interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) , also know a type ii interferon , be an important immunoregulatory gene that have multiple effect on the development , maturation , and function of the immune system .
ifn-gamma mrna and protein be express predominantly by t cell and large granular lymphocyte
the ifn-gamma mrna be induced/inhibited in these cell type by a wide variety of extracellular signal , thus implicate a number of diverse, yet convergent signal transduction pathway in it transcriptional control
in this review , i describe how dna methylation and specific dna binding protein may regulate transcription of the ifn-gamma gene in response to extracellular signal .
characterization of cd40 signaling determinant regulate nuclear factor-kappa b activation in b lymphocyte .
cd40 signaling to b cell be important for generate an effective humoral immune response .
cd40 ligation lead to b cell activation event such a proliferation , ig secretion , isotype switching , and up-regulation of cell surface molecule , as well a the generation of memory b cell .
many of these event be dependent upon the ability of cd40 to activate the transcription factor nf-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) .
to define the cd40 signaling component upstream of nf-kappa b activation and the functional consequence downstream of nf-kappa b activation , we examine mouse b cell transfectants express wild-type or mutant human cd40 .
analysis of cd40 cytoplasmic domain truncation and point mutant define a 10-amino acid cd40 cytoplasmic signaling determinant require for nf-kappa b activation .
a threonine residue at position 234 , previously show to be important for cd40 association with tnf receptor-associated factor 2 ( traf2 ) , traf3 , and traf5 , be not require for nf-kappa b activation .
this suggest that in b cell , cd40 -induced nf-kappa b activation can occur independently of traf2 and traf5 association .
nf-kappa b activation be independent of the transmembrane domain of cd40 , suggest that it be independent of p23 , a molecule that associate with cd40 in a region other than the cytoplasmic domain .
proteasome-dependent inhibitory kappa b alpha ( i kappa b alpha ) and i kappa b beta degradation occur downstream of cd40 ligation and precede cd40 -mediated nf-kappa b nuclear translocation .
cd40- or pervanadate- mediated i kappa b tyrosine phosphorylation be not detect .
nf-kappa b activation correlate with the ability of cd40 to induce ab secretion and the up-regulation of icam-1 and lfa-1 .
however , nf-kappa b activation be insufficient for cd40 -mediated up-regulation of b7-1 , fa , and cd23 .
pancreatic development and maturation of the islet b cell .
study of pluripotent islet culture .
pancreas organogenesis be a highly regulate process , in which two anlage evaginate from the primitive gut .
they later fuse , and , under the influence of the surround mesenchyme , the mature organ develop , be mainly compose of ductal , exocrine and endocrine compartment .
early bud be characterize by a branch morphogenesis of the ductal epithelium from which endocrine and exocrine precursor cell bud to eventually form the two other compartment .
the three compartment be think to be of common endodermal origin ; in contrast to early hypothesis , which suggest that the endocrine compartment be of neuroectodermal origin .
it be thus generally believe that the pancreatic endocrine-lineage possess the ability to mature along a differentiation pathway that share many characteristic with those of neuronal differentiation .
during recent year , study of insulin-gene regulation and , in particular , the tissue-specific transcriptional control of insulin-gene activity have provide information on pancreas development in general .
the present review summarize these finding , with a special focus on our own study on pluripotent endocrine culture of rat pancreas .
induction of activator protein ( ap ) -1 and nuclear factor-kappab by cd28 stimulation involve both phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and acidic sphingomyelinase signal .
a major obstacle in understand the signaling event that follow cd28 receptor ligation arise from the fact that cd28 act a a costimulus to tcr engagement , make it difficult to assess the relative contribution of cd28 signal a distinct from those of the tcr .
to overcome this problem , we have exploit the observation that activate human t cell blast can be stimulate via the cd28 surface molecule in the absence of antigenic challenge ; thus , we have be able to observe the response of normal t cell to cd28 activation in isolation .
use this system , we observe that cd28 stimulation by b7-transfected cho cell induce a proliferative response in t cell that be not accompany by measurable il-2 production .
however , subsequent analysis of transcription factor generation reveal that b7 stimulation induce both activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) and nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) complex , but not nf-at .
in contrast , engagement of the tcr by class ii mhc/superantigen , either with or without cd28 ligation , result in the induction of nf-at , ap-1 , and nf-kappab as well a il-2 production .
use selective inhibitor , we investigate the signaling pathway involve in the cd28 -mediated induction of ap-1 and nf-kappab .
this reveal that nf-kappab generation be sensitive to chloroquine , an inhibitor of acidic sphingomyelinase , but not to the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor , wortmannin .
in contrast , ap-1 generation be inhibit by wortmannin and be also variably sensitive to chloroquine .
these data suggest that in activate normal t cell , cd28 -derived signal can stimulate proliferation at least in part via nf-kappab and ap-1 generation , and that this response use both acidic sphingomyelinase and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase -linked pathway .
inhibition of transcription factor belong to the rel/ nf-kappa b family by a transdominant negative mutant .
the kbf1 factor , which bind to the enhancer a located in the promoter of the mouse mhc class i gene h-2kb , be indistinguishable from the p50 dna binding subunit of the transcription factor nf-kappa b , which regulate a series of gene involve in immune and inflammatory response .
the kbf1/p50 factor bind a a homodimer but can also form heterodimers with the product of other member of the same family , like the c-rel and v-rel ( proto ) oncogene .
the dimerization domain of kbf1/p50 be contain between amino acid 201 and 367 .
a mutant of kbf1/p50 ( delta sp ) , unable to bind to dna but able to form homo- or heterodimers , have be construct .
this protein reduce or abolish in vitro the dna binding activity of wild-type protein of the same family ( kbf1/p50 , c- and v- rel ) .
this mutant also function in vivo a a trans-acting dominant negative regulator : the transcriptional inducibility of the hiv long terminal repeat ( which contain two potential nf-kappa b binding site ) by phorbol ester ( pma ) be inhibit when it be co-transfected into cd4+ t cell with the delta sp mutant .
similarly the basal as well a tnf or il1-induced activity of the mhc class i h-2kb promoter can be inhibit by this mutant in two different cell line .
these result constitute the first formal demonstration that these gene be regulate by member of the rel/ nf-kappa b family .
hypertension in pregnancy .
pregnancy-induced hypertension ( pih ) be a frequent cause of maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality .
in the present study we focus on the pathophysiology of pih , mainly on the role of mineralocorticoid , reverse blood pressure pattern , and the result necessity of continuous monitoring of the preeclamptic mother .
problem of antihypertensive therapy be discuss and the first result of a pilot study with urapidil be present .
to examine the role of mineralocorticoid in the pathophysiology of pih , we study plasma aldosterone and 18-hydroxy-corticosterone ( 18-oh-b ) level in 25 woman with pih and in 25 healthy pregnant woman .
furthermore , we evaluate the mineralocorticoid receptor ( mr ) count in mononuclear leukocyte in the 2 group .
the mr-count be significantly decrease in the pih -group .
the value of plasma aldosterone and 18-oh-b be also low .
these result can not be explain by receptor down-regulation due to high level of mineralocorticoid of the zona glomerulosa .
perhaps deoxycorticosterone or a hitherto unknown mineralocorticoid be responsible for the hypertension and altered mr -status .
the first result of continuous blood pressure measurement with a noninvasive , real-time blood pressure monitor ( finapres ) be present .
the comparison of the obtain value with intraarterial measurement demonstrate a good correlation between the two method .
we also report on the first experience with urapidil in the treatment of hypertension in severe preeclampsia .
the data show that hypertension in preeclamptic woman can be treat by urapidil without side effect or reflex-tachycardia .
further study will have to prove if urapidil be suit for prepartal treatment of pih as well .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat quasispecies differ in basal transcription and nuclear factor recruitment in human glial cell and lymphocyte .
the generation of genomic diversity during the course of infection have the potential to affect all aspect of hiv-1 replication , include expression of the proviral genome .
to gain a good understanding of the impact of long terminal repeat ( ltr ) sequence diversity on ltr -directed gene expression in cell of the central nervous system ( cns ) and immune system , we amplify and clone ltrs from proviral dna in hiv-1 -infected peripheral blood .
sequence analysis of nineteen ltrs clone from 2 adult and 3 pediatric patient reveal an average of 33 nucleotide change ( with respect to the sequence of the lai ltr ) within the 455-bp u3 region .
transient expression analysis in cell of neuroglial and lymphocytic origin demonstrate that some of these ltrs have activity which vary significantly from the lai ltr in u-373 mg cell ( an astrocytoma cell line ) as well a in jurkat cell ( a cd4- positive lymphocyte cell line ) .
while ltrs which demonstrate the high activity in u-373 mg cell also yield high activity in jurkat cell , the ltrs be generally more active in jurkat cell when compare to the lai ltr .
difference in ltr sequence also result in difference in transcription factor recruitment to cis-acting site within the u3 region of the ltr , a demonstrate by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
in particular , naturally occur sequence variation impacted transcription factor bind to an activate transcription factor/ camp response element binding ( atf/creb ) binding site ( located between the lef-1 and distal nf-kappab transcription factor binding site ) that we identify in previous study of the hiv-1 ltr .
these finding suggest that ltr sequence change can significantly affect basal ltr function and transcription factor recruitment , which may , in turn , alter the course of viral replication in cell of cns and immune system origin .
distinctive expression pattern of the bcl-6 protein in nodular lymphocyte predominance hodgkin 's disease .
the bcl-6 gene encode a nuclear-located kruppel-type zinc finger protein be rearrange in about 30 % diffuse large b-cell lymphoma and be express predominantly in normal germinal center b cell and related lymphoma .
these finding suggest that bcl-6 may play a role in regulate differentiation of normal germinal center b cell and that it deregulate expression cause by rearrangement may contribute to lymphomagenesis .
this prompt u to investigate the expression of the bcl-6 protein in hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) , focus on the nodular lymphocyte predominance subtype ( nlphd ) , which differ from classical hd by virtue of the b-cell nature of the malignant cell population ( so-called l & h cell ) and it relationship with germinal center .
forty-one hd sample ( 19 nlphd , 12 nodular sclerosis , and 10 mixed cellularity ) be immunostained with the monoclonal antibody pg-b6 and pg-b6p that react with a fixative-sensitive and a formalin-resistant epitope on the aminoterminal region of the bcl-6 gene product , respectively .
strong nuclear positivity for the bcl-6 protein be detect in tumor ( l & h ) cell in all case of nlphd .
in contrast , bcl-6 be express only in a small percentage of hodgkin and reed-sternberg cell in about 30 % of classical hd case .
notably , the nucleus of reactive cd3+/cd4+ t cell nearby to and rosetting around l & h cell in nlphd be also strongly bcl-6 + , but lack cd40 ligand ( cd40l ) expression .
this staining pattern clearly differ from that of classical hd , whose cellular background be make up of cd3+/cd4+ t cell show the bcl-6 -/ cd40l + phenotype .
these result far support the concept that nlphd be an histogenetically distinct , b-cell-derived subtype of hd and suggest a role for bcl-6 in it development .
epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 and latent membrane protein independently transactivate p53 through induction of nf-kappab activity .
b-cell immortalization by epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) be dependent on permanent control of the cellular process which normally regulate cell division and apoptosis , function possess by p53 in a number of normal cell type .
in study initiate to evaluate relationship between ebv latent gene and p53 , p53 level be find to increase approximately 10-fold 4 to 5 day after ebv infection of purify rest human b cell ; the induce p53 be transcriptionally active .
latent membrane protein 1 and , to a less extent , ebv nuclear antigen 2 mediate the increase in p53 level via activation of the nf-kappab transcription factor .
induction of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 expression in monocytic cell by cryptococcus neoformans and candida albicans .
because candidiasis and cryptococcosis be common in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -infected person , the effect of cryptococcus neoformans and candida albicans on hiv expression in monocytic cell be examine .
stimulation of the latently hiv-infected myelomonocytic cell line om-10.1 with c. neoformans and c. albicans in the presence of pooled human serum cause a ratio-dependent increase in hiv production .
induction of hiv by c. neoformans be enhance by anti-capsular antibody , while induction by both organism be inhibit by anti-tnf-alpha antibody .
in thp-1 cell transfected with hiv plasmid construct , both organism induce transcription from the hiv long terminal repeat that be dependent on intact nf-kappab binding sequence .
thus , c. neoformans and c. albicans enhance hiv expression in monocytic cell through a tnf-alpha- and nf-kappab- dependent mechanism .
in hiv -infected patient , such enhancement may far impair host immunity and could accelerate the course of hiv disease .
activation of ra and mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway by terminal complement complex be g protein dependent .
assembly of terminal complement complex ( tcc ) c5b-7 , c5b-8 , and c5b-9 on target cell during acute and chronic inflammation induce hydrolysis of plasma membrane phospholipid and heterotrimeric g protein activation .
tcc also stimulate a variety of cellular activity , which include cytokine synthesis , proto-oncogene activation , and mitotic signaling .
now we report that sublytic tcc induce ra , raf-1 , and extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) 1 activation in jy25 b cell line .
when cell be expose to c5b-9 , gtp-bound ra in anti- c5b-9 immunoprecipitates be increase 3.2-fold at 2 min , while gtp-bound ra in anti- ras immunoprecipitates be increase 2-fold at 10 min .
both c5b-9 and c5b-7 , but not c5b6 , increase raf-1 kinase activity maximum 3.3-fold at 2 min and 2.8-fold at 5 min , respectively .
erk1 activity be 2-fold increase by c5b-9 at 2 min and by c5b-7 at 10 min , over the c5b6 level .
the role of mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) pathway on tcc -inducible mitotic signaling be evaluate by assess dna synthesis and activator protein 1 ( ap-1 ) dna-binding activity .
the mapk/erk-specific inhibitor pd 098,059 abolish the c5b-9 -induced dna synthesis .
involvement of g protein in the activation of mapk pathway by tcc be indicate by inhibition of raf-1 and erk1 kinase activity , as well a the dna synthesis by pretreatment of cell with pertussis toxin .
overexpression of beta-adrenergic receptor kinase 1 carboxyl-terminal peptide in jy25 cell also inhibit raf-1 and erk1 activity , indicate a direct involvement of g betagamma subunit in the signal transduction generate through activation of mapk pathway by tcc assembly in the plasma membrane .
nf-kappa b -dependent induction of the nf-kappa b p50 subunit gene promoter underlie self-perpetuation of human immunodeficiency virus transcription in monocytic cell .
the molecular mechanism underlie the sustained nuclear translocation of nf-kappa b observe in u937 monocytic cell chronically infect with human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) be study .
the activity of the promoter regulate the synthesis of the p105 precursor of the nf-kappa b p50 subunit be enhance in these cell .
deletion in this promoter indicate that this upregulation be mediate through the nf-kappa b- but not the ap-1-binding motif , by bona fide p50/p65 heterodimers .
analysis of cytosolic extract indicate that nf-kappa b level be increase in hiv -infected cell .
in contrast to the transient nf-kappa b activation induce by phorbol ester , the permanent nf-kappa b translocation induce by hiv infection be not dependent on pkc isoenzymes alpha and beta a show by the use of a specific inhibitor ( gf 109203x ) .
these observation indicate that during chronic hiv infection of u937 cell , continuous nf-kappa b ( p50/p65 ) translocation result in p105 promoter upregulation with subsequent cytosolic nf-kappa b accumulation , ready for further translocation .
this hiv -mediated mechanism result in a self-perpetuating loop of nf-kappa b production .
tat-binding protein 7 be a subunit of the 26 protease .
subunit 6 ( s6 ) , an integral component of the 26 protease from human erythrocyte , have be study by sds-page , peptide mapping and sequence analysis .
s6 be cleave with cnbr and three internal peptide be sequence .
a comparison with known protein in genbank reveal that all three s6 peptide match the predict sequence of tbp7 , tat-binding protein 7 .
base on peptide match cover more than 10 % of the tbp7 sequence , and the fact that the migration of s6 on sds-page be consistent with the estimate molecular mass for tbp7 , we conclude that subunit 6 of the 26 protease be tbp7 .
interleukin-10 stabilize inhibitory kappab-alpha in human monocyte .
interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) protect animal from lethal endotoxemia .
this beneficial effect be mediate , in part , by inhibition of inflammatory cytokine production , include tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
evidence suggest that il-10 may inhibit activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) through an unknown mechanism .
nf-kappab activation in response to inflammatory signal be dependent upon degradation of it associate inhibitory peptide , inhibitory kappab-alpha ( ikappab-alpha ) .
we hypothesize that il-10 prevent human monocyte nf-kappab activation and resultant tnf-alpha production by stabilization of ikappab-alpha .
the purpose of this study be to determine the effect of il-10 on lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -induced human monocyte tnf-alpha production , nf-kappab activation , and ikappab-alpha degradation .
monocyte be isolate from human donor .
cell be stimulate with endotoxin ( lp , 100 ng/ml ) with and without human il-10 ( 10 ng/ml ) .
follow stimulation , tnf-alpha be measure in cell supernatant by elisa , nf-kappab activity by electrophoretic mobility shift assay , and ikappab-alpha level by western blot .
we observe that after lp stimulation of human monocyte , tnf-alpha increase to 798+/-67 pg/ml ( p < .001 versus control ) .
il-10 attenuate lp -stimulated tnf-alpha production ( 297+/-54 ; p < .001 versus lp alone ) .
after lp stimulation in human monocyte , ikappab-alpha protein level decrease , and nf-kappab dna binding increase .
il-10 pretreatment prevent lp -induced decrease in ikappab-alpha protein level and attenuate nf-kappab dna binding .
il-10 appear to prevent activation of nf-kappab by preserve ikappab-alpha protein level , lead to a reduction in tnf-alpha release .
immunophenotype of intraductal carcinoma .
objective -- mammography and breast-conserving therapy have focus attention on the classification of intraductal carcinoma ( idc ) and emphasize the prognostic importance of comedo versus noncomedo variant .
we use histochemical marker to define the immunophenotype of 43 idcs with respect to comedo versus noncomedo status and pattern of angiogenesis .
result -- reaction in comedo carcinoma be significantly negative for estrogen receptor and progesterone receptor , and positive for p53 and her-2/neu more often than the noncomedo variant .
all seven idcs associate with paget 's disease show positive reaction for her-2/neu .
basement membrane immunoreactivity for type iv collagen and laminin be discontinuous in most example of idc regardless of type , with a trend toward more intense staining in comedo than in noncomedo carcinoma .
periductal angiogenesis be not significantly related to the type of idc but be more pronounced with comedo carcinoma .
conclusion -- these observation indicate that there be immunophenotypic correlate to the current structural classification of idc .
the immunophenotype of idc be helpful in subclassifying an idc and could prove useful a a prognostic indicator for local control in patient treat by breast-conserving therapy .
integrin-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation and cytokine message induction in monocytic cell .
a possible signaling role for the syk tyrosine kinase .
activation of cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase be an important aspect of signal transduction mediate by integrins .
in the human monocytic cell line thp-1 , either integrin -dependent cell adhesion to fibronectin or ligation of beta 1 integrins with antibody cause a rapid and intense tyrosine phosphorylation of two set of protein of about 65-75 and 120-125 kda .
in addition , integrin ligation lead to nuclear translocation of the p50 and p65 subunit of the nf-kappa b transcription factor , to activation of a reporter gene drive by a promoter contain nf-kappa b site , and to increase level of mrna for immediate-early gene , include the cytokine interleukin ( il ) -1 beta .
the tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein and herbimycin a block both integrin -mediated tyrosine phosphorylation and increase in il-1 beta message level , indicate a causal relationship between the two event .
the component tyrosine phosphorylated subsequent to cell adhesion include paxillin , pp125fak , and the sh2 domain contain tyrosine kinase syk .
in contrast , integrin ligation with antibody induce tyrosine phosphorylation of syk but not of fak or paxillin .
in adhering cell , pre-treatment with cytochalasin d suppress tyrosine phosphorylation of fak and paxillin but not of syk , while il-1 beta message induction be unaffected .
these observation indicate that the syk tyrosine kinase may be an important component of an integrin signaling pathway in monocytic cell , lead to activation of nf-kappa b and to increase level of cytokine message .
constitutive nuclear nf-kappa b in cell of the monocyte lineage .
in monocyte , the nuclear factor nf-kappa b have be invoke a an important transcription factor in the expression of cytokine gene , of cell-surface receptor and in the expression of human immunodeficiency virus .
in such cell , dna binding activity of nf-kappa b can be detect without intentional stimulation .
in our study , cell of the human monocytic line mono mac 6 , culture in medium contain fetal-calf serum and low level of lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , also exhibit such ' constitutive ' nf-kappa b , a demonstrate by mobility-shift analysis of nuclear extract .
this nuclear nf-kappa b be still present when contaminant lp be remove by ultrafiltration and when serum be omit .
protein-dna complex of constitutive nf-kappa b be similar in mobility to the lp -induced nf-kappa b and both be recognize by an antibody specific to the p50 subunit of nf-kappa b .
by contrast , treatment of cell with pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) will only block lp -induced nf-kappa b , but not the constitutive bind protein .
use lps-free and serum-free condition , constitutive nf-kappa b can be detect in different cell line of the monocytic lineage ( hl60 , u937 , thp-1 , mono mac 1 and mono mac 6 ) , but not in molt 4 t cell or k562 stem cell .
when order accord to stage of maturation , the amount of constitutive nf-kappa b be not increase in more mature cell line .
furthermore , when induce differentiation in mono mac 6 cell , with vitamin d3 , no change in constitutive or inducible nf-kappa b can be detect .
analysis of primary cell reveal substantial constitutive nf-kappa b -binding activity in blood monocyte , pleural macrophage and alveolar macrophage .
the constitutive nf-kappa b appear to be functionally active , since a low level of tumour necrosis factor ( tnf ) transcript be detectable in monocyte , and this level can be increase by block transcript degradation use cycloheximide .
the level of constitutive nf-kappa b in these cell be variable and be frequently find to be low in the more mature macrophage .
constitutive nf-kappa b be not maintain by autocrine action of cytokine tnf , interleukin 6 , interleukin 10 , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor or macrophage colony-stimulating factor , since neutralize antibody do not reduce constitutive dna-binding activity .
furthermore , blockade of prostaglandin or leukotriene biosynthesis do not affect constitutive nf-kappa b .
( abstract truncate at 400 word )
human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 tax protein abrogate interleukin-2 dependence in a mouse t-cell line .
human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) be the etiologic agent of adult t-cell leukemia .
tax , the viral protein , be think to be crucial in the development of the disease , since it transform healthy t cell in vitro and induce tumor in transgenic animal .
we examine the effect of tax activity on the growth of the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) -dependent t-cell line ctll-2 .
stable expression of tax in ctll-2 transform cell growth from be il-2 dependent to il-2 independent .
tax stimulate transcription through nf-kappab and the cyclic amp -responsive element-like sequence in the htlv-1 promoter .
the finding of tax mutant segregate these two pathway suggest that the nf-kappab pathway be essential for il-2 -independent growth of ctll-2 cell while the cre pathway be unnecessary .
however , both pathway be necessary for another transformation-related activity ( colony formation in soft agar ) of ctll-2/ tax .
our result show that tax have at least two distinct activity on t cell , and suggest that tax play a crucial role in il-2 -independent t-cell transformation induce by htlv-1 , in addition to it well-known il-2 -dependent cell transformation .
the cytoplasmic domain of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) receptor alpha subunit be essential for both gm-csf -mediated growth and differentiation .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) regulate differentiation , survival , and proliferation of colony-forming unit-granulocyte-macrophage progenitor cell .
the biologic action of gm-csf be mediate by bind to a specific receptor consist of two chain designate a alpha and beta subunit .
we have demonstrate that the murine fdc-p1-derived cell line wt-19 transfected with the human gm-csf receptor alpha and beta subunit ( gm-csfr alpha and beta ) can be induce to differentiate by the addition of human gm-csf ( hgm-csf ) .
by express a series of gm-csfralpha mutant in wt19 cell , we have determine the amino acid domain of the gm-csfralpha cytoplasmic domain that regulate cell differentiation , proliferation , and survival .
we find that the membrane proximal proline-rich domain and adjacent 16 residue be essential for both hgm-csf -dependent cell proliferation and differentiation .
in contrast , the c-terminal region of the gm-csfralpha cytoplasmic domain be not necessary for cell differentiation mediate by hgm-csf , but the removal of this region severely impair the ability of hgm-csf to support cell survival .
while the activation of jak2 , shc , erk , and stat5 protein correlate with hgm-csf -mediated cell growth , cellular differentiation occur in the absence of activation of these signal transduction pathway .
the role of nuclear factor-kappa b in cytokine gene regulation .
transcription factor be dna-binding protein that regulate gene expression .
nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be a critical transcription factor for maximal expression of many cytokine that be involve in the pathogenesis of inflammatory disease , such a adult respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) and sepsis syndrome .
activation and regulation of nf-kappa b be tightly control by a group of inhibitory protein ( i kappa b ) that sequester nf-kappa b in the cytoplasm of immune/inflammatory effector cell .
nf-kappa b activation involve signal phosphorylation , ubiquitination , and proteolysis of i kappa b .
liberate nf-kappa b migrate to the nucleus , where it bind to specific promoter site and activate gene transcription .
the activation of nf-kappa b initiate both extracellular and intracellular regulatory event that result in autoregulation of the inflammatory cascade through modulation of nf-kappa b activation .
recently , activation of nf-kappa b have be link to ards and have be show to be a critical proximal step in the initiation of neutrophilic inflammation in animal model .
activation of nf-kappa b can be inhibit in vivo by treatment with antioxidant , corticosteroid , and the induction of endotoxin tolerance .
identification of more specific and efficacious inhibitor of nf-kappa b activation might prove beneficial for the treatment of cytokine-mediated inflammatory disease .
stable expression of hb24 , a diverged human homeobox gene , in t lymphocyte induce gene involve in t cell activation and growth .
a diverged homeobox gene , hb24 , which be know to be induce follow lymphocyte activation , be introduce into jurkat t cell under the control of a constitutive promoter .
stable transfectants of hb24 be establish that express high level of hb24 mrna and possess an altered phenotype suggestive of activate t cell .
a number of gene know to be induce follow t cell activation and associate with cell growth be increase in the transfectants , include c-fos , c-myc , c-myb , hla-dr , lck , nf-kappa b , interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 receptor alpha ( il-2r alpha ) .
analysis of il-2r alpha expression by transient transfection of il-2r alpha promoter construct into the hb24 transfectants reveal constitutive expression ( about 60 % of phytohemagglutinin- and phorbol ester- activated jurkat cell ) that be dependent on the kappa b site in the il-2r alpha promoter .
furthermore , a a consequence of the increase hb24 mrna level , the jurkat hb24 transfectants proliferate more rapidly than control cell line .
thus , stable expression of hb24 confer an activation phenotype on a human t cell line , implicate this gene a an important transcriptional factor during t cell activation and growth .
cellular immune and cytokine pathway result in tissue factor expression and relevance to septic shock .
cell of monocyte lineage serve a effector cell in the cellular immune response .
in addition , they respond to lp and cytokine with activation and expression of inflammatory effector gene product similar to those elicit by the antigen driven response .
the response to antigen proceed at the t helper cell level through two independent form of cellular collaboration , contact and lymphokine .
we review the control of expression of the tissue factor ( tf ) gene and the function of the tf protein .
the enhance initiation of transcription of the tf gene appear to require engagement of a 56 bp lp response element , an enhancer that be engage by both ap-1 type heterodimeric complex as well a nf kappa b like heterodimeric complex .
dissociation of nf kappa b from ig kappa b by cytokine and lp stimulation , and possibly activate t cell , may represent a common pathway to induction of the tf and other inflammatory gene .
enhancement of expression of tf be observe upon adhesion of mo to endothelial cell and extracellular matrix protein , as well a upon engagement of leukocyte integrins .
the biological effect that follow from expression of tf by vascular cell have be resolve by analysis of function aid by the use of recombinant full length tf and truncate surface domain of tf .
the rule of assembly of the cognate ligand of tf , namely the zymogen plasma factor vii and the serine protease factor viia , with the soluble surface domain of tf in free solution , in the presence of phospholipid surface and cell surface and of the anchor tf molecule have be describe .
it be evident that assembly of the surface domain of tf with viia to form the binary tf.viia complex induce a significant increase in the kcat of the catalytic domain of viia for small peptidyl substrate and more profoundly for protein substrate .
this provide substantial evidence for an allosteric effect on the catalytic cleft of viia that be impart by bind to tf , it cognate catalytic cofactor .
it be also evident that the tf.viia complex be proteolytically active and can activate the zymogen plasma factor x to the serine protease xa in free solution , infer that extend substrate recognition by induce structural locus of the tf.viia complex be create from either or both protein to constitute a new recognition structure .
it be also evident that association of x with charged phospholipid surface enhance the proteolytic activation of this zymogen by increase recognition and susceptibility of the sessile peptide bond deduce from the markedly decrease km and increase kcat .
tnfalpha cooperate with the protein kinase a pathway to synergistically increase hiv-1 ltr transcription via downstream tre-like camp response element .
activate protein-1 ( ap-1 ) binding tpa responsive element ( tre ) be located downstream of the transcription initiation site in the u5 region of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
these downstream sequence element , term dse , can bind both ap-1 and creb/atf transcription factor .
recently , we demonstrate that the dse be also camp-responsive element ( cre ) , since they mediate activation signal elicit by cholera toxin ( ctx ) , a potent activator of the camp-dependent protein kinase a ( pka ) signal transduction pathway .
in the present study , we demonstrate that the hiv-1 dse can mediate the transcriptional synergy elicit by the combination of ctx and tnfalpha .
ctx combine with tnfalpha or il-1beta to produce a synergistic increase in p24 antigen production in u1 promonocytic cell .
transfection study of ltr reporter construct indicate that mutation of the dse site abrogate the ltr -mediated synergy induce by ctx and tnfalpha , whereas the synergy induce by ctx and il-1beta be unaffected , suggest tnfalpha and il-1beta cooperate differently with the camp /pka activation pathway to induce hiv-1 expression in u1 cell .
because the dse be also tre site , we assess the effect of the agonist combination on ap-1 -dependent transcription .
tnfalpha as well a il-1beta cooperate with ctx to produce a synergistic activation of ap-1 -mediated transcription .
these data indicate that the tre -like camp-responsive dse site within the 5'-untranslated leader can mediate the transcriptional cooperativity between tnfalpha and the camp /pka pathway .
since the dse and tre site can not bind creb/atf homodimers , we propose a mechanism in which the hiv-1 dse bind heterodimers compose of both ap-1 and creb/atf protein .
copyright 1997 academic press .
autoregulation of the nf-kappa b transactivator rela ( p65 ) by multiple cytoplasmic inhibitor contain ankyrin motif .
rela ( p65 ) function a the critical transactivating component of the heterodimeric p50- p65 nf-kappa b complex and contain a high-affinity bind site for it cytoplasmic inhibitor , i kappa b alpha .
after cellular activation , i kappa b alpha be rapidly degrade in concert with the induce nuclear translocation of nf-kappa b .
the present study demonstrate that tumor necrosis factor alpha -induced degradation of i kappa b alpha in human t cell be precede by it rapid phosphorylation in vivo .
however , these effect on i kappa b alpha result in nuclear mobilization of only a fraction of the entire cytoplasmic pool of rela .
subsequent study have reveal that ( i ) cytoplasmic rela be stably associate not only with i kappa b alpha but also with other ankyrin motif-rich protein include the product of the nf-kappa b2 ( p100 ) and nf-kappa b1 ( p105 ) gene ; ( ii ) in contrast to rela -i kappa b alpha , rela -p100 cytoplasmic complex be not dissociate follow tumor necrosis factor alpha activation ; ( iii ) p100 function a a potent inhibitor of rela -mediated transcription in vivo ; ( iv ) the interaction of rela and p100 involve the conserve rel homology domain of both protein but not the nuclear localization signal of rela , which be require for i kappa b alpha binding ; ( v ) p100 inhibition of rela function require the c-terminal ankyrin motif domain , which mediate cytoplasmic retention of rela ; and ( vi ) a observe with i kappa b alpha , nuclear rela stimulate p100 mrna and protein expression .
these finding thus reveal the presence of a second inducible autoregulated inhibitory pathway that help ensure the rapid but transient action of nuclear nf-kappa b .
x-ray -induced secretion of cellular factor ( s ) that enhance ( s ) hiv-1 promoter transcription in various non-irradiated transfected cell line .
various cellular stress agent like ionize radiation exposure could activate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-_1 ) replication or reporter gene expression .
in addition , extracellular factor ( s ) release by x-ray-treated human colonic carcinoma cell line ( ht29 ) might activate the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) of hiv-1 in non-irradiated ht29 cell .
in the present report we show that in various transiently or stably transfected cell line , x-ray irradiation up-regulates hiv-1 ltr transcription through the kappab regulatory element .
a factor ( s ) , which be process by and act upon a variety of cell type , be detect by addition to non-irradiated cell of either x-ray -treated cell or a conditioned medium take from irradiated culture .
the magnitude of responsiveness be cell type dependent .
in addition , x-ray activation of hiv-1 ltr in transiently or stably transfected cell line be inhibit by a potent antioxidant drug , pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and by another drug , know for it role in the trapping of growth factor , suramin .
the importance of these observation in the pathophysiology of patient with aids-related cancer treat by radiotherapy remain to be establish .
coactivation by oca-b : definition of critical region and synergism with general cofactor .
molecular dissection of the b-cell-specific transcription coactivator oca-b have reveal distinct region important , respectively , for recruitment to immunoglobulin promoter through interaction with octamer-bound oct-1 and for subsequent coactivator function .
further analysis of general coactivator requirement show that selective removal of pc4 from the essential usa fraction severely impair oct-1 and oca-b function in a cell-free system reconstitute with partially purify factor .
full activity can be restore by the combined action of recombinant pc4 and the pc4 -depleted usa fraction , thus suggest a joint requirement for pc4 and another , usa-derived component ( s ) for optimal function of oct-1 /oca-b in the reconstituted system .
indeed , usa-derived pc2 be find to act synergistically with pc4 in reproduce the function of intact usa in the assay system .
consistent with the requirement for pc4 in the reconstituted system , oca-b be find to interact directly with pc4 .
surprisingly , however , removal of pc4 from the unfractionated nuclear extract have no detrimental effect on oca-b / oct-1 -dependent transcription .
these result lead to a general model for the synergistic function of activation domain in oct-1 and oca-b ( mediate by the combined action of the multiple usa component ) and , far , suggest a functional redundancy in general coactivators .
lack of t-cell-mediated recognition of the fusion region of the pml/rar-alpha hybrid protein by lymphocyte of acute promyelocytic leukemia patient .
in previous study , it be show that the fusion region of the pml/rar-alpha protein , express by acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) cell , can be specifically recognize in vitro by donor ( d. e. ) cd4 t cell in a hla class ii dr11-restricted fashion .
we present here the result on the recognition of several pml/rar-alpha peptide by apl patient express hla dr11 .
the in vitro immunization of peripheral blood lymphocyte from four patient in remission ( s.r. , f.r. , m.m. , p. g. ) with bcr1/25 , a 25-mer pml/ rar-alpha , do not elicit either a polyclonal or a clonal immune response specific to the peptide .
we then generate new donor anti-pml/ rar-alpha cd4(+) t-cell clone .
these clone be test for their recognition of bcr1/25 .
one clone ( c3/5 , cd3(+) , cd4(+) , cd8(-) ) be select for further analysis .
clone c3/5 show specific proliferation , cytotoxicity , and cytokine ( tumor necrosis factor alpha , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ) production when challenge with autologous lymphoblastic cell line pulse with peptide bcr1/25 .
c3/5 cell develop specific proliferation and cytotoxicity when challenge with peptide-pulsed lymphoblastic cell line and peripheral blood lymphocyte from the four dr11(+) apl patient .
apl blast , available only from patient f.r. and p.g. , be not lysed by c3/5 and be unable to present peptide bcr1/25 .
incubation of apl cell with ifn-gamma fail to induce hla class ii molecule and recognition by the c3/5 clone .
since apl cell do not express hla class ii molecule , we test in two donor ( d.e. and c.h.r. ) and in patient s.r. and p.g. whether the use of 9-mer peptide ( bcr1/9 ) would generate a cd8 /hla class i -restricted response .
no peptide-specific t-cell line or clone could be generate from both donor and patient .
these finding be discuss in relation to possible therapeutic approach to the immunotherapy of apl .
c-jun and gst-pi expression in human plasma cell .
bone marrow sample from 33 patient affect by mm and mgus , and 8 patient not affect by lymphoproliferative disease be study for expression of c-jun ( a component of the transcription factor ap-1 ) and glutathione-s-transferase pi ( gst-pi ) use immunocytochemical method .
a high and frequent expression of these two protein be find both in mm and mgus patient ( 31/33 patient positive for c-jun and 29/33 patient positive for gst-pi ) and in control not affect by monoclonal gammopathy ( 7/8 patient positive for both c-jun and gst-pi ) .
no statistically significant correlation be find between c-jun- and gst-pi- positive plasma cell .
the expression of these two protein be not related to clinical or laboratory data .
our result seem to confirm a possible role of the transcriptional complex ap-1 in activate gst-pi promoter in human plasma cell .
the use of interferon-gamma-treated u937 cell in chemiluminescence assay to detect red cell , platelet and granulocyte antibody of potential clinical significance .
the chemiluminescent ( cl ) response of interferon-gamma-treated u937 ( ifn-u937 ) cell to sensitize target cell have be use to detect red cell , platelet and granulocyte antibody .
a clone of u937 cell be select which express fc receptor i ( fc gamma ri ) and which , after incubation with ifn-gamma for 72 h , be capable of generate high level of lucigenin-enhanced cl .
the cl response of ifn-u937 cell and peripheral blood human monocyte to sensitize red cell , platelet or granulocyte be then compare .
assay use monocyte or ifn-u937 cell be of comparable sensitivity for detection of antibody against all three type of target cell .
in addition , the use of ifn-u937 cell reduce interassay variation and simplified assay performance .
the potential clinical usefulness of these cl assay be suggest by the ability of both monocyte and ifn-u937 cell to respond to red cell , platelet or granulocyte sensitize with serum from pregnant woman whose baby have either haemolytic disease of the newborn ( hdn ) , alloimmune thrombocytopenia or alloimmune neutropenia respectively .
in addition , monocyte and ifn-u937 cell both respond to red cell sensitize with antibody against a variety of specificity of assume ( although not document ) clinical significance for blood transfusion recipient .
in contrast , monocyte and ifn-u937 cell respond only weakly to red cell sensitize with either anti-d in serum from mother of baby unaffected by hdn , or with antiserum contain high titre antibody with specificity not normally associate with significantly reduce red cell survival .
a novel genetic system to isolate a dominant negative effector on dna-binding activity of oct-2 .
recent study have reveal that interaction between transcription factor play an important role in regulation of gene expression in eukaryotic cell .
to isolate cdna clone that dominantly inhibit the dna-binding activity of oct-2 , choose a a representative factor , we have develop a novel screening system .
this employ an escherichia coli tester strain carry a modify lac operon a a reporter gene , with the lac operator sequence replace by an octamer sequence .
oct-2 express in this tester strain repress the expression of the reporter gene and change the phenotype of the cell from lac+ to lac- .
introduction of a cdna expression library prepare from a human t-cell line into the oct-2 -harboring tester strain allow selection of three lac+ clone out of 1 x 10(5) transformants .
one of them , ht86 , encode a putative zinc finger protein be find to derepress beta-galactosidase activity in the oct-2 -harboring tester strain at the transcriptional level .
in gel mobility shift assay , ht86 attenuate the intensity of the retard band compose of the octamer probe and oct-2 , suggest a dominant negative effect on the dna-binding activity of oct-2 .
the strategy describe here provide a new approach for study protein-protein interaction that govern the complex regulation of gene expression .
repression of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 through the novel cooperation of human factor yy1 and lsf [ publish erratum appear in j virol 1998 feb ; 72 ( 2 ) : 1709 ]
a subpopulation of stably infected cd4+ cell capable of produce virus upon stimulation have be identify in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -positive individual ( t.-w.chun , d.finzi , j.margolick , k.chadwick , d.schwartz , and r.f.siliciano , nat.med.1 : 1284-1290 , 1995 ) .
few host factor that directly limit hiv-1 transcription and could support this state of nonproductive hiv-1 infection have be describe .
yy1 , a widely distribute human transcription factor , be know to inhibit hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) transcription and virus production .
lsf ( also know a lbp-1 , ubp , and cp-2 ) have be show to repress ltr transcription in vitro , but transient expression of lsf have no effect on ltr activity in vivo .
we report that both yy1 and lsf participate in the formation of a complex that recognize the initiation region of the hiv-1 ltr .
far , we have find that these factor cooperate in the repression of ltr expression and viral replication .
this cooperative function may account for the divergent effect of lsf previously observe in vitro and in vivo .
thus , the cooperation of two general cellular transcription factor may allow for the selective downregulation of hiv transcription .
through this mechanism of gene regulation , yy1 and lsf could contribute to the establishment and maintenance of a population of cell stably but nonproductively infect with hiv-1 .
pathogenesis of atherosclerosis .
the early lesion in the development of an atherosclerotic plaque be the fatty streak .
this chronic inflammatory reaction result from a sequence of event that begin with the trapping of low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) in the subendothelial space of the artery wall .
the trap ldl be seed with oxidative specie release by the overlie endothelium , and lipid oxidation be initiate within the ldl particle . some of the lipid that result lead to the activation of nfkb-like transcription factor that cause the expression of gene whose protein product mediate monocyte binding , monocyte chemotaxis into the subendothelial space , and conversion into macrophage .
at least 1 major gene modulate the oxidation of ldl lipid and/or the biologic response to these lipid .
the inverse relation between high density lipoprotein ( hdl ) and atherosclerotic event may in part be due to enzyme associate with hdl that destroy the biologically active lipid generate in ldl .
towards a molecular understanding of t-cell differentiation .
lymphoid differentiation be one of the best study example of mammalian development .
here han clevers and michael owen describe how the cloning of the gene that encode t-cell-specific membrane protein allow the identification of transcription factor that control the expression of these t-cell gene .
such transcription factor play a key role in the development of the mature t-cell phenotype by function a ' master regulator of t-cell differentiation ' .
transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation of c-jun expression during monocytic differentiation of human myeloid leukemic cell .
ap-1 , the polypeptide product of c-jun , recognize and bind to specific dna sequence and stimulate transcription of gene responsive to certain growth factor and phorbol ester such a 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) .
we study the effect of tpa on the regulation of c-jun gene expression in hl-60 cell during monocytic differentiation .
low level of c-jun transcript be detectable in untreated hl-60 leukemic cell , increase significantly by 6 h , and reach near maximal level by 24 h of exposure to 32 nm tpa .
similar kinetics of c-jun induction by tpa be observe in human u-937 and thp-1 monocytic leukemia cell .
similar finding be obtain with bryostatin 1 ( 10 nm ) , another activator of protein kinase c and inducer of monocytic differentiation .
furthermore , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 0.5 microm ) , a structurally distinct agent which also induce hl-60 monocytic differentiation , increase c-jun expression .
tpa treatment of hl-60 cell in the presence of cycloheximide be associate with superinduction of c-jun transcript .
run-on analysis demonstrate detectable level of c-jun gene transcription in untreated hl-60 cell , and that exposure to tpa increase this rate 3.3-fold .
treatment of hl-60 cell with both tpa and cycloheximide have no effect on the rate of c-jun transcription .
the half-life of c-jun rna a determine by treat hl-60 cell with tpa and actinomycin d be 30 min .
in contrast , the half-life of c-jun rna in tpa -treated hl-60 cell expose to cycloheximide and actinomycin d be great than 2 h .
these finding suggest that the increase in c-jun rna observe during tpa -induced monocytic differentiation be mediate by both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanism .
aspirin-like drug can protect human t lymphocyte against benzoquinone cytotoxicity : evidence for a nad(p)h:quinone reductase -dependent mechanism .
benzene toxicity towards lymphocyte be think to be mediate by metabolite of benzene include benzoquinone ( bq ) .
nad(p)h:quinone reductase ( qr ) be know to protect against bq toxicity .
the expression of the qr gene be regulate by the transcription factor ap-1 .
we have previously find that aspirin-like drug ( ald ) induce ap-1 in human t lymphocyte .
it be therefore hypothesize that ald would protect lymphocyte against bq toxicity by induce qr .
molt-4 cell ( m4 ) , a human t lymphocyte cell line , be incubate with different concentration of two ald , flurbiprofen and sodium diclofenac , and then expose to bq .
toxicity be measure by viability ( trypan blue exclusion ) .
both drug protect the cell against bq cytotoxicity in a dose-dependent manner , e.g. , sodium diclofenac at 15 microm reduce the fraction of bq -treated dead cell by 70 % .
alds induce qr activity in the m4 cell in the same range of concentration that protect the cell against bq toxicity .
the protective effect of ald be significantly reduce by dicoumarol , a qr -specific inhibitor .
since human t cell and t cell line do not metabolize arachidonic acid , our data suggest that ald can protect human t lymphocyte against a metabolite of benzene by induction of qr activity .
antisense inhibition of vitamin d receptor expression induce apoptosis in monoblastoid u937 cell .
the active vitamin d3 metabolite 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol ( 1,25(oh)2d3 ) act a an antiproliferative and differentiate agent for the monoblastoid cell line u937 and a an important immunologic mediator implicate particularly in the function of cell belong to the monocyte/macrophage lineage .
these effect be control by the vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) , a member of the steroid hormone receptor family .
the objective of this study be to develop u937 transfectants express antisense vdr mrna , and to use these to examine the role of 1,25(oh)2d3 -vdr interaction in this lineage .
a 2-kb vdr cdna insert ( include the complete vdr coding region ) be clone in an antisense orientation into the ebv episomal vector pmep4 under the control of an inducible promoter and transfected into u937 .
the resultant cell line , dh42 , be hygromycin resistant , contain vdr cdna , express few vdrs than control , and show a substantial decrease in antiproliferative response to 1,25(oh)2d3 .
however , 1,25(oh)2d3 increase the number of cell express macrophage cell surface ag , include cd14 and cd11b .
a subpopulation of small cell do not express the differentiation marker after cadmium stimulation .
cell cycle analysis show shift in the distribution of cell from g1 to s phase , which be more pronounced after cadmium treatment .
a considerable proportion of cell be outside the cycle and dna fragmentation confirm apoptosis .
thus , the functional outcome of the vdr antisense transfection suggest that in the myelomonocytic lineage , vdr expression may act a a protective mechanism against program cell death .
estrogen receptor diminish dna-binding activity of chicken gata-1 and caccc-binding protein .
the estrogen receptor ( er ) repress erythroid differentiation and erythroid-specific gene expression .
in this study , we investigate the effect of er alpha ( refer to throughout a er ) on dna-binding activity of transcription factor involve in regulate the expression of erythroid-specific gene , and , in particular , the histone h5 gene .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , we find that in the presence of rabbit reticulocyte lysate , human er reduce the binding activity of chicken immature erythrocyte nuclear extracted protein to gata and caccc site in the h5 promoter and enhancer .
in contrast , the binding activity of nf1 and sp1 be not affect by er .
binding of er to an estrogen response element be enhance by addition of rabbit reticulocyte lysate .
this lysate be also necessary for er to diminish the dna-binding activity of gata-1 .
these result suggest that additional factor ( s ) be necessary for full er function .
both gata-1 and caccc-binding protein be critical for the developmentally regulate expression of erythroid-specific gene .
we hypothesize that interference in dna-binding activity of gata-1 and caccc-binding protein be the mechanism by which the er inhibit regulation of these gene .
regulation of gm-csf gene transcription by core-binding factor .
gm-csf gene activation in t cell be know to involve the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b , ap-1 , nfat , and sp1 .
here we demonstrate that the human gm-csf promoter and enhancer also encompass bind site for core-binding factor ( cbf ) .
significantly , the cbf site be in each case contain within the minimum essential core region require for inducible activation of transcription .
furthermore , these core region of the enhancer and promoter each encompass closely link bind site for cbf , ap-1 , and nfatp .
the gm-csf promoter cbf site tgtggtca be located 51 bp upstream of the transcription start site and also overlap a yy-1 binding site .
a 2-bp mutation within the cbf site result in a 2-3-fold decrease in the activity of both a 69-bp proximal promoter fragment and a 627-bp full-length promoter fragment .
stepwise deletion into the proximal promoter also reveal that the cbf site , but not the yy-1 site , be require for efficient induction of transcriptional activation .
the aml1 and cbf beta gene that encode cbf each have the ability to influence cell growth and differentiation and have be implicate a proto-oncogene in acute myeloid leukemia .
this study add gm-csf to a grow list of cytokine and receptor that be regulate by cbf and which control the growth , differentiation , and activation of hemopoietic cell .
the gm-csf locus may represent one of several target gene that be dysregulated in acute myeloid leukemia .
glucocorticoid receptor characteristic in monocyte of patient with corticosteroid -resistant bronchial asthma .
the mechanism of corticosteroid resistance in bronchial asthma have be study by determine the rank order of potency for different corticosteroid in inhibit the generation of a 3 kd molecule from peripheral blood monocyte isolate from corticosteroid-sensitive ( cs ) and corticosteroid-resistant ( cr ) asthmatic subject , which augment leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) generation by human neutrophil ( pmn ) stimulate by calcium ionophore .
in addition , bind study with ( 3h ) dexamethasone have be perform to determine the dissociation constant ( kd ) and receptor number ( ro ) in the monocyte of these two group of subject .
the concentration of corticosteroid produce 50 % inhibition ( ic50 ) be 600 nm , 70 nm , and 0.5 nm for hydrocortisone , methylprednisolone , and dexamethasone , respectively , in monocyte from cs individual .
there be only weak inhibition of the generation of enhancing activity by the corticosteroid in the cr asthmatic individual .
the dexamethasone kd be 2.45 +/- 0.58 nm ( mean +/- sem , n = 6 ) in the cs group and 1.6 +/- 0.35 nm ( mean +/- sem , n = 6 ) in the cr group of patient ( p = 0.14 ) .
the ro in the cs group be 3,605 +/- 984 bind site per nucleus ( mean +/- sem , n = 6 ) and 4,757 +/- 692 bind site per nucleus ( mean +/- sem , n = 6 ) in the cr group ( p = 0.23 ) .
these finding indicate that corticosteroid resistance in bronchial asthma can not be explain by abnormality in corticosteroid receptor characteristic .
signaling pathway mediate by the tnf- and cytokine- receptor family target a common cis-element of the ifn regulatory factor 1 promoter .
cd40 activation of b cell be strongly influence by the presence of cytokine .
however , the molecular basis for the interplay between these distinct stimulus be not clearly delineate .
ifn regulatory factor 1 ( irf-1 ) be a transcription factor activate by either cd40 or cytokine .
we have find that these different set of signal target a common cis-acting element in the promoter of this gene , the irf-1 gamma -activated site ( gas ) .
targeting of the irf-1 gas be not confine to activation via cd40 but extend to other stimulus that mimic the cd40 signaling cascade , like tnf-alpha and ebv .
in contrast to induction of stats by cytokine , the irf-1 gas -binding complex activate by cd40 , tnf-alpha , or ebv contain rel protein , specifically p50 and p65 .
in this system , simultaneous exposure to cd40l together with either il-4 or ifn-gamma do not lead to the activation of novel rel/stat complex .
give the importance of irf-1 in a variety of biologic function from proliferation to apoptosis , our finding support the notion that modulation of irf-1 level may be a critical control point in b cell activation .
activation of a novel serine /threonine kinase that phosphorylates c-fos upon stimulation of t and b lymphocyte via antigen and cytokine receptor .
ligation of ag receptor in t and b lymphocyte initiate signal transduction cascade which alter the expression of gene that regulate cellular proliferation and differentiation .
the transmission of signal from the membrane to the nucleus be mediate principally through the action of protein tyrosine and serine/threonine kinase .
we have identify and characterize a novel serine /threonine kinase that phosphorylated the proto-oncogene product , c-fos , and be term fo kinase .
fo kinase be rapidly activate after ligation of the cd3 and cd2 receptor in jurkat and normal human t lymphocyte and in response to il-6 and anti-igm in the human b cell line af10 and ramos , respectively .
the phorbol ester , pma , be also a potent inducer of fo kinase activity in all of the above population , suggest that pkc play a role in the regulation of this enzyme .
fo kinase phosphorylates c-fos at a site near the c-terminus , as well a a peptide derive from this region ( residue 359-370 , rkgsssnepssd ) , and fo peptide competitively inhibit c-fos phosphorylation .
fo kinase be show to be distinct from other identify serine /threonine kinase , include protein kinase a , protein kinase c , casein kinase ii , map kinase , p70s6k and p90rsk .
fo kinase be purify by anion exchange chromatography and exhibit an apparent m(r) = 65,000 and isoelectric point = 6.1 .
fo kinase may play a role in transcriptional regulation through it capacity to phosphorylate c-fos at a site require for expression of the transcriptional transrepressive activity of this molecule .
moreover , it rapid activation suggest it may have a wide role within signal transduction cascade in lymphocyte .
the epstein-barr virus -encoded nuclear antigen ebna-5 accumulate in pml-containing body .
ebna-5 be one of the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -encoded nuclear protein require for immortalization of human b lymphocyte .
in the nucleus of ebv-transformed lymphoblastoid cell line ebna-5 be preferentially targetted to distinct nuclear focus .
previously we have show ( w.q. jiang , l.szekely , v.wendel-hansen , n.ringertz , g.klein , and a. rosen , exp.cell re .
cyclic amp -responsive element -dependent activation of epstein-barr virus zebra promoter by human herpesvirus 6 .
we have recently show that infection of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) genome-positive b cell by human herpesvirus 6 ( hhv-6 ) result in the expression of the immediate-early ebv zebra gene , follow by virus replication ( l.flamand , i.stefanescu , d.v.ablashi , and j.menezes , j.virol.67 : 6768-6777 , 1993 ) .
here we show that hhv-6 upregulates zebra gene transcription through a cyclic amp -responsive element ( cre ) located within the zebra promoter ( zp ) .
use human b- or t- cell line transfected with zpcat reporter gene construct , we demonstrate that a region designate the zii domain of zp be the target of hhv-6 transactivation .
mutation of the consensus ap-1/ cre site within zii abolish the inducibility of zp by hhv-6 , whereas positioning of the zii domain upstream of the beta-globin minimal promoter confer responsiveness follow hhv-6 infection .
binding of these factor to zii be prevent by oligonucleotides contain cre but not by ap-1 consensus sequence .
antibody against cre -binding ( creb ) protein but not against c-fos or c-jun be able to supershift the dna-protein complex , identify the nature of the transcription factor which bind to zii a a member of the creb family of protein .
finally , transfection of creb protein and protein kinase a expression vector be find to activate zp in jurkat cell , suggest that phosphorylated form of creb protein can play a determining role in the ebv reactivation process .
inhibition of hiv-1 latency reactivation by dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) and an analog of dhea .
the initial infection with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) in most individual usually result in the establishment of a latent or chronic infection before eventual progression toward acquire immunodeficiency syndrome .
hiv-1 can also establish a latent or persistent infection in some t cell line that show minimal constitutive virus expression .
however , activation of the t cell line lead to enhance hiv-1 replication can be induce by antigen , mitogen , and cytokine ( tumor necrosis factor alpha [ tnf-alpha ] , interleukin 1 , and interleukin-2 ) .
various gene product from other virus ( htlv-1 , hsv , ebv , cmv , hbv , and hhv-6 ) can also enhance hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) -driven reporter gene activity .
on the basis of these observation , it have be propose that reactivation of latent hiv-1 harbor in chronically infected t lymphocyte , monocyte , or macrophage play an important role in the pathogenesis of aid .
so far , there be no drug or therapy available that can provide protection against hiv-1 latency reactivation .
ach-2 , derive from a human t cell line ( cem ) , be chronically infect with hiv-1 , with low level of constitutive virus expression .
ach-2 can be convert to productive infection by stimulation of the cell with 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) , mitogen or cytokine ( tnf-alpha ) , or infection with hsv .
therefore the ach-2 cell line be a good candidate for study the effect of drug on hiv-1 activation .
previously , we have report that dhea and synthetic analog of dhea can be modest inhibitor of hiv-1 iiib replication in phytohemagglutinin-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocyte culture .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
identification of the tcl1 gene involve in t-cell malignancy .
the tcl1 locus on chromosome 14q32.1 be frequently involve in chromosomal translocation and inversion with one of the t-cell receptor locus in human t-cell leukemia and lymphoma .
the chromosome 14 region translocate or rearrange involve approximately 350 kb of dna at chromosome band 14q32.1 .
within this region we have identify a gene cod for a 1.3-kb transcript , express only in restricted subset of cell within the lymphoid lineage and express at high level in leukemic cell carry a t(14;14) (q11;q32) chromosome translocation or a inv(14)(q11;q32) chromosome inversion .
the cognate cdna sequence reveal an open reading frame of 342 nt encode a protein of 14 kda .
the tcl1 gene sequence , which , to our knowledge , show no sequence homology with other human gene , be preferentially express early in t- and b- lymphocyte differentiation .
involvement of an saf-like transcription factor in the activation of serum amyloid a gene in monocyte/macrophage cell by lipopolysaccharide .
serum amyloid a ( saa ) have be link to atherosclerosis because of it ability to remodel high-density lipoprotein by the depletion of apolipoprotein a1 , it ability to bind cholesterol , and it presence in the atherosclerotic plaque of coronary and carotid artery .
in the present study , we investigate the induction mechanism of saa gene in thp-1 monocyte/macrophage cell which play a critical role in the development of atherosclerotic fatty streak and plaque formation .
we and others have show that saa gene be induce in monocyte/macrophage cell by lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
by promoter function analysis , we show that the saa promoter sequence between -280 and -226 can confer lp responsiveness .
gel electrophoretic mobility shift assay detect an induce dna-binding activity in these cell in response to lp .
characterization of the dna-binding protein by uv cross-linking , southwestern blot , and antibody ablation/supershift assay reveal that it be similar to a recently report nuclear factor designate saf .
these result demonstrate that lp -mediated saa gene induction in monocyte/macrophage cell be primarily due to the induction of saf activity .
expression of a-myb , but not c-myb and b-myb , be restricted to burkitt 's lymphoma , sig+ b-acute lymphoblastic leukemia , and a subset of chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
the a-myb gene encode a transcription factor that be related both functionally and structurally to the v-myb oncogene .
follow our observation that a-myb be express in a restricted subset of normal mature human b lymphocyte , with the phenotype cd38+ , cd39- , slgm- , we have now investigate the pattern of a-myb expression in neoplastic b cell representating the whole spectrum of b-cell differentiation and compare it to that of c-myb and b-myb .
in a panel of 32 b-cell line , a-myb be very strongly express in most burkitt 's lymphoma ( bl ) cell line , but weak or negative in 2 pre-b acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) , 4 non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) , 6 epstein-barr virus-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell line , and 6 myeloma line .
protein expression parallel that of the rna .
we have also investigate a-myb expression in 49 fresh case of b leukemia .
among 24 all , 6 be of the null and 11 of the common type and all these be negative for a-myb expression ; on the other hand , all 7 b- all case ( slg+ ) , as well a one fresh bl case with bone marrow infiltration , express a-myb .
a-myb be undetectable in 4 prolymphocytic leukemia ( pll ) but be strongly express in 5/20 ( 25 % ) of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) sample .
in the latter a-myb do not correlate with phenotype or clinical stage .
finally , we have study the progression of one case of cll into richter 's syndrome and have find that the richter 's cell express about 25-fold less a-myb rna than the cll cell from the same patient . the pattern of c-myb and b-myb be clearly distinct from that of a-myb .
c-myb and b-myb be express in all neoplastic group , except in cll cell .
thus , a-myb expression , unlike that of c-myb and b-myb , be restricted to a subset of b-cell neoplasia ( in particular bl and slg+b- all ) representative of a specific stage of b-cell differentiation .
this expression may in part reflect expression of a-myb by the normal germinal center b cell that be the normal counterpart of these transform b cell .
the data present strongly support a role for this transcription factor in b-cell differentiation and perhaps in b-cell transformation in some neoplasia .
role of hiv-1 nef expression in activation pathway in cd4 + t cell .
the role of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) nef protein in t cell activation pathway be investigate use a jurkat cd4 + cell line stably transfected with a nef expression vector .
secretion of il-2 and tnf-alpha , surface expression of il-2r , and dna-binding activity of nf-kappa b and ap-1 ( fos/jun ) complex in response to phorbol myristate acetate , tnf-alpha , or immobilize antibody to cd3 be monitor .
these parameter be not modify by nef expression in jurkat cell , whereas stimulation with the same stimulus result in partial inhibition of ltr activation in nef + jurkat cell .
this inhibition be not mediate through nef phosphorylation on thr-15 or gtp -binding activity because mutation in critical site do not alter this inhibition .
analysis of truncate ltrs confirm that inhibition of ltr activation be not mediate through nf-kappa b -binding activity but through the region contain the negative respond element ( nres ) .
these result suggest that nef downmodulates ltr activation without significantly inhibit the capacity of t cell to respond to immunological activation .
transcription factor jun-b be target of autoreactive t-cells in iddm .
target antigen define by autoantibody in iddm include insulin , a putative glycolipid that react with islet cell antibody , and a 64,000-m(r) protein recently identify a glutamic acid decarboxylase .
in addition , some iddm serum that contain antibody to glutamic acid decarboxylase also coprecipitate a 38,000-m(r) protein from islet .
this study use a high titer anti-38,000-m(r) serum to screen bacteriophage lambda cdna expression library and identify human islet and placental clone encode jun-b , the nuclear transcription protein , of predict 38,000 m(r) .
peripheral blood t-cells exhibit significant proliferation in response to a recombinant fragment of jun-b ( amino acid 1-180 ) in 12 of 17 ( 71 % ) recent-onset iddm subject , 8 of 16 ( 50 % ) ica-positive first-degree relative of iddm subject who be at risk , 3 of 12 ( 25 % ) other autoimmune disease subject , and 0 of 10 healthy control subject .
proliferation to tetanus toxoid do not differ significantly between the group .
response to jun-b be not related to age , sex , or human leukocyte antigen status .
thus , autoreactive t-cells identify a novel antigen , p38 jun-b , in iddm and appear to indicate subject at risk for the development of clinical disease .
a 3' --> 5' xpb helicase defect in repair/transcription factor tfiih of xeroderma pigmentosum group b affect both dna repair and transcription .
xpb be a subunit of the basal transcription factor tfiih , which be also involve in nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) and potentially in cell cycle regulation .
a frameshift mutation in the 3'-end of the xpb gene be responsible for a concurrence of two disorder : xeroderma pigmentosum ( xp ) and cockayne 's syndrome ( c ) .
we have isolate tfiih from cell derive from a patient ( xp11be ) who carry this frameshift mutation ( tfiihmut ) and from the mother of this patient ( tfiihwt ) to determine the biochemical consequence of the mutation .
although identical in composition and stoichiometry to tfiihwt , tfiihmut show a reduce 3' --> 5' xpb helicase activity .
a decrease in helicase and dna-dependent atpase activity be also observe with the mutate recombinant xpb protein .
the xpb mutation cause a severe ner defect .
in addition , we provide evidence for a decrease in basal transcription activity in vitro .
the latter defect may provide an explanation for many of the xp and c symptom that be difficult to rationalize base solely on an ner defect .
thus , this work present the first detailed analysis of a naturally occur mutation in a basal transcription factor and support the concept that the combined xp/ c clinical entity be actually the result of a combined transcription/repair deficiency .
rel be rapidly tyrosine-phosphorylated follow granulocyte-colony stimulating factor treatment of human neutrophil .
stimulation of neutrophil with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor ( g-csf ) result in an enhance respiratory burst , prolonged survival , and increase tumor cell killing .
the effect of g-csf be mediate by bind to specific , high affinity receptor .
g-csf receptor lack intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity , but activation of the receptor result in the rapid induction of tyrosine kinase activity .
antiphosphotyrosine immunoblots of whole cell lysates prepare from neutrophil show that the g-csf rapidly induce prominent tyrosine phosphorylation of a protein of a relative molecular mass of 80 kda .
use monospecific antibody , the 80-kda tyrosine -phosphorylated protein have be show to be p80c-rel , a proto-oncogene belong to a family of transcriptional regulator which include nf-kb .
the induction of tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel be unique to g-csf in that granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor which also stimulate neutrophil and induce tyrosine phosphorylation do not result in tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel .
the consequence of p80c-rel tyrosine phosphorylation be not yet know ; however , tyrosine -phosphorylated p80c-rel be capable of bind to dna , and g-csf stimulation result in an increase in the amount of p80c-rel which bind to dna .
these result demonstrate that one of the first biochemical event which occur in neutrophil follow g-csf stimulation , activation of a tyrosine kinase , lead directly to the tyrosine phosphorylation of p80c-rel .
thus , the tyrosine kinase activate by g-csf appear to directly transduce a signal to a protein which function a a transcriptional regulator .
multiple prolactin-responsive element mediate g1 and s phase expression of the interferon regulatory factor-1 gene .
the interferon regulatory factor-1 ( irf-1 ) gene be both an immediate-early g1 phase gene and an s phase gene inducible by prl in rat nb2 t lymphocyte .
to understand the mechanism by which prl regulate the biphasic expression of irf-1 , we clone the rat irf-1 gene and functionally characterize the irf-1 promoter .
upon transfection into nb2 t cell , 1.7 kilobases ( kb ) of irf-1 5'-flanking dna link to a chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) reporter gene mediate a 30-fold induction of cat enzyme activity in response to 24 h of prl stimulation .
deletion mutant contain 1.3 , 0.6 , and 0.2 kb 5'-flanking dna be incrementally less transcriptionally active , although 0.2 kb still mediate a 12-fold induction by prl .
the sequence between -1.7 and -0.2 kb link to a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter fail to respond to prl stimulation , suggest that the activity of upstream prl response element may require an interaction with promoter-proximal element .
by assay cat enzyme activity across a 24-h prl induction time course , we be able to assign g1 vs. s phase prl response of the irf-1 gene to different region of the irf-1 5'-flanking and promoter dna .
the 0.2-kb irf- cat construct be induce by prl stimulation during the g1 phase of the cell cycle .
in contrast , the 1.7-kb irf- cat construct be inducible by prl during both g1 and s phase of the cell cycle .
hence , the prl -induced biphasic expression of the irf-1 gene appear to be control by separate prl -responsive element : element in the first 0.2 kb of the irf-1 promoter region act during early activation , and element between 0.2 and 1.7 kb act in concert with the proximal 0.2-kb region during s phase progression .
rel/nf-kappa b transcription factor and the control of apoptosis .
the process of apoptosis be use to eliminate unwanted cell from a wide variety of organism .
various extracellular signal , often converge in common intracellular pathway , can induce apoptosis in a cell-type-specific fashion .
recent work from several laboratory have demonstrate that rel/nf-kappa b transcription factor regulate apoptosis in many cell type .
in most cell , rel/nf-kappa b transcription factor appear to mediate survival signal that protect cell from apoptosis ; however , under some circumstance , activation of these factor may also promote apoptosis .
adenovirus e1b 19k protein be require for efficient dna replication in u937 cell .
the adenovirus e1b 19k gene play an essential role in transformation of primary rodent cell in cooperation with e1a and in the inhibition of apoptosis during lytic infection .
it have be show that this e1b 19k protein be not necessary for viral dna replication in human cell line , such a hela and kb .
we report here that the e1b 19k mutant virus be unable to replicate efficiently in a monocyte cell line , u937 .
viral dna synthesis and late gene expression be find to be defective in u937 cell infect with e1b 19k mutant compare with wild-type virus .
early viral rna splicing pattern also differ between wild-type and dl337-infected cell .
furthermore , the defect in viral replication could be complement by dl312 virus defective in e1a expression 4 day after infection with e1b mutant , suggest persistence of the e1b mutant genome in the infected cell despite defective onset of the late phase of replication .
these result imply that e1b 19k be require for efficient viral dna replication in u937 cell .
inefficient dna replication be also find in another monocyte cell line , thp-1
mitogen stimulation of t-cells increase c-fos and c-jun protein level , ap-1 binding and ap-1 transcriptional activity .
we have analyse the effect of mitogenic lectin on c-fos and c-jun protein level as well a on activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) binding and enhancer activity in jurkat t-cells .
both c-fos and c-jun protein level be increase after con a and pha stimulation .
since t-cell stimulation increase both intracellular ca2+ and camp level and activate protein kinase c ( pkc ) , the possible involvement of these intracellular messenger in c-fos and c-jun induction be test .
pma , which directly activate pkc , mimic the effect of the lectin on c-fos and c-jun , but elevation of either intracellular ca2+ or camp level have little or no effect .
the mitogen-induced increase of c-fos and c-jun immunoreactivity be inhibit by h-7 , a kinase inhibitor with relatively high specificity for pkc , and less efficiently by h-8 , a structurally related kinase inhibitor less active on pkc , but more active on cyclic nucleotide-dependent kinase .
con a stimulation be find to increase both binding of ap-1 to the ap-1 consensus sequence , tre , and ap-1 enhancer activity , in jurkat cell .
pma be also find to increase the ap-1 enhancer activity , whereas elevation of ca2+ or camp have only minor effect .
we conclude that stimulation with mitogenic lectin be sufficient to increase both c-fos and c-jun protein level , ap-1 binding and ap-1 enhancer activity in jurkat cell and that they act via mechanism that could involve the activation of pkc .
activation of nuclear factor-kappa b by beta-amyloid peptide and interferon-gamma in murine microglia .
an increase body of evidence suggest that amyloid-beta ( a beta ) peptide and microglia be crucially involve in the pathogenesis of alzheimer 's disease .
in an effort to far elucidate the biological effect of a beta towards microglia , we investigate the ability of a beta peptide to activate nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b in the n9 murine microglial cell line .
co-stimulation of microglia with suboptimal concentration of a beta ( 25-35 ) and 100 u/ml ifn gamma result in the detection of a specific nf-kappa b dna-binding activity in nuclear extract , a determine in gel mobility shift assay .
this response require at least 120 min to be evident and supershift experiment reveal that the nf-kappa b complex contain both rela and p50 .
accordingly , immunoblot experiment show that amongst nf-kappa b /rel protein , rela and p50 be mobilize to the nucleus follow microglial cell stimulation with a beta ( 25-35 ) plus ifn gamma .
high concentration of a beta ( 25-35 ) be effective by themselves in induce nf-kappa b activation , both in the n9 microglial cell line and in rat primary microglia , as well a in human monocyte .
for purpose of comparison , microglia be also stimulate with bacterial lp , a known nf-kappa b inducer .
a expect , lp strongly induce the formation of two nf-kappa b dna-binding activity , one of which be identify a rela /p50 .
the lp response be also more rapid , a it be already evident by 40 min and remain sustained for up to 3 h .
collectively , these finding indicate that nf-kappa b activation might constitute one of the mechanism underlie the inducible expression of kappa b-dependent gene in microglia stimulate by a beta peptide and ifn gamma , or by lp .
redox regulation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway during lymphocyte activation .
we have previously demonstrate an obligatory requirement for intracellular reactive oxygen specie generation during t lymphocyte activation , and have propose that intracellular reactive oxygen specie may act a signalling agent in the regulation of certain cellular process , for example , during cell cycle entry .
to test this hypothesis , we have be interest to determine which , if any , cell cycle entry event be affect by oxidative signalling .
in early study , we have identify the transcription factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 a molecular target for oxidative signalling process during cell cycle entry , and have show that oxidative signalling be involve in the regulation of early change in gene expression during the g0 to g1 phase transition .
to extend these initial observation , we have examine the effect of antioxidant treatment on the activity of the mitogen-activated protein kinase erk1 and erk2 , a member of a signal transduction pathway know to directly regulate transcription factor function .
use a a probe cysteamine , an aminothiol compound with both antioxidant and antiproliferative activity , we have identify erk2 , a key element of the map kinase pathway , a be responsive to oxidative signalling during lymphocyte activation .
these observation provide further evidence to suggest a role for intracellular oxidant generation a a regulatory mechanism during cell cycle entry , and establish a link between oxidative signalling and other aspect of the intracellular signalling network that be activate in response to mitogenic stimulation .
anti-ro(ssa) autoantibody be associate with t cell receptor beta gene in systemic lupus erythematosus patient .
several of the heterogeneous clinical manifestation of systemic lupus erythematosus have be associate with specific autoantibody .
association between hla class ii antigen and autoantibody to the ribonucleoproteins ro(ssa) and la(ssb) have be report in these patient .
because hla class ii molecule present antigen to t cell receptor ( tcrs ) , we have search for a tcr gene associate with the production of anti- ro(ssa) antibody .
a pair of restriction fragment length polymorphism ( rflps ) , one of which hybridize to the tcr constant region c beta 1 and the other to the c beta 2 gene , have be identify , suggest these may be genotypic marker for an extend region of the tcr beta locus .
this rflp pair occur in 76 % of patient with ro(ssa) precipitin , 84 % of anti- ro(ssa) -positive patient lack la(ssb) precipitin , but only 41 % of the patient lack both precipitin ( p = 0.0004 ) .
this disproportionate occurrence in a subset of lupus patient indicate that these rflps be not disease susceptibility marker , but rather be important marker for tcr gene whose product be involve in the production of anti- ro(ssa) antibody .
the majority of patient who have these rflps and hla class ii antigen previously associate with the anti- ro(ssa) response make this antibody , suggest that interaction between product of these locus occur in response to ro(ssa) .
clone pat 133 identify a gene that encode another human member of a class of growth factor-induced gene with almost identical zinc-finger domain .
we report the structure and regulation of a gene represent by clone pat 133 , which be induce upon transition from a resting state ( g0 ) through the early phase of the cell cycle ( g1 ) .
the pat 133 gene be immediately induce , with fo -like kinetics , in human t cell and in fibroblast .
primary structure analysis show that the encode protein contain three tandem zinc-finger sequence of the type cys2-xaa12-his2 .
this zinc-finger region , which be think to bind dna in a sequence-specific manner , be similar ( great than 80 % on the amino acid level ) to two previously describe transcription factor pat 225/egr1 and pat 591/egr2 .
except for the conserve zinc-finger domain , the amino acid sequence of the three protein be distinct .
this structural similarity suggest that the pat 133 gene encode a transcription factor with a specific biological function .
compare the regulation of these related zinc-finger -encoding gene show coordinate induction upon mitogenic stimulation of rest t lymphocyte and of rest fibroblast .
however , upon transition from a proliferating ( g1 ) to a resting state of the cell cycle the three gene be differently regulate .
in human histiocytic u937 cell mrna of clone pat 133 be constitutively express , whereas mrna of pat 225/egr1 be induce upon induction of terminal differentiation .
in contrast mrna represent pat 591/egr2 be not express in these cell .
this difference in gene regulation suggest distinct biological role in the control of cell proliferation for the respective protein .
requirement of prestimulated thp-1 monocytic cell for endothelial cell activation .
involvement of tnf alpha .
blood monocyte spontaneously activate endothelial cell in culture , lead to adhesion of monocytic cell onto the endothelial surface and overproduction of endothelial protein such a von willebrand factor ( vwf ) and plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 ( pai-1 ) .
to overcome the difficulty in obtain quiescent monocyte , we study the ability of promonocytic thp-1 cell to activate endothelial cell .
lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -prestimulated and untreated thp-1 cell be cocultured with rest human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvec ) for 3 and 24 h in the presence of colimycin to neutralize lp trace .
addition of untreated thp-1 cell have little effect on huvec adhesiveness .
addition of prestimulated thp-1 cell be follow by a noticeable adhesion after 3 h which reverse to basal value within 24 h .
under these condition huvec adhesion molecule , e-selectin , vcam-1 and icam-1 , be increase at 3 h with only icam-1 remain overexpressed at 24 h .
diffusible endothelial protein such a soluble e-selectin , pai-1 and vwf to a minimal extent , increase in supernatant from huvec cocultured for 24 h with prestimulated thp-1 cell .
in those cocultures , tnf alpha concentration peak at 3 h whereas il-1 beta level progressively rise until 24 h .
addition of an anti- tnf alpha antibody decrease by 40 % e-selectin and icam-1 induction and suppress pai-1 overproduction with a weak effect on vwf .
an anti-il-1 beta antibody have negligible effect on huvec adhesion molecule , pai-1 or vwf production .
these result provide evidence that promonocytic thp-1 cell require prestimulation in order to activate huvec and that tnf alpha contribute to this phenomenon .
the role of protein kinase c signaling in activate dra transcription .
expression of human mhc hla-dra class ii gene can be up-regulated in b cell by ig cross-linking as well a by phorbol ester such a 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate ( tpa ) .
induce dra expression involve activation of restricted protein kinase c ( pkc ) isoforms , result in activate activator protein-1 -dependent transcription .
in this report expression profile and activation of pkc be analyze in human raji b lymphoblastoid cell .
transient transfection analysis with target plasmid contain either dra promoter ( wild-type or mutate ) or tpa response element demonstrate that pretreatment with the selective pkc inhibitor gf 109203x repress tpa -mediated activation .
western analysis perform on cellular fraction of rest cell and of tpa -activated cell reveal abundant expression of classical pkc-alpha ( cpkc-alpha ) , cpkc-betaii , and atypical pkc-zeta isoforms and identify a sustained translocation of cpkc-alpha and cpkc-betaii from the cytosolic compartment to membrane .
a expect , the distribution of atypical pkc-zeta be unaffected by tpa treatment and display an even distribution between cytosol and membrane .
this finding be confirm by immunofluorescence microscopy .
the tpa -mediated translocation of cpkc-alpha and cpkc-betaii be not influence by pretreatment with gf 109203x .
finally , functional activation and translocation of pkc be investigate with a selective in vitro kinase assay .
together , these result show that activate hla-dra expression in response to tpa treatment be strictly dependent on pkc activation act on the x2 box of the dra promoter and that selective inhibition of pkc enzymatic activity do not influence subcellular localization of express pkc isoenzymes .
thus , the translocation event per se occur independently of pkc activation in these cell .
triggering of hla-dr antigen differentially modulate tumor necrosis factor alpha release by b cell at distinct stage of maturation .
triggering of hla class ii antigen by the anti-hla-dr monoclonal antibody ( mab ) l243 significantly ( p < 0.05 ) and differentially enhance the release of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) by the non-hodgkin 's lymphoma cell ri-i , ci-i , and sc-i , which be at a distinct stage of b-cell differentiation , and by the more mature burkitt lymphoma cell raji ; in contrast , it do not induce tnf-alpha release by the pre-b leukemia cell nalm-6 and bv173 .
tnf-alpha release peak at 24 h and decrease thereafter , and it be dose dependent and precede by an increase of tnf-alpha mrna detectable after 3 h of stimulation with mab l243 .
secrete tnf-alpha mediate the enhancement of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) and activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) binding activity ; in fact , the triggering of hla-dr antigen in the presence of antihuman tnf-alpha -neutralizing antibody do not upregulate nf-kappa b and ap-1 .
in contrast , release tnf-alpha be not responsible for the homotypic aggregation of ri-i , ci-i , sc-i , and raji cell induce by mab l243 , and it do not affect the proliferation of b cell investigate .
altogether , our data demonstrate that : ( a ) the ability of b cell to release tnf-alpha after triggering of hla-dr antigen depend on their stage of differentiation ; ( b ) level of release tnf-alpha seem to correlate with the stage of b-cell maturation but do not correlate with the amount of cell surface hla-dr antigen ; ( c ) secrete tnf-alpha regulate the level of expression of nf-kappa b and ap-1 by an autocrine loop ; and ( d ) intracellular signal mediate tnf-alpha release by b cell be distinct from those regulate homotypic aggregation and proliferation .
functional role of the transcription factor oct-2a and the high mobility group protein i/y in hla-dra gene expression .
the class ii major histocompatibility complex gene hla-dra be express in b cell , activate t lymphocyte , and in antigen-presenting cell .
in addition , hla-dra gene expression be inducible in a variety of cell type by interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) .
here we show that the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct-2a play a critical role in hla-dra gene expression in class ii-positive b cell line , and that the high mobility group protein ( hmg ) i/y bind to multiple site within the dra promoter , include the oct-2a binding site .
coexpression of hmg i/y and oct-2 in cell line lack oct-2 result in high level of hla-dra gene expression , and in vitro dna-binding study reveal that hmg i/y stimulate oct-2a binding to the hla-dra promoter .
thus , oct-2a and hmg i/y may synergize to activate hla-dra expression in b cell .
by contrast , oct-2a be not involve in the ifn-gamma induction of the hla-dra gene in hela cell , but antisense hmg i/y dramatically decrease the level of induction .
we conclude that distinct set of transcription factor be involve in the two mode of hla-dra expression , and that hmg i/y may be important for b cell-specific expression , and be essential for ifn-gamma induction .
calcineurin activate transcription from the gm-csf promoter in synergy with either protein kinase c or nf-kappa b /ap-1 in t cell .
two cis-acting element gm-kappa b/gc-box and cle0 , of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) gene be require for maximal induction in jurkat t cell by costimulation with phorbol-12-myristate acetate ( pma ) and ca2+ ionophore ( a23187 ) .
the gm-kappa b sequence be recognize by nf-kappa b , which be mainly induce by pma .
the cle0 sequence interact with factor , related to a pma -induced ap-1 and a pma / a23187 -induced nf- at .
we examine whether signal transducing component in t cell can activate transcription of the gm-csf gene .
cotransfection of nf-kappa b ( p50/p65 ) - or ap-1 ( c-jun/c-fos ) - expression vector into jurkat cell with a luciferase reporter contain the gm-csf promoter do not stimulate transcription from the gm-csf promoter .
in contrast , cotransfection with a combination of nf-kappa b and ap-1 significantly augment transcription from the gm-csf promoter contain the gm-kappa b/gc-box and the cle0 ( ap-1 /nf-at ) .
expression of a constitutively active calcineurin ( cn ) , a ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase , potentiate by two fold the transcriptional activation by nf-kappa b /ap-1 .
both constitutively active form of cn and protein kinase c ( pkc ) synergistically activate transcription from the gm-csf promoter .
these result suggest that cooperation among nf-kappa b- , ap-1- and nf-at- binding sequence be require for induction of the gm-csf gene through pkc- and ca2+- signaling pathway downstream of t cell activation .
the dna and steroid binding domain of the glucocorticoid receptor be not alter in mononuclear cell of treat cll patient .
the aim of this study be to investigate whether mutation in the glucocorticoid receptor could account for the increase unresponsiveness of patient with chronic lymphatic leukemia ( cll ) to combination chemotherapy .
the receptor be test immunocytochemically , in steroid binding assay , and by a mutation screening ( denature gradient gel electrophoresis ) of the receptor-cdna .
the receptor concentration , a measure by stain and steroid binding test , vary considerably but show no clear correlation to clinical response .
use a highly sensitive mutation screening assay of the dna- and the steroid -binding region , none of the treat patient reveal any mutation , suggest that the glucocorticoid receptor in the cll patient test be not alter in these domain .
in one individual who have not be treat before analysis a silent mutation be find in one receptor allele .
the result suggest that mechanism other than altered ligand or dna binding of the receptor may be responsible for the lack of response to chemotherapy .
this conclusion be discuss in relation to the mechanism of corticoid resistance in mouse and human lymphoma cell in culture .
tobacco smoke induce coordinate activation of hsf and inhibition of nfkappab in human monocyte : effect on tnfalpha release .
tobacco smoke ( t ) exposure be a major risk factor for human disease , and macrophage of healthy smoker have a depress capacity to release cytokine , include tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) alpha .
t induce the synthesis of heat shock ( h ) /stress protein ( hsp ) , and , in particular , of hsp70 .
we determine whether hsp70 induction by t be mediate by the activation of the h transcription factor , hsf .
hsf activation have be show to inhibit nfkappab .
thus , we also determine the effect of t on nfkappab .
u937 cell and human peripheral blood monocyte be expose to t , binding activity of the respective transcription factor be analyze , and hsp70 expression and tnfalpha release be determine in parallel .
t activate hsf , which be associate with hsp70 overexpression and inhibition of nfkappab binding activity and tnfalpha release .
the altered cytokine profile observe in smoker may relate to an hsf / hsp70 -mediated inhibition of nfkappab activity .
copyright 1998 academic press .
regulation of the balance of cytokine production and the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) transcription factor activity by cytokine and inflammatory synovial fluid .
the balance between type 1 and 2 t helper cell cytokine production play an important role in several animal model of autoimmunity , and skewed pattern of cytokine expression have be describe in human inflammatory disease .
many cytokine activate signal transducer and activation of transcription ( stat ) transcription factor , which , in turn , activate transcription of inflammatory effector gene .
we use mononuclear cell priming culture and inflammatory synovial fluid ( sfs ) derive from arthritis patient to examine the regulation of cytokine production and stat activity by an inflammatory synovial microenvironment .
exposure to sfs during priming result in an 81 % inhibition of interferon ( ifn ) -gamma , but not interleukin ( il ) 4 , production by effector cell generate in priming culture .
sf suppression be mediate by il-4 and il-10 and inhibition of il-12 expression , and it be reverse in a dominant fashion by exogenous il-12 .
sfs block the sustained activity of transcription factor stat1 , but not stat3 , during the priming period , and stat1 activity be differentially regulate by cytokine in parallel with their positive or negative regulation of ifn-gamma production .
active stat3 , but not stat1 , be detect in cell from inflamed joint .
these result suggest a role for altered balance of stat1 and stat3 transcriptional activity in the regulation of t cell differentiation and in the pathogenesis of inflammatory synovitis .
hiv glycoprotein 120 enhance intercellular adhesion molecule-1 gene expression in glial cell .
involvement of janus kinase /signal transducer and activator of transcription and protein kinase c signaling pathway .
it be well establish that the two major glial cell in the central nervous system ( cns ) , astrocyte and microglia , be key participant in mediate the neurologic dysfunction associate with hiv infection of the cns .
in this study , we investigate the ability of the major envelope glycoprotein of hiv , glycoprotein 120 ( gp120 ) , to regulate intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) expression in glial cell , because icam-1 be important in mediate immune responsiveness in the cns , facilitate entry of hiv -infected cell into the cns , and promote syncytium formation .
our result indicate that gp120 enhance icam-1 gene expression in primary rat astrocyte , primary human astrocyte , a human astroglioma cell line crt , and primary rat microglia .
the signal transduction event involve in gp120 -mediated enhancement of icam-1 appear to involve activation of both protein kinase c and tyrosine kinase , because inhibitor of protein kinase c and tyrosine kinase abrogate gp120 -mediated icam-1 expression in both astrocyte and microglia .
moreover , gp120 induce tyrosine phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat-1 alpha ) as well a the janus kinase ( jak2 ) in glial cell .
we also demonstrate that gp120 -mediated icam-1 expression have functional significance , a it enhance the ability of monocytic cell to bind to gp120 -stimulated human astrocyte in an icam-1 /beta 2 integrin -dependent fashion .
these result provide new insight into how gp120 can influence the involvement of glial cell in the pathogenesis of aid dementia complex .
neuronal ( type i ) nitric oxide synthase regulate nuclear factor kappab activity and immunologic ( type ii ) nitric oxide synthase expression .
nitric oxide subserve diverse physiologic role in the nervous system .
no be produce from at least three different no synthase ( no ) isoforms : neuronal no ( nnos ) , endothelial no , and immunologic no ( inos ) .
we show that nnos be the predominant isoform constitutively express in glia .
no derive from nnos in glia inhibit the transcription factor nuclear factor kappab ( nf kappab ) a no inhibitor enhance basal nf kappab activation .
pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) be an inhibitor of nf kappab in most cell ; however , we show that pdtc be also a potent scavenger of no through formation of mononitrosyl iron complex with pdtc .
in jurkat cell , a human t-cell lymphoma cell line , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) induce nf kappab activation that be inhibit by pdtc .
contrary to the result in jurkat cell , pdtc do not inhibit tumor necrosis factor-alpha -induced nf kappab activation in astrocyte ; instead pdtc itself induce nf kappab activation in astrocyte , and this may be related to scavenging of endogenously produce no by the pdtc iron complex .
in astrocyte pdtc also dramatically induce the nf kappab - dependent enzyme , inos , support the physiologic relevance of endogenous no regulation of nf kappab .
nf kappab activation in glia from mouse lack nnos respond more rapidly to pdtc compare with astrocyte from wild-type mouse .
our data suggest that nnos in astrocyte regulate nf kappab activity and inos expression , and indicate a novel regulatory role for nnos in tonically suppress central nervous system , nf kappab -regulated gene .
energy substrate , hormone response and glucocorticoid binding in lymphocyte during intense physical exercise in human follow phosphocreatine administration .
eight healthy untrained male volunteer pedal a cycle ergometer accord to two exercise protocol : the first involve step-wise increase physical exercise to maximal ( mpe ) ; the second involve prolonged ( 35 min ) submaximal physical exercise ( ppe ) at 70 % of the individual 's maximal oxygen uptake .
each volunteer perform these exercise twice , follow either an intravenous injection of phosphocreatine ( pcr ) or a placebo of an isotonic nacl solution .
anaerobic threshold ( at ) be determine from the point of departure of the ventilatory response from linearity and from the sudden increase in venous blood lactate concentration during mpe .
after exercise follow placebo administration we observe increase in concentration of blood substrate , plasma adrenocorticotropin ( acth ) , growth hormone and cortisol and in the number of glucocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte without change in the dissociation constant .
intravenous administration of pcr ( start 1 day before exercise ) lead to an increase in the total workload ( on average by 5.8 % ) and in at ( on average by 6.8 % ) during mpe and to a good tolerance of exercise during ppe .
follow pcr administration we observe low blood lactate concentration and different pattern of some enzyme activity , less pronounced change in plasma acth and cortisol concentration and in glucocorticoid binding in lymphocyte , but no change in plasma growth hormone concentration compare to the placebo .
the result show that intense physical exercise lead not only to increase in blood hormone concentration but also to an increase in the density of glucocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte .
intravenous pcr injection lead to small change in acth and cortisol concentration as well a to a low activation of glucocorticoid binding in lymphocyte .
expression of laz3/bcl6 in follicular center ( fc ) b cell of reactive lymph node and fc-derived non-hodgkin lymphoma .
chromosomal translocation result in abnormal expression of the laz3/bcl6 gene in b cell have be implicate in the tumorigenesis of non-hodgkin lymphoma ( nhl ) .
therefore we study the expression pattern of laz3/bcl6 by in situ hybridization with synthetic oligonucleotide probe in freeze tissue section from five reactive lymph node and 38 b cell and non-b nhl .
in addition , we investigate the expression of laz3/bcl6 by northern blot analysis on multiple human tissue .
the laz3/bcl6 transcript be find in a variety of tissue , include skeletal muscle , peripheral blood leukocyte , and weakly in normal lymph node .
in the tumor sample , expression of laz3/bcl6 be observe in 68 % of all b cell nhl and none of the non-b lymphoma .
all case of follicular , mixed small and large cell lymphoma show laz3/bcl6 expression confine to the neoplastic follicle .
a follicular expression pattern be also find in all non-malignant reactive lymph node .
hence , the expression of laz3/bcl6 do not correlate to malignancy , but reflect the origin of b cell from the germinal center .
activation of early growth response 1 gene transcription and pp90rsk during induction of monocytic differentiation .
the present work have study mechanism responsible for induction of early growth response 1 ( egr-1 ) gene expression during monocytic differentiation of u-937 myeloid leukemia cell .
differentiation of u-937 cell with 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) , an activator of the serine/threonine protein kinase c , be associate with transcriptional activation of egr-1 promoter-reporter construct .
the egr-1 promoter contain six cc(a/t)6gg ( carg ) motif .
the two 5'-most distal carg sequence confer tpa inducibility .
in contrast , there be little effect of tpa on egr-1 transcription in a tpa -resistant u-937 cell variant , designate tur .
treatment of both u-937 and tur cell with okadaic acid , an inhibitor of serine/threonine protein phosphatase 1 and 2a , be associate with induction of monocytic differentiation and egr-1 transcription through the 5'-most carg element .
since these finding support the involvement of serine /threonine protein phosphorylation in the regulation of egr-1 expression , we study activation of the 40 ribosomal protein s6 serine /threonine kinase , pp70s6k and pp90rsk .
although both kinase participate in regulate cell growth , there be no detectable activation of pp70s6k during tpa- or okadaic acid- induced monocytic differentiation .
moreover , rapamycin , an inhibitor of pp70s6k activation , have no effect on induction of egr-1 expression .
in contrast , analysis of pp90rsk activity by phosphorylation of a peptide derive from s6 protein demonstrate stimulation of this kinase in tpa-treated u-937 , and not tur , cell .
okadaic acid treatment of both cell type be associate with activation of pp90rsk .
corticosteroid receptor and lymphocyte subset in mononuclear leukocyte in aging .
plasma cortisol and aldosterone level and number of related receptor in mononuclear leukocyte be measure in 49 healthy aged subject ( 62-97 yr ) and in 21 adult control ( 21-50 yr ) .
in all subject , in addition , lymphocyte subset be determine a an index of corticosteroid action .
the mean number of type i and type ii receptor be significantly low in aged subject than in control ( respectively , 198 +/- 96 and 272 +/- 97 receptor /cell for type i , and 1,794 +/- 803 and 3,339 +/- 918 for type ii receptor ) .
plasma aldosterone and cortisol and lymphocyte subset be not different in the two group .
all of the parameter be also test for correlation , and a significant inverse correlation be find between age and type i and type ii receptor when all subject be plot and between aged and cd4 and age and cd4/cd8 in the aged group .
these data show that aged subject have reduction of corticosteroid receptor that be not associate with increase of related steroid and that this situation probably represent a concomitant of the normal aging process .
transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulation of erythroid gene expression in anthracycline -induced differentiation of human erythroleukemic cell .
aclacinomycin ( acla ) and doxorubicin ( dox ) be use at subtoxic concentration to induce erythroid differentiation in the human leukemic cell line k562 .
cell hemoglobinization be accompany by the increase expression of gene encode gamma-globin and porphobilinogen deaminase ( pbgd ) , an enzyme of heme synthesis .
by use run-on assay , acla be show to induce an enhancement of the transcription of erythroid gene , include gamma-globin , pbgd , erythropoietin receptor , and gata-1 transcription factor .
in contrast , in dox -treated cell , the transcription rate of these gene be unchanged in comparison with control cell .
in addition , inhibition of mrna synthesis with actinomycin d indicate that dox induce an increase stability of pbgd and gata-1 mrna , whereas acla do not affect the half-lives of these mrna .
because the increase in erythroid mrna steady-state level in anthracycline -treated cell be inhibit by cycloheximide , this suggest that transcriptional activation in acla -treated cell and mrna stabilization in dox -treated cell be dependent on de novo protein synthesis .
finally , gata-1 protein level be show to be increase in acla-treated but not in dox-treated cell .
these two anthracyclines , although closely related in their structure , appear to act a differentiation inducer by distinct mechanism .
indeed , erythroid gene expression be demonstrate to be regulate transcriptionally by acla and mainly posttranscriptionally by dox .
transactivation by ciita , the type ii bare lymphocyte syndrome-associated factor , require participation of multiple region of the tata box binding protein .
ciita be a positive regulator of class ii major histocompatibility complex gene transcription that have be find to be defective in one of the five complementation group of class ii major histocompatibility complex -negative cell line .
it n-terminal region be capable of activate transcription from a reporter gene when fuse to a dna binding domain .
we have investigate the mechanism of transactivation mediate by the ciita activation domain by study it role in the process of transcription initiation and elongation .
specifically the altered specificity tbp ( tata box binding protein ) assay have be use to analyze the response of the ciita activation domain to mutation in tbp know to disrupt it interaction with it associate general factor .
transactivation by ciita be extremely sensitive to a mutation in tbp that in yeast be know to abolish vp16 -mediated transcription but leave basal transcription unaffected .
a tbp mutant defective in interaction with tbp -associated factor tafii250 also fail to mediate transactivation through the ciita activation domain .
certain interaction between tbp and general factor that be specifically require for acidic activation domain be also require for ciita -mediated transactivation to reach it full potential .
finally , like vp16 , ciita be able to stimulate elongation of transcription .
overall the mechanism of transactivation by the human b-cell-specific ciita be very similar to that mediate by the herpes virus transactivator vp16 in the way that have be test .
protein kinase c regulate fa ( cd95/apo-1 ) expression .
fa ( cd95/apo-1 ) be a transmembrane protein of the tnf/neuron growth factor receptor family .
ligation of fa by specific ab or fa ligand ( fasl/cd95 ligand ) induce rapid apoptotic cell death in a variety of cell type .
despite progress in understand the death signal transduce from fa , very little be know with regard to the mechanism by which fa expression be regulate .
use our previously established murine t cell hybridoma model a1.1 , we show that specific protein kinase c ( pkc ) inhibitor could block activation-induced fa expression and apoptosis .
the activation of pkc with pma or 1-oleoyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycerol could mimic the tcr signal by induce the expression of fa but not fasl .
pkc -dependent fa expression be also observe in several murine and human tumor cell line .
since the inhibition of ca2+ redistribution by an inhibitor of intracellular ca2+ mobilization , 8-(diethylamino)-octyl-3,4,5-trimethoxybenzoate hydrochloride , inhibit tcr-induced fasl but not fa , the expression of fa appear to be independent of ca2+ mobilization .
significantly , expression of the newly identify fa -regulatory gene , tdag51 , be find to be dependent upon the activity of pkc .
pkc activation only induce fa expression in cell express wild-type tdag51 .
thus , fa expression be likely mediate by pkc through tdag51 .
selenium -mediated inhibition of transcription factor nf-kappa b and hiv-1 ltr promoter activity .
the eukaryotic transcription factor nf-kappa b be involve in the inducible expression of various inflammatory gene as well a in hiv-1 replication .
activation of nf-kappa b be induce by prooxidants and several stimulus elicit oxidative stress , such a cytokine , lipopolysaccharide , uv irradiation and other mediator .
various antioxidant inhibit nf-kappa b activation in response to these stimulus .
in this study , we have investigate the effect of selenium , an integral component of glutathione peroxidase ( gpx ) , on nf-kappa b activation .
in selenium -deprived jurkat and esb-l t lymphocyte , supplementation of selenium lead to a substantial increase of gpx activity .
analysis of dna binding reveal that nf-kappa b activation in response to tnf be significantly inhibit under these condition .
likewise , reporter gene assay use luciferase construct drive by the hiv-1 long terminal repeat show a dose-dependent inhibition of nf-kappa b controlled gene expression by selenium .
the effect of selenium be specific for nf-kappa b , since the activity of the transcription factor ap-1 be not suppress .
these data suggest that selenium supplementation may be use to modulate the expression of nf-kappa b target gene and hiv-1 .
overexpression of dr-nm23 , a protein encode by a member of the nm23 gene family , inhibit granulocyte differentiation and induce apoptosis in 32dc13 myeloid cell .
chronic myelogenous leukemia evolve in two clinically distinct stage : a chronic and a blast crisis phase .
the molecular change associate with chronic phase to blast crisis transition be largely unknown .
we have identify a cdna clone , dr-nm23 , differentially express in a blast-crisis cdna library , which have approximately 70 % sequence similarity to the putative metastatic suppressor gene , nm23-h1 and nm23-h2 .
the deduce amino acid sequence similarity to the protein encode by these two latter gene be approximately 65 % and include domain and amino acid residue ( the leucine zipper-like and the rgd domain , a serine and a histidine residue in the nh2- and in the cooh-terminal portion of the protein , respectively ) postulate to be important for nm23 function .
dr-nm23 mrna be preferentially express at early stage of myeloid differentiation of highly purify cd34+ cell .
it constitutive expression in the myeloid precursor 32dc13 cell line , which be growth-factor dependent for both proliferation and differentiation , result in inhibition of granulocytic differentiation induce by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor and cause apoptotic cell death .
these result be consistent with a role for dr-nm23 in normal hematopoiesis and raise the possibility that it overexpression contribute to differentiation arrest , a feature of blastic transformation in chronic myelogenous leukemia .
1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from patient with primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism .
a decrease number of calcitriol ( 1,25(oh)2d3 ) receptor have be observe in parathyroid gland of uremic animal .
in human , study carry out in surgically remove parathyroid gland have show that calcitriol binding be high in primary than in secondary hyperparathyroidism .
since specific receptor for calcitriol have be describe in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) , we have investigate the specific uptake of 3h-labelled 1,25(oh)2d3 in pbmc of 12 woman with primary hyperparathyroidism ( php ) , 8 woman with hyperparathyroidism secondary to chronic renal failure ( sh ) , 9 woman with renal transplant ( rt ) , and 23 healthy woman .
the median dissociation constant ( kd ) be similar in all three group of patient and in healthy woman ( mean +/- s.d. ( range ) : php , 1.2 +/- 1.0 ( 0.2-4 ) x 10(-10) m ; sh , 0.6 +/- 0.4 ( 0.2-1.2 ) x 10(-10) m ; rt , 1.1 +/- 0.5 ( 0.4-1.9 ) x 10(-10) m ; control , 1.0 +/- 0.6 ( 0.3-2.6 ) x 10(-10) m ) . however , the maximal binding capacity ( nmax ) be significantly enhance in php ( 3.9 +/- 1.9 ( 1.3-7.6 ) fmol/10(7) cell vs. 2.3 +/- 0.9 ( 1.1-4.4 ) fmol/10(7) cell in control ; p = 0.0006 ) and decrease in sh ( 0.8 +/- 0.5 ( 0.2-1.6 ) fmol/10(7) cell vs. 2.3 +/- 0.9 ( 1.1-4.4 ) fmol/10(7) cell in control ; p = 0.0001 ) , whereas no change be see in rt ( 2.3 +/- 0.7 ( 1.2-3.3 ) fmol/10(7) cell vs. 2.3 +/- 0.9 ( 1.1-4.4 ) fmol/10(7) cell in control ) .
in three patient with php who be subject to parathyroidectomy , the calcitriol number come down to normal .
change of calcitriol receptor in primary and secondary hyperparathyroidism could magnify the consequence of disturbance in serum concentration of calcitriol itself and might play an important role in the development of secondary hyperparathyroidism in uremia .
[ change in plasma interleukin-1 and their possible relationship with the change in glucocorticoid receptor in aged long-distance runner ]
for the study of the change in plasma interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) and their possible relationship with the change in glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) , plasma il-1 and gr in peripheral blood leukocyte in aged long-distance runner be measure simultaneously .
the activity of il-1 be express a it ability to stimulate 3h-tdr incorporation in the thymocytes of c57 mouse .
gr be determine by whole cell assay with 3h-dex .
the result show that the activity of plasma il-1 in aged long-distance runner be 209 % , 223 % and 145 % of the control at 14.7-18.7 , 3.8-7.0 and 1.5-2.6 kd fraction .
the gr in peripheral blood leukocyte in aged runner be 65 % of the control .
possible relationship between the change in il-1 and gr in aged long-distance runner and it physiological significance be discuss .
transform growth factor-beta suppress human b lymphocyte ig production by inhibit synthesis and the switch from the membrane form to the secreted form of ig mrna .
transform growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) inhibit b cell ig secretion and reduce b cell membrane ig expression .
the addition of tgf-beta to human b lymphocyte culture stimulate with staphylococcus aureus cowan strain i and il-2 completely inhibit b cell ig secretion ( great than 90 % ) and decrease b cell surface igm , igd , kappa l chain , and lambda l chain expression .
in contrast , tgf-beta have only minimal effect on two other b cell membrane protein , hla-dr and cd20 .
internal labeling with [35s]methionine and immunoprecipitation with anti-igm , anti-kappa , and anti-lambda antibody reveal a striking reduction in kappa l chain in the presence of tgf-beta .
a less pronounced reduction in lambda l chain and microh chain be also note .
northern blot analysis of rna purify from b cell treat with tgf-beta for vary time interval reveal a significant decrease in steady state kappa and lambda l chain mrna level .
furthermore , a significant decrease in the switch from the membrane form of mu and gamma to their respective secreted form be note in the presence of tgf-beta .
nuclear run-on experiment demonstrate decrease transcription of kappa l chain .
the effect of tgf-beta on two transcriptional regulatory factor , oct-2 and nuclear factor ( nf ) kappa b , know to be important in ig gene transcription be examine .
oct-2 mrna level and both oct-2 and nf-kappa b protein in nuclear extract be not alter by treatment with tgf-beta .
in contrast , level of the transcriptional factor ap-1 , which be not know to be important in b cell ig production , be reduce by tgf-beta .
these finding demonstrate that tgf-beta decrease b lymphocyte ig secretion by inhibit the synthesis of ig mrna and inhibit the switch from the membrane form to the secreted form of mu and gamma mrna .
the mechanism by which tgf-beta inhibit ig chain synthesis be unclear although it do not involve inhibition of the binding of nf-kappa b or oct-2 to their respective target sequence .
novel membrane receptor for aldosterone in human lymphocyte : a 50 kda protein on sds-page .
fast in vitro effect of aldosterone on the na+/h(+)-exchanger , inositoltrisphosphate generation and correspond specific binding to plasma membrane at kd-values of approximately 0.1 nm have be find in human mononuclear leukocyte and vascular smooth muscle cell .
the novel aldosterone membrane receptor be analyze on sds-page after label of microsomal membrane from human mononuclear leukocyte with a [125i]- aldosterone -derivative by use of based a a photoactivatable crosslinker .
binding of 1 nm [125i]- aldosterone be find at a molecular weight of approximately 50 kda which be absent with 1 microm cold aldosterone , but not cortisol in the bind medium .
this aldosterone -selectivity be typical and discriminatory for the new aldosterone membrane receptor .
solubilization of the receptor protein from membrane by high salt concentration ( 1 m nacl , 1 mm edta ) be not achieve .
it , thus , appear a an integral membrane protein .
dithiothreitol , a sulfhydryl agent , do not reduce specific aldosterone binding indicate the absence of sh-groups in the binding domain or sensitive structure of the receptor .
the result be the first to characterize the novel membrane receptor for aldosterone with regard to molecular weight and basic property .
these finding and other related result be review here .
expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor on alveolar lymphocyte from patient with pulmonary granulomatous disease .
1,25(oh)2d3 be know to be produce at site of granulomatous reaction .
in order to characterize the cell type that be target for this immunoregulatory hormone , we have evaluate the expression of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor on peripheral blood t-lymphocytes and those recover from the lung by bronchoalveolar lavage from patient with pulmonary granulomatous disease ( tuberculosis and sarcoidosis ) and from normal control subject use combined autoradiographic and immunohistochemical technique .
lavage t-lymphocytes from patient with tuberculosis or with sarcoidosis , but not those from normal control subject , express 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor a demonstrate by binding of [3h]1,25(oh)2d3 , which be inhibit by the presence of excess unlabeled 1,25(oh)2d3 , but not by the presence of unlabeled 25 ( oh ) d3 ( receptor-positive lymphocyte : sarcoidosis , 20 +/- 12 % ; tuberculosis , 31 +/- 17 % ) .
in contrast , blood lymphocyte from patient with granulomatous disease do not express detectable 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor .
the percentage of lavage t-lymphocytes express 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor be significantly great for patient with tuberculosis present with isolate hilar adenopathy than for patient with pulmonary infiltrates and/or cavity .
1,25(oh)2d3 receptor be express to a great extent on cd8+ t-lymphocytes than on cd4+ t-lymphocytes in sarcoidosis , whereas a great proportion of cd4+ than of cd8+ t-lymphocytes from patient with tuberculosis be receptor-positive .
these finding support the conclusion that the interaction of 1,25(oh)2d3 with it receptor on t-lymphocytes may play an important role in the regulation of granulomatous reaction , but because these receptor be express on different lymphocyte population , the net effect of this potent immunoregulatory molecule be likely different in sarcoidosis and tuberculosis .
down-regulation of human granzyme b expression by glucocorticoid .
dexamethasone inhibit bind to the ikaros and ap-1 regulatory element of the granzyme b promoter .
the serine protease granzyme b be an essential component of the granule exocytosis pathway , a major apoptotic mechanism use by cytotoxic t lymphocyte and natural killer cell to induce target cell apoptosis .
granzyme b gene transcription be induce in activate lymphocyte upon antigenic stimulation , and several regulatory region include cbf , ap-1 , and ikaros binding site have be show to be essential in the control of granzyme b promoter activation .
dexamethasone , a glucocorticoid that be widely use a an immunomodulatory and anti-inflammatory agent , inhibit granzyme b mrna transcript in phytohemagglutinin -activated peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
transfection of a reporter construct contain the -148 to +60 region of the human granzyme b promoter demonstrate that this region be the target for dexamethasone repression .
mutation of ikaros or ap-1 binding site in the context of the granzyme b promoter demonstrate that both site participate in dexamethasone -mediated inhibition of the granzyme b promoter activity .
electromobility shift assay reveal that dexamethasone abolish the binding of nuclear transcription factor to the ikaros binding site and reduce ap-1 binding activity .
these result indicate that dexamethasone be able to abrogate the transcriptional activity of the human granzyme b gene promoter by inhibit the binding of nuclear factor at the ap-1 and ikaros site .
lysp100 -associated nuclear domain ( land ) : description of a new class of subnuclear structure and their relationship to pml nuclear body .
the pml gene be fuse to the retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar alpha ) gene in t(15;17) acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) , create a pml-rar alpha fusion oncoprotein .
the pml gene product have be localized to subnuclear dot-like structure variously term pod , nd10s , kr body , or pml nuclear body ( pml nb ) .
the present study describe the cloning of a lymphoid-restricted gene , lysp100 , that be homologous to another protein that localize to pml nb , sp100 .
in addition to sp100 homology region , one lysp100 cdna isoform contain a bromodomain and a phd/ttc domain , which be present in a variety of transcriptional regulatory protein .
by immunofluorescence , lysp100 be localized to nuclear dot that be surprisingly largely nonoverlapping with pml nb .
however , a minority of lysp100 nuclear dot exactly colocalized with pml and sp100 .
we term the lysp100 structure " land , " for lysp100 -associated nuclear domain .
although lysp100 be express only in lymphoid cell , land could be visualize in hela cell by transfection of a lysp100 cdna .
immunoelectron microscopy reveal land to be globular , electron-dense structure morphologically distinct from the annular structure characteristic of pml nb .
land be most often find in the nucleoplasm , but be also find at the nuclear membrane and in the cytoplasm , suggest that these structure may traffic between the cytoplasm and the nucleus .
by double-immunogold labeling of pml and lysp100 , some land be show to contain both pml and lysp100 .
thus , pml be localized to a second subnuclear domain that be morphologically and biochemically distinct from pml nb .
tyloxapol inhibit nf-kappa b and cytokine release , scavenge hoci , and reduce viscosity of cystic fibrosis sputum .
cystic fibrosis ( cf ) patient develop progressive cytokine -mediated inflammatory lung disease , with abundant production of thick , tenacious , protease - and oxidant-rich purulent airway secretion that be difficult to clear even with physiotherapy .
in the search for a potential treatment , we have test tyloxapol , an alkylaryl polyether alcohol polymer detergent previously use a a mucolytic agent in adult chronic bronchitis .
tyloxapol inhibit activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b ( nk-kappa b ) , reduce rest secretion of the cytokine interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) in culture human monocyte , and inhibit lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -stimulated release of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , il-1 beta , il-6 , il-8 , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , and the eiconsanoids thromboxane a2 and leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) .
we have previously show that tyloxapol be a potent antioxidant for hydroxyl radical ( oh ) .
tyloxapol ( 0.05 to 0.1 % wt/vol ) effectively scavenge the oxidant hypochlorous acid ( hocl ; 1 to 7.5 mm ) in vitro , and protect from hocl -mediated lung injury in rat .
tyloxapol also reduce the viscosity of cf sputum ( from 463 +/- 133 to 128 +/- 52 centipoise ) .
we conclude that tyloxapol be potentially useful a a new antiinflammatory therapy for cf lung disease , and could possibly promote clearance of secretion in the cf airway .
leukotriene b4 transcriptionally activate interleukin-6 expression involve nk-chi b and nf-il6 .
leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) be a notable participant in inflammation and chemotaxis .
it be , however , still unclear whether ltb4 act in this regard directly or indirectly by stimulate the release of chemotactic and inflammatory cytokine .
here we report that ltb4 induce synthesis of interleukin ( il ) -6 by human blood monocyte through transcriptional activation of the il-6 gene .
we furthermore demonstrate that this process involve activation of the transcription factor nf-chi b and , to a less extent , of nf-il6 , while the activity of the transcription factor ap-1 , show to otherwise confer il-6 inducibility , appear to be unaffected by ltb4 .
involvement of nf-chi b and nf-il6 in induction of il-6 transcription by monocyte be demonstrate use deleted form of the il-6 promoter .
activation of the il-6 promoter by ltb4 be not only associate with accumulation of the respective transcript but result in synthesis of functional il-6 protein as well .
in addition , ltb4 mediate transactivation of a heterologous promoter construct contain the nf-chi b or the nf-il6 enhancer , but not the ap-1 enhancer .
the signaling event mediate this effect appear to involve the release of h2o2 , since ltb4 fail to induce nf-chi b or nf-il6 in the presence of the scavenger of h2o2 , n-acetyl-l-cysteine .
in vivo function of an interleukin 2 receptor beta chain ( il-2rbeta ) / il-4ralpha cytokine receptor chimera potentiate allergic airway disease .
strength of t cell receptor ( tcr ) signaling , coreceptors , costimulation , antigen-presenting cell type , and cytokine all play crucial role in determine the efficiency with which type 2 t lymphocyte ( th2 , tc2 ) develop from uncommitted precursor .
to investigate in vivo regulatory mechanism that control the population of type 2 t cell and disease susceptibility , we have create line of transgenic mouse in which expression of a chimeric cytokine receptor ( the mouse interleukin 2 receptor beta chain [ il-2rbeta ] extracellular domain fuse to the cytoplasmic tail of il-4ralpha ) be target to the t lymphoid lineage use the proximal lck promoter .
this chimera transduce il-4 -specific signal in response to il-2 binding and dramatically enhance type 2 response ( il-4 , il-5 , and immunoglobulin e production ) upon in vitro tcr stimulation or in vivo antigen challenge .
thus , type 2 effector function be augment by il-4 signal transduce through a chimeric receptor express in a t cell-specific manner .
this influence be sufficient for establishment of antigen-induced allergic airway hyperresponsiveness on a disease-resistant background
nuclear factor of activate t cell and ap-1 be insufficient for il-2 promoter activation : requirement for cd28 up-regulation of re/ap .
il-2 gene transcription in t cell require both tcr and costimulatory signal .
il-2 promoter activation in jurkat t cell stimulate with superantigen present by raji b cell require cd28 activation .
the addition of rctla4ig , which block cd28 binding to it ligand , to the culture decrease il-2 promoter activation by > 80 % .
interestingly , ctla4ig do not significantly inhibit the activation of either nf of activate t cell ( nfat ) or ap-1 reporter .
therefore , activation of nfat and ap-1 be insufficient for il-2 promoter activation .
in contrast , an re/ap reporter be block by ctla4ig by > 90 % .
thus , the requirement for cd28 in il-2 promoter activation appear to be due to re/ap and not the nfat or ap-1 site .
in addition , these data suggest that transcriptional activation of re/ap be not mediate by nfat , because activation of a nfat reporter be not affect by the addition of ctla4ig .
differential interaction of nuclear factor with the leukocyte-specific pp52 promoter in b and t cell .
the leukocyte-specific , cytoskeleton-binding pp52 ( lsp-1 , wp-34 ) protein be widely express in multiple leukocyte lineage , include b and t lymphocyte , granulocyte , and macrophage .
we previously detect a tissue-specific promoter precede the exon encode the n terminus of the pp52 leukocyte protein .
here we describe the functional characterization of this promoter and identification of the factor in b and t cell that regulate it activity .
the pp52 promoter contain an initiator specify the unique 5' terminus of pp52 mrna , tandem pair of ets and sp1 motif , and a lone c/ebp motif .
all these motif be essential and collectively control transcriptional activity .
dna binding study and ab supershift assay reveal that different combination of factor interact with these motif in b cell v t cell .
the ets motif be preferentially bind by pu-1 in b cell extract from all stage of development , whereas a different ets family member react with these motif in t cell extract .
the c/ebp motif be bind by ig/ebp-1 in pre-b cell and t cell extract , but be replace by nuclear factor-il-6beta or a nuclear factor-il-6beta -ig/ebp-1 heterodimer in plasmacytoma cell extract .
despite it report role a a negative regulator of transcription , ig/ebp-1 appear to exert a stimulatory effect on this promoter .
these finding reveal the feature control the pp52 promoter in b and t cell and provide the foundation for determine the regulation of this promoter in other leukocyte lineage .
relationship between rap1 protein phosphorylation and regulation of ca2+ transport in platelet : a new approach .
although the interrelationship between the two messenger ca2+ and cyclic amp in platelet function be well document , it mechanism of action still remain to be establish .
we investigate here the question of the regulation of platelet ca(2+)-atpases by cyclic amp through the phosphorylation of the rap1 protein use a pathological model .
we first find experimental condition where ca(2+)-transport by platelet membrane vesicle appear to be dependent on the phosphorylation of the rap1 protein .
then , we study platelet of patient with congestive heart failure for their expression of the potential 97 kda ca(2+)-atpase target of regulation through the rap1 protein as well a the phosphorylation of the rap1 protein use the catalytic subunit of the cyclic amp -dependent protein kinase ( c. sub. ) .
in the first patient study , we find no significant modification in the expression of the 97 kda ca(2+)-atpase by western blotting use the pl/im 430 monoclonal antibody which specifically recognize this isoform .
in contrast , the rap1 protein be differentially phosphorylated when use 15 micrograms/ml of the c. sub .
these result allow u to use these pathological platelet to study the relationship between the expression of rap1 protein and the regulation of ca2+ transport by select a patient with severe heart failure .
we could show a decrease in the expression as well a in the phosphorylation of rap1 protein and demonstrate a low effect of c. sub. on ca2+ transport .
finally , by study a further series of patient , we could confirm that the decrease in rap1 protein expression in heart failure , whatever it extent , be variable , and could strictly correlate the expression of rap1 protein with the stimulatory effect of c. sub. on ca2+ transport .
besides the evidence for regulation of the expression of the rap1 protein in platelet from patient with heart failure , these finding constitute a new approach in favour of the regulation of platelet ca2+ transport through the phosphorylation of the rap1 protein .
deleted chromosome 20 from a patient with alagille syndrome isolate in a cell hybrid through leucine transport selection : study of three candidate gene .
alagille syndrome ( ag ) be a well-defined genetic entity assign to the short arm of chromosome ( chr ) 20 by a series of observation of ag patient associate with microdeletions in this region .
by fuse lymphoblastoid cell of an ag patient that exhibit a microdeletion in the short arm of chr 20 encompassing band p11.23 to p12.3 with rodent thermosensitive mutant cell ( chotsh1-1 ) deficient in-leucyl-trna synthetase , we isolate a somatic cell hybrid segregate the deleted human chr 20 .
this hybrid clone , designate nr2 , be characterize by several method , include pcr , with eight pair of oligonucleotides map to chr 20 : d20s5 , d20s41 , d20s42 , d20s56 , d20s57 , d20s58 , adenosine deaminase ( ada ) , and prion protein ( prip ) ; restriction fragment length polymorphism ( rflp ) analysis with four genomic anonymous probe ( d20s5 , cd3h12 , d20s17 , d20s18 ) ; and fluorescent in situ hybridization ( fish ) with total human dna and d20z1 , a sequence specific to the human chr 20 centromere , a probe .
the nr2 hybrid allow u to exclude three candidate gene for ag : hepatic nuclear factor 3 beta ( hnf3 beta ) , paired box 1 ( pax1 ) , and cystatin c ( cst3 ) a show by their localization outside of the deletion .
the nr2 hybrid be a powerful tool for the mapping of new probe of this region , as well a for obtain new informative probe specific for the deletion by subtractive cloning of the region .
such marker will be useful for linkage analysis and screening of cdna library .
selection of down-regulated sequence along the monocytic differentiation of leukemic hl60 cell .
in order to dissect the molecular mechanism of monocytic differentiation we have develop a subtractive hybridisation method base on a simplified ' representational difference analysis ' .
we have select 16 sequence and confirm their down-regulation along the tpa -induced monocytic differentiation of hl60 cell .
among these sequence we have identify the alpha-tubulin , the taxreb protein and two ribosomal protein sequence which have not be previously describe a differentially express .
these result add to our knowledge about the molecule implicate along the monocytic differentiation and growth arrest of leukemic cell and provide a first step in the study of their respective role .
transcriptional regulation of lysosomal acid lipase in differentiate monocyte be mediate by transcription factor sp1 and ap-2 .
human lysosomal acid lipase ( lal ) be a hydrolase require for the cleavage of cholesteryl ester and triglyceride derive from plasma lipoprotein .
it be show here that during monocyte to macrophage differentiation , the expression of lal -mrna be induce .
this induction be dependent on protein kinase c activity and protein synthesis .
the cell type-specific increase in lal expression be far investigate in the thp-1 cell line with respect to transcriptional regulation .
the human monocytic leukemia cell line thp-1 differentiate into macrophage-like cell when treat with phorbol ester .
in order to determine the cis-acting element necessary for both basal and phorbol 12-myristate-13 acetate ( pma ) -enhanced promoter activity , we perform deletion analysis and reporter gene assay .
a pma responsive element have be identify between -182 bp and -107 bp upstream of the major transcription start site .
gel mobility shift assay demonstrate that binding of sp1 and ap-2 to the lal promoter be increase by pma in thp-1 cell .
co-transfections with expression plasmid for sp1 and ap-2 far emphasize the important role of these transcription factor in both basal and pma -enhanced lal expression .
our data suggest that differentiation dependent increase of lysosomal acid lipase ( lal ) expression in thp-1 cell be mediate by a concerted action of sp1 and ap-2 .
altered dna-binding specificity mutant of eklf and sp1 show that eklf be an activator of the beta-globin locus control region in vivo .
the locus control region of the beta-globin cluster contain five dnase i hypersensitive site ( 5'hs1-5 ) require for locus activation .
5'hs3 contain six g-rich motif that be essential for it activity .
member of a protein family , characterize by three zinc finger highly homologous to those find in transcription factor sp1 , interact with these motif .
because point mutagenesis can not distinguish between family member , it be not know which protein activate 5'hs3 .
we show that the function of such closely related protein can be distinguish in vivo by match point mutation in 5'hs3 with amino acid change in the zinc finger of sp1 and eklf .
test their activity in transgenic mouse show that eklf be a direct activator of 5'hs3 .
multiple oct2 isoforms be generate by alternative splicing .
the interaction of the oct2 transcription factor with the cognate octamer motif atgcaaat be a critical determinant of the lymphoid-specific expression of immunoglobulin gene .
ectopic expression of clone oct2 cdna be show to be sufficient to reconstitute at least some aspect of this regulation in non-lymphoid cell .
we describe the isolation and characterization of multiple cdna encode mouse oct2 from a mature b-cell line and we show that a variety of isoforms of this transcription factor be generate from a single gene by an alternative splicing mechanism .
all the isoforms retain the previously characterize pou-domain and be therefore able to bind to the octamer motif .
different amount of the various isoforms be present within the same b-cell regardless of the developmental stage of b-cell differentiation and at least some of the isoforms be conserve between mouse and human .
in cotransfection experiment we show that all the isoforms be able to activate an octamer contain promoter element in fibroblast reveal an unexpected functional redundancy .
finally , we show that one of the isoforms encode the previously describe lymphoid-specific oct2b protein which have be suggest to be involve in the function of the octamer motif in the context of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain ( igh ) enhancer .
effect of tpa , bryostatin 1 , and retinoic acid on po-b , ap-1 , and ap-2 dna binding during hl-60 differentiation .
po-b be originally characterize a a transcriptional regulatory factor of the pro-opiomelanocortin ( pomc ) gene ; however , it have become increasingly clear that this protein may be active in tissue outside the pituitary , since it be present in diverse cell type , include differentiate hl-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell .
we previously show that po-b dna-binding be progressively induce during differentiation of promyelomonocytic leukemic hl-60 cell to the macrophage-like lineage ( with phorbol ester ) .
we now report that po-b dna-binding in hl-60 cell be similarly induce during differentiation to the granulocytic lineage ( with either retinoic acid or dimethylsulfoxide ) .
either a genetic or pharmacologic blockade of hl-60 differentiation prohibit these inductive effect .
these study have prompt our interest in the dynamic of other transcription factor change during hl-60 differentiation .
of these , we observe that another transcription factor ( ap-1 ) be also robustly induce at the dna-binding level during macrophage-like hl-60 differentiation , but not during granulocytic differentiation .
conversely , the dna-binding of the transcription factor ap-2 be slightly reduce by tpa -induced hl-60 differentiation but unchanged during granulocyte differentiation .
from these data , we conclude that the induction of po-b dna binding be a general marker of hl-60 myelomonocytic differentiation , but that qualitative aspect of the induction of additional distinct transcription factor , such a ap-1 , may contribute to lineage-specific determinant of cell fate .
the 29-kda protein phosphorylated in thrombin-activated human platelet be form of the estrogen receptor -related 27-kda heat shock protein .
thrombin play a critical role in platelet activation , hemostasis , and thrombosis .
cellular activation by thrombin lead to the phosphorylation of multiple protein , most of which be unidentified .
we have characterize several 29-kda protein that be rapidly phosphorylated follow exposure of intact human platelet to thrombin .
a murine monoclonal antibody raise to an unidentified estrogen receptor-related 29-kda protein selectively recognize these protein as well a a more basic , unphosphorylated 27-kda protein .
cellular activation by thrombin lead to a marked shift in the proportion of protein from the 27-kda unphosphorylated form to the 29-kda phosphoprotein specie .
use this antibody , we isolate and sequence a human cdna clone encode a protein that be identical to the mammalian 27-kda heat shock protein ( hsp27 ) , a protein of uncertain function that be know to be phosphorylated to several form and to be transcriptionally induce by estrogen .
the 29-kda protein be confirm to be phosphorylated form of hsp27 by immunoprecipitation study .
thus , the " estrogen receptor-related protein " be hsp27 , and the three major 29-kda protein phosphorylated in thrombin -activated platelet be form of hsp27 .
these data suggest a role for hsp27 in the signal transduction event of platelet activation .
inhibitor ( ik ) of ifn-gamma induced hla class ii antigen expression also inhibit hla class ii constitutive expression in the human raji b cell line .
the expression of major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii antigen be constitutive in professional antigen presenting cell ( apc ) but can also be induce by interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) on the majority of the non professional apc ( e.g. fibroblast ) .
we have recently characterise a new factor call ik which be an efficient inhibitor of ifn-gamma induction of mhc class ii antigen expression .
here , we demonstrate a novel role for ik in mhc class ii expression since over-expression of this protein by stable transfection into human b cell lead to a total disappearance of constitutive mhc class ii mrna expression .
the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) be necessary for both constitutive and ifn-gamma induced mhc class ii expression .
examination of ciita mrna in ik stably transfected clone reveal a marked reduction of ciita mrna transcription .
take together these result demonstrate that the ik protein play a key role in the constitutive expression of mhc class ii antigen and that inhibition induce by ik be upstream of ciita in this regulatory pathway .
signaling by il-2 and related cytokine : jak , stats , and relationship to immunodeficiency .
cytokine that bind to the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) receptor common gamma chain ( gamma c ) , include il-2 , il-4 , il-7 , il-9 , and il-15 , be important for the growth and differentiation of t and b lymphocyte , natural killer cell , macrophage , and monoctyes .
these cytokine have overlap biological effect that in part result from the use of the share receptor subunit gamma c .
recently it have become clear that these cytokine activate a number of important intracellular signal molecule , include the janus kinase jak1 and jak3 and member of the transcription factor family of signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stats ) .
the discovery of these signaling pathway have lead to important new insight into their role in lymphocyte maturation , a it have emerge that mutation in the gene encode both gamma c and jak3 result in similar form of severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) .
in this review we examine the structure and function of cytokine receptor and the signaling pathway involve in their regulation of gene expression .
furthermore , we discuss recent advance that have lead to a good understanding of how cytokine elicit intracellular response , as well a their role in normal lymphoid development .
protein kinase c-zeta mediate nf-kappa b activation in human immunodeficiency virus -infected monocyte .
the molecular mechanism regulate human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) persistence in a major cell reservoir such a the macrophage remain unknown .
nf-kappa b be a transcription factor involve in the regulation of the hiv long terminal repeat and be selectively activate follow hiv infection of human macrophage .
although little information a to what signal transduction pathway mediate nf-kappa b activation in monocytes-macrophages be available , our previous work indicate that classical protein kinase c ( pkc ) isoenzymes be not involve in the hiv -mediated nf-kappa b activation .
in this study , we have focus on atypical pkc isoenzymes .
pkc-zeta belong to this family and be know to be an important step in nf-kappa b activation in other cell system .
immunoblotting experiment with u937 cell demonstrate that pkc-zeta be present in these cell , and it expression can be downmodulated by antisense oligonucleotides ( ao ) .
the hiv -mediated nf-kappa b activation be selectively reduce by ao to pkc-zeta .
in addition , cotransfection of a negative dominant molecule of pkc-zeta ( pkc-zeta mut ) with nf-kappa b -dependent reporter gene selectively inhibit the hiv - but not phorbol myristate acetate- or lipopolysaccharide- mediated activation of nf-kappa b .
that pkc-zeta be specific in regulate nf-kappa b be conclude from the inability of pkc-zeta ( mut ) to interfere with the basal or phorbol myristate acetate -inducible creb - or ap1 -dependent transcriptional activity .
lastly , we demonstrate a selective inhibition of p24 production by hiv -infected human macrophage when treat with ao to pkc-zeta .
altogether , these result suggest that atypical pkc isoenzymes , include pkc-zeta , participate in the signal transduction pathway by which hiv infection result in the activation of nf-kappa b in human monocytic cell and macrophage .
interaction between nf-kappa b - and serum response factor -binding element activate an interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain enhancer specifically in t lymphocyte .
we find that a short enhancer element contain the nf-kappa b binding site from the interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain gene ( il-2r alpha ) be preferentially activate in t cell .
the il-2r alpha enhancer bind nf-kappa b poorly and be only weakly activate by the nf-kappa b site alone .
serum response factor ( srf ) bind to a site adjacent to the nf-kappa b site in the il-2r enhancer , and both site together have strong transcriptional activity specifically in t cell .
surprisingly , the level of srf constitutively express in t cell be consistently high than in other cell type .
overexpression of srf in b cell cause the il-2r enhancer to function as well a it do in t cell , suggest that the high level of srf binding in t cell be functionally important .
interleukin-2 induce tyrosine phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of stat3 in human t lymphocyte .
an early biochemical event associate with t cell activation through the interleukin-2 receptor ( il-2r ) be tyrosine phosphorylation of several intracellular substrate .
the exact mechanism by which il-2 regulate transcription of different gene be presently unknown .
here , we report that stimulation through the il-2r induced tyrosine phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocation of stat3 , a newly identify member of the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) family of protein .
in contrast , stat1 protein be not tyrosine phosphorylated after il-2 ligation , whereas tyrosine -phosphorylated stat1 protein ( 91 and 84 kda protein ) be translocate to the nucleus following interferon-gamma treatment of hela cell .
apart from stat3 , another cytoplasmic protein be tyrosine phosphorylated and subsequently translocate to the nucleus in response to il-2 .
this protein have an apparent molecular mass of 84 kda and be not recognize by stat3 or stat1 mab or antiserum .
since il-2 induced nuclear translocation of the 84 kda protein and stat3 follow identical kinetics , p84 be a candidate for a new , yet undefined , member of the stat family .
take together , we report that il-2 induce tyrosine phosphorylation and subsequent nuclear translocation of stat3 and an a yet undefined 84-kda protein in antigen-specific human t cell line .
activate platelet induce monocyte chemotactic protein-1 secretion and surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 on endothelial cell [ see comment ]
background : platelet/endothelium interaction play an important role in the pathophysiology of inflammation and atherosclerosis .
the role of platelet for monocyte chemotactic protein-1 ( mcp-1 ) secretion and surface expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) on endothelial cell have be assess .
method and result : monolayers of human umbilical vein endothelial cell be incubate with nonstimulated or adp-activated platelet for 6 hour , and secretion of mcp-1 and surface expression of icam-1 be determine by elisa and flow cytometry , respectively .
in the presence of adp-activated platelet , both mcp-1 secretion and icam-1 surface expression be significantly increase compare with nonstimulated platelet ( p < 0.02 ) .
activation of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) determine by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and kappab -dependent transcriptional activity be enhance in the presence of activate platelet .
in addition , adp- activated platelet induce mcp-1 and icam-1 promoter-dependent transcription .
liposomal transfection of a double-stranded kappab phosphorothioate oligonucleotide , but not of the mutated form , inhibit mcp-1 secretion and surface expression of icam-1 on activate endothelium ( p < 0.05 ) .
conclusion : the present study indicate that activate platelet modulate chemotactic ( mcp-1 ) and adhesive ( icam-1 ) property of endothelial cell via an nf-kappab -dependent mechanism .
platelet-induced activation of the nf-kappab system might contribute to early inflammatory event in atherogenesis .
tissue and cell-type specific expression of the tuberous sclerosis gene , tsc2 , in human tissue .
tsc2 be a gene on chromosome 16p13.3 associate with the autosomal dominant neurocutaneous disorder , tuberous sclerosis complex ( tsc ) .
by use a partial nucleotide sequence from the clone tsc2 and polymerase chain reaction methodology , we construct a digoxigenin-labeled complementary dna probe to examine tsc2 gene expression in autopsy- or biopsy-derived human tissue by in situ hybridization .
tsc2 messenger rna be widely express in various cell type throughout the body , include epithelium , lymphocyte , and cell with endocrine function , e.g. , adrenal cortex and anterior pituitary .
it be prominently and selectively ( within the central nervous system ) express in pyramidal cell of the cerebral cortex and other motor neuron , e.g. , in spinal cord and brainstem nucleus .
visceral tsc2 expression be comparable in autopsy tissue from patient with and without tsc ; tsc2 messenger rna expression be most prominent in cell with a rapid mitotic rate and turnover , e.g. , epithelium and lymphocyte , with central nervous system pyramidal cell and other neuron be an obvious exception , and/or in cell with important secretory/transport function .
this widespread expression of the tsc2 gene support the view that it encode a protein vital to cell growth and metabolism or one that function a a tumor/growth suppressor .
temperature-induced down-regulation of the glucocorticoid receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear leucocyte in patient with sepsis or septic shock .
objective : activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis be of vital importance during critical illness .
we have study the adaptive mechanism which occur at the level of the glucocorticoid receptor in glucocorticoid target tissue in patient with sepsis or septic shock .
design : the effect of hypercortisolaemia , hyperthermia and cellular composition on number of glucocorticoid receptor per cell and their affinity be evaluate , both in vitro and in vivo , in peripheral blood mononuclear leucocyte of control subject and in patient with sepsis or septic shock .
subject : fifteen patient ( age 25-79 ) with sepsis or septic shock who be admit to an intensive care unit be study .
the control group consist of 24 healthy laboratory employee .
measurement : the binding capacity and affinity of the glucocorticoid receptor be measure and compare to clinical data and the plasma cortisol concentration .
result : hypercortisolaemia , in vitro , result in a decrease affinity and a decrease binding capacity of the glucocorticoid receptor .
in vitro , hyperthermia as well a variation in the cellular composition do not influence the glucocorticoid receptor .
in vivo , there be no change in the number of receptor per cell in patient with sepsis or septic shock a compare to healthy control .
however , a decrease affinity of the glucocorticoid receptor be observe .
there be a weak but significant negative correlation between body temperature and the number of glucocorticoid receptor in the patient group .
there be no relation between circulate cortisol concentration and glucocorticoid receptor affinity and number .
conclusion : there be no obvious regulation of the number of glucocorticoid receptor by plasma cortisol concentration in vivo .
the decrease affinity of the glucocorticoid receptor together with the negative correlation between hyperthermia and the number of glucocorticoid receptor in patient with sepsis or septic shock suggest that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation during critical illness be accompany by peripheral adaptation in glucocorticoid receptor number and affinity .
monocytic differentiation of hl-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell correlate with the induction of bcl-xl .
treatment of human promyelocytic leukemia hl-60 cell with phorbol ester ultimately induce the differentiation of these cell along the monocyte/macrophage lineage , whereas treatment with retinoic acid or dmso induce granulocytic/neutrophillic differentiation .
in this study , we demonstrate the disparate fate of hl-60 cell treat with the phorbol ester 12,13-phorbol dibutyric acid ( pdbu ) or dmso .
after dmso treatment , hl-60 cell eventually die via apoptosis , whereas the viability of pdbu -treated cell be not affect during the same interval .
the level of the apoptosis effector protein bak and bad be enhance , whereas there be a slight down-regulation of the apoptosis suppressor protein bcl-2 after treatment of the cell with pdbu and dmso .
treatment with dmso result in the elevation of the apoptosis effector bax , whereas treatment with pdbu do not significantly alter the level of this protein .
however , treatment of hl-60 cell with pdbu induce the rapid expression of the apoptosis suppressor protein bcl-xl , whereas the expression of this protein remain unaltered in dmso -treated cell .
the generality of this finding be confirm by the induction of bcl-xl in human myeloid u-937 cell , human peripheral blood monocyte expose to phorbol ester , and mouse thioglycollate-activated and resident peritoneal macrophage .
pdbu -treated hl-60 cell remain viable for 7 day and thereafter begin to die via apoptosis , with a concomitant down-regulation of bcl-xl .
in conclusion , we propose that bcl-xl expression be associate with differentiation and survival of hematopoietic cell along the monocyte/macrophage lineage .
mutation in the tsc2 gene : analysis of the complete cod sequence use the protein truncation test ( ptt ) .
mutation in the tsc2 gene on chromosome 16p13.3 be responsible for approximately 50 % of familial tuberous sclerosis ( tsc ) .
the gene have 41 small exon span 45 kb of genomic dna and encode a 5.5 kb mrna .
large germline deletion of tsc2 occur in < 5 % of case , and a number of small intragenic mutation have be describe .
we analyse mrna from 18 unrelated case of tsc for tsc2 mutation use the protein truncation test ( ptt ) .
three case be predict to be tsc2 mutation on the basis of linkage analysis or because a hamartoma from the patient show loss of heterozygosity for 16p13.3 marker .
three overlap pcr product , cover the complete cod sequence of mrna , be generate from lymphoblastoid cell line , translate into 35s-methionine labelled protein , and analyse by sds-page .
pcr product show ptt shift be directly sequence , and mutation confirm by restriction enzyme digestion where possible .
six ptt shift be identify .
five of these be cause by mutation predict to produce a truncate protein : ( i ) a sporadic case show a 32 bp deletion in exon 11 , and a mutant mrna without exon 11 be produce ; the normal exon 10 be also splice out ; ( ii ) a sporadic case have a 1 bp deletion in exon 12 ( 1634delt ) ; ( iii ) a tsc2 -linked mother and daughter pair have a g --> t transversion in exon 23 ( g2715t ) introduce a cryptic splice site cause a 29 bp truncation of mrna from exon 23 ; ( iv ) a sporadic case show a 2 bp deletion in exon 36 ; ( v ) a sporadic case show a 1 bp insertion disrupt the donor splice site of exon 37 ( 5007+2insa ) , result in the use of an upstream exonic cryptic splice site to cause a 29 bp truncation of mrna from exon 37 .
in one case , the ptt shift be explain by in-frame splicing out of exon 10 , in the presence of a normal exon 10 genomic sequence .
alternative splicing of exon 10 of the tsc2 gene may be a normal variant .
three 3rd base substitution polymorphism be also detect during direct sequencing of pcr product .
confirm mutation be identify in 28 % of the family study and on the assumption that half of the sporadic case should have tsc2 mutation , a crude estimate of the detection rate would be 60 % .
this compare favourably with other screening method use for tsc2 , notably sscp , and since ptt involve much less work it may be the method of choice .
activation of protein kinase c and elevation of camp interact synergistically to raise c-fos and ap-1 activity in jurkat cell .
we have earlier find that in jurkat cell activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) enhance the cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( camp ) accumulation induce by adenosine receptor stimulation or activation of g .
here we have therefore examine the effect of the phorbol ester pma ( phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ) which stimulate pkc and a combination of the adenosine receptor agonist neca ( 5'-(n-ethyl)-carboxamido adenosine ) and forskolin to raise camp , on the level of c-fos and jun and on the bind and transcriptional activity of the transcription factor , activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) .
pma treatment cause a concentration- and time-dependent increase in both c-fos and jun immunoreactivity in contrast to camp elevation that have only a slight effect .
both pma and the combination of neca and forskolin act together either to increase ( c-fos ) or decrease ( jun ) protein level as well a increase ap-1 binding , a judge by gel-shift assay , and ap-1 transcriptional activity .
furthermore there be a clear-cut synergy between the pkc stimulator and the camp elevating agent .
the result demonstrate that the simultaneous activation of pkc and elevation of camp lead to an enhance ap-1 transcriptional activity in a t-leukemia cell line , suggest that the previously observe interaction between the parallel signal transduction pathway may have functional consequence at the level of gene transcription .
isolation and utilization of human dendritic cell from peripheral blood to assay an in vitro primary immune response to varicella-zoster virus peptide .
a human dendritic cell-based assay use to monitor a t cell proliferation response to viral peptide in vitro be describe .
dendritic cell and autologous cd4 + t cell be isolate from peripheral blood by a series of density-gradient centrifugation or magnetic bead separation ( or both ) .
peptide correspond to residue of the immediate early protein , ie62 , of varicella-zoster virus ( vzv ) be use a stimulate antigen , and person with no history of varicella and no humoral or cellular immunity to vzv serve a naive donor for the assay .
three vzv -susceptible donor be test , and all demonstrate an in vitro response to multiple vzv peptide .
this assay have potential a a screen to establish the immunogenicity of viral antigen in vitro use t cell from naive donor .
bash , a novel signal molecule preferentially express in b cell of the bursa of fabricius .
the bursa of fabricius be a gut-associated lymphoid organ that be essential for the generation of a diversified b cell repertoire in the chicken .
we describe here a novel gene preferentially express in bursal b cell .
the gene encode an 85-kda protein , designate bash ( b cell adaptor contain sh2 domain ) , that contain n-terminal acidic domain with sh2 domain-binding phosphotyrosine-based motif , a proline -rich domain , and a c-terminal sh2 domain .
bash show a substantial sequence similarity to slp-76 , an adaptor protein function in tcr -signal transduction .
bash become tyrosine -phosphorylated with the b cell ag receptor ( bcr ) cross-link or by coexpression with syk and lyn and associate with signal molecule include syk and a putative chicken shc homologue .
overexpression of bash result in suppression of the nf-at activation induce by bcr -cross-linking .
these finding suggest that bash be involve in bcr -mediated signal transduction and could play a critical role in b cell development in the bursa .
transcriptional activity of core binding factor- alpha ( aml1 ) and beta subunit on murine leukemia virus enhancer core .
core binding factor ( cbf ) , also know a polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein 2 and sl3 enhancer factor 1 , be a mammalian transcription factor that bind to an element term the core within the enhancer of the murine leukemia virus family of retrovirus .
the core element of the sl3 virus be important genetic determinant of the ability of this virus to induce t-cell lymphoma and the transcriptional activity of the viral long terminal repeat in t lymphocyte .
cbf consist of two subunit , a dna binding subunit , cbf alpha , and a second subunit , cbf beta , that stimulate the dna binding activity of cbf alpha .
one of the gene that encode a cbf alpha subunit be aml1 , also call cbf alpha 2 .
this locus be rearrange by chromosomal translocation in human myeloproliferative disorder and leukemia .
an exogenously express cbf alpha 2 -encoded subunit ( cbf alpha 2-451 ) stimulate transcription from the sl3 enhancer in p19 and hela cell .
activity be mediate through the core element .
three different isoforms of cbf beta be also test for transcriptional activity on the sl3 enhancer .
the long form , cbf beta -187 , increase the transcriptional stimulation by cbf alpha 2-451 twofold in hela cell , although it have no effect in p19 cell .
transcriptional activation by cbf beta require binding to the cbf alpha subunit , a a form of cbf beta that lack binding ability , cbf beta -148 , fail to increase activity .
these result indicate that at least in certain cell type , the maximum activity of cbf require both subunit .
they also provide support for the hypothesis that cbf be a factor in t lymphocyte that be responsible for recognition of the sl3 core .
we also examine whether cbf could distinguish a 1-bp difference between the enhancer core of sl3 and the core of the nonleukemogenic virus , akv .
this difference strongly affect transcription in t cell and leukemogenicity of sl3 .
however , no combination of cbf alpha and cbf beta subunit that we test be able to distinguish the 1-bp difference in transcription assay .
thus , a complete understanding of how t cell recognize the sl3 core remain to be elucidate .
bcl-6 mutation in normal germinal center b cell : evidence of somatic hypermutation act outside ig locus .
the molecular mechanism involve in the process of antigen-driven somatic hypermutation of ig gene be unknown , but it be commonly believe that this mechanism be restricted to the ig locus .
b cell lymphoma commonly display multiple somatic mutation cluster in the 5'-regulatory region of bcl-6 , a proto-oncogene encode for a poz/zinc finger transcriptional repressor express in germinal center ( gc ) b cell and require for gc formation .
to determine whether bcl-6 mutation represent a tumor-associated phenomenon or reflect a physiologic mechanism , we screen single human tonsillar gc b cell for mutation occur in the bcl-6 5'-noncoding region and in the ig variable heavy chain sequence .
thirty percent of gc b cell , but not naive b cell , display mutation in the 742 bp region analyze within the first intron of bcl-6 ( overall frequency : 5 x 10(-4)/bp ) .
accordingly , an expand survey in lymphoid malignancy show that bcl-6 mutation be restricted to b cell tumor display gc or post-gc phenotype and carry mutate ig variable heavy chain sequence .
these result indicate that the somatic hypermutation mechanism active in gc b cell physiologically target non-ig sequence .
inhibition of hiv-1 replication and nf-kappa b activity by cysteine and cysteine derivative .
hiv-1 proviral dna contain two bind site for the transcription factor nf-kappa b .
hiv-1 -infected individual have , on average , abnormally high level of tumour necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) and abnormally low plasma cysteine level .
we therefore investigate the effect of cysteine and related thiols on hiv-1 replication and nf-kappa b expression .
the experiment in this report show that cysteine or n-acetylcysteine ( nac ) raise the intracellular glutathione ( gsh ) level and inhibit hiv-1 replication in persistently infected molt-4 and u937 cell .
however , inhibition of hiv-1 replication appear not to be directly correlate with gsh level .
cysteine and nac also inhibit nf-kappa b activity a determine by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase ( cat ) gene expression under control of nf-kappa b binding site in uninfected cell .
this suggest that the cysteine deficiency in hiv-1 -infected individual may cause an over-expression of nf-kappa b -dependent gene and enhance hiv-1 replication .
nac may be consider for the treatment of hiv-1 -infected individual .
hiv enhancer activity perpetuate by nf-kappa b induction on infection of monocyte [ see comment ]
permissiveness to replication of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) differ in t lymphocyte and macrophage .
in t cell , hiv transcription be poorly detect in vivo .
clone , normal t lymphocyte show very little , if any , basal activity of the hiv enhancer and low nuclear expression of nf-kappa b , a potent transcriptional activator of the hiv enhancer .
in contrast , fixed tissue macrophage express detectable hiv protein , indicate permanent virus transcription .
one explanation for the perpetuation of virus infection in macrophage could be sustained nuclear nf-kappa b expression .
however , the u937 monocytic cell line , which be fully permissive to hiv replication , be know to express only low level of nuclear nf-kappa b .
we show here that chronic hiv infection result in both induction of a nuclear factor with antigenic property indistinguishable from those of nf-kappa b and permanently increase hiv enhancer activity .
this phenomenon , which be independent of tumour necrosis factor , be associate with hiv replication , and be thus likely to explain at least in part the perpetuation of hiv infection in monocyte .
the role of e-proteins in b- and t- lymphocyte development .
department of lymphocyte from hematopoietic stem cell be control , in part , by the activity of transcriptional regulatory protein .
in particular , one class of helix-loop-helix protein , term e-proteins , have be implicate in the regulation of gene expression during b-cell development .
recent analysis of gene-targeted mouse have allow a direct assessment of the functional role of several e-protein family member in hematopoiesis .
in this review we describe the defect in b- and t- lymphocyte development in mouse carry target mutation in the e-protein gene and discuss our current understanding of the role of these protein in lymphoid development
transcription factor activation in lymphokine activated killer cell and lymphocyte from patient receive il-2 immunotherapy .
administration of the cytokine interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) can result in therapeutic benefit for individual with renal cell carcinoma and melanoma .
here we report an analysis of the transcription factor family ap-1 , sp1 , nf-kappab , and signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) in cancer patient ' lymphocyte before and after il-2 immunotherapy , a assess by a gel-shift assay .
an in vitro surrogate of il-2 immunotherapy be the incubation of fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) from healthy individual in il-2 for several day , result in the production of lymphokine -activated killer ( lak ) activity in these culture .
one purpose of this study be to describe the profile of transcription factor activation in these different population , and assess whether the pattern observe correlate with functional difference in these cell .
prior to in vivo il-2 administration , the typical binding pattern of transcription factor in pbmc from patient resemble that see in fresh pbmc from healthy individual .
over a 3-week course of il-2 therapy , in most patient the binding pattern of ap-1 , sp1 , and nf-kappab protein change to resemble those see in pbmc activate by il-2 in vitro .
however , the cell obtain from il-2 -treated patient do not have low-level constitutive expression of stat binding factor a do lak cell .
when these patient cell be far stimulate by il-2 in vitro , additional difference in stat induction pattern be note .
these data provide further information on the molecular event occur in immune cell generate through in vivo and in vitro administration of il-2 , and far document that there be not a precise congruence between pbmc activate in vivo and in vitro by il-2 .
activation of the hiv-1 enhancer by the lef-1 hmg protein on nucleosome-assembled dna in vitro .
lymphoid enhancer-binding factor 1 ( lef-1 ) be a regulatory high mobility group ( hmg ) protein that activate the t cell receptor alpha ( tcr alpha ) enhancer in a context-restricted manner in t cell .
in this paper we demonstrate that the distal region of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( hiv-1 ) enhancer , which contain dna-binding site for lef-1 and ets-1 , also provide a functional context for activation by lef-1 .
first , we show that mutation in the lef-1 -binding site inhibit the activity of multimerized copy of the hiv-1 enhancer in jurkat t cell , and that lef-1 /gal4 can activate a gal4-substituted hiv-1 enhancer 80- to 100-fold in vivo .
second , recombinant lef-1 be show to activate hiv-1 transcription on chromatin-assembled dna in vitro .
by use a nucleosome -assembly system derive from drosophila embryo , we find that the packaging of dna into chromatin in vitro strongly repress hiv-1 transcription and that repression can be counteract efficiently by preincubation of the dna with lef-1 ( or lef-1 and ets-1 ) supplement with fraction contain the promoter-binding protein , sp1 .
addition of tfe-3 , which bind to an e-box motif upstream of the lef-1 and ets-1 site , far augment transcription in this system .
individually or collectively , none of the three enhancer-binding protein ( lef-1 , ets-1 , and tfe-3 ) could activate transcription in the absence of sp1 .
a truncation mutant of lef-1 ( hmg-88 ) , which contain the hmg box but lack the trans-activation domain , do not activate transcription from nucleosomal dna , indicate that bending of dna by the hmg domain be not sufficient to activate transcription in vitro .
we conclude that transcription activation by lef-1 in vitro be a chromatin -dependent process that require a functional trans-activation domain in addition to the hmg domain .
regulation of nuclear factor-kappa b and it inhibitor i kappa b-alpha/mad-3 in monocyte by mycobacterium tuberculosis and during human tuberculosis .
blood monocyte from patient with active tuberculosis be activate in vivo , a evidence by an increase in the stimulate release of proinflammatory cytokine , such a tnf -alpha , and the spontaneous expression of il-2r .
far , monocyte from patient demonstrate an augmented susceptibility to a productive infection with hiv-1 in vitro .
mycobacterium tuberculosis and it component be strong signal to activate monocyte to production of cytokine .
in this study we examine the basis of activation of monocyte during active tuberculosis and by m. tuberculosis .
we find a constitutive degradation of i kappa b-alpha , the major cytoplasmic inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , in freshly isolate pbmc and monocyte from patient with tuberculosis .
in contrast , i kappa b-alpha level in pbmc and monocyte from healthy subject or from patient with nontuberculous pulmonary condition be intact .
far , by electrophoretic mobility shift assay , nf-kappa b be activate in monocyte from tuberculous patient .
the expression of i kappa b-alpha gene , which be responsive to activation by nf-kappa b , be up-regulated in pbmc and monocyte from patient , but not in mononuclear cell from healthy subject or those with nontuberculous lung disease .
by contrast , the expression of other adherence-associated early gene , such a il-8 and il-1 beta , be not up-regulated in pbmc of tuberculous patient .
far , m. tuberculosis and it tuberculin , purify protein derivative , induce the degradation of i kappa b-alpha and the expression of i kappa b-alpha mrna , and purify protein derivative induce the activation of nf-kappa b in monocyte .
a novel retinoic acid receptor ( rar ) -selective antagonist inhibit differentiation and apoptosis of hl-60 cell : implication of raralpha -mediated signal in myeloid leukemic cell .
retinoic acid ( ra ) induce hl-60 cell to differentiate terminally into mature granulocyte , which subsequently die by apoptosis .
the biological effect of ra be mediate by two distinct family of transcription factor : retinoic acid receptor ( rars ) and retinoid x receptor ( rxrs ) .
rars and rxrs form heterodimers and regulate retinoid-mediated gene expression .
we have recently develop a novel rar -selective antagonist ( er27191 ) which prevent rar activation by retinoids .
use this rar-selective antagonist , and rxr and rar agonist , we demonstrate the rar -mediated signaling pathway be important for differentiation and apoptosis of myeloid leukemic cell .
simple activation of rxrs be not sufficient to induce apoptosis of the cell .
interestingly , the combination of the rar-selective antagonist and 9-cis ra result in partial differentiation and apoptosis of hl-60 and nb4 cell , whereas the rar antagonist completely block all-trans ra -induced differentiation and apoptosis of the cell .
additional experiment show that level of bcl-2 protein decrease during differentiation of myeloid leukemic cell .
furthermore , hl-60 cell transduce with a bcl-2 expression vector show the same differentiation response to retinoids a do parental hl-60 cell even though apoptosis be inhibit in these bcl-2-transduced cell , suggest that differentiation and apoptosis be regulate independently in myeloid leukemic cell .
the pebp2betamyh11 fusion create by inv(16)(p13;q22) in myeloid leukemia impair neutrophil maturation and contribute to granulocytic dysplasia .
chromosomal translocation involve the gene encode the alpha and beta subunit of the pebp2/cbf transcription factor have be associate with human acute myeloid leukemia and the preleukemic condition , myelodysplasia .
inv(16)(p13;q22) fuse the gene encode the beta subunit of pebp2 to the myh11 gene encode a smooth muscle myosin heavy chain ( smmhc ) .
to examine the effect of the inv(16)(p13;q22) on myelopoiesis , we use the hmrp8 promoter element to generate transgenic mouse express the pebp2beta smmhc chimeric fusion protein in myeloid cell .
neutrophil maturation be impaired in pebp2betamyh11 transgenic mouse .
although the transgenic mouse have normal number of circulate neutrophil , their bone marrow contain increase number of immature neutrophilic cell , which exhibit abnormal characteristic .
in addition , pebp2betamyh11 inhibit neutrophilic differentiation in colony derive from hematopoietic progenitor .
coexpression of both pebp2betamyh11 and activate nra induce a more severe phenotype characterize by abnormal nuclear morphology indicative of granulocytic dysplasia .
these result show that pebp2betamyh11 can impair neutrophil development and provide evidence that alteration of pebp2 can contribute to the genesis of myelodysplasia .
in vivo modification of major histocompatibility complex class ii dra promoter occupancy mediate by the air-1 trans-activator .
rj 2.2.5 be a human b cell mutant derive from the burkitt lymphoma raji cell which be defective in the air-1 locus function .
this locus encode a transcriptional trans-activator require for the constitutive expression of major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii gene .
here we show , by in vivo dnase i footprinting , that the air-1 locus defect correlate with change in the dra promoter occupancy .
interestingly , reexpression of human mhc class ii gene in rj 2.2.5 x mouse spleen cell hybrid be associate with partial reversion of dra promoter occupancy to the raji pattern .
dra promoter occupancy in other class ii-negative b cell line , derive from patient with bare lymphocyte syndrome , be drastically different from the one observe in rj 2.2.5 and raji cell .
moreover , the use of the dnase i a an in vivo footprinting agent reveal that the patient ' cell line do not display a completely " bare promoter " a previously report use dimethyl sulfate a the footprinting agent .
thus , the use of dnase i allow u , for the first time , to correlate the air-1 locus defect with class ii promoter occupancy alteration and distinguish these alteration from the one observe in phenotypically similar but genetically distinct mhc class ii-negative cell .
c-myb and ets protein synergize to overcome transcriptional repression by zeb .
the zfh family of zinc finger/homeodomain protein be first identify in drosophila where it be require for differentiation of tissue such a the central nervous system and muscle .
zeb , a vertebrate homolog of zfh-1 , bind a subset of e box and block myogenesis through transcriptional repression of muscle gene .
we present evidence here that zeb also have an important role in control hematopoietic gene transcription .
two family of transcription factor that be require for normal hematopoiesis be c-myb and ets .
these factor act synergistically to activate transcription , and this synergy be require for transcription of at least several important hematopoietic gene .
zeb block the activity of c-myb and ets individually , but together the factor synergize to resist this repression .
such repression impose a requirement for both c-myb and ets for transcriptional activity , provide one explanation for why synergy between these factor be important .
the balance between repression by zeb and transcriptional activation by c-myb /ets provide a flexible regulatory mechanism for control gene expression in hematopoietic cell .
we demonstrate that one target of this positive/negative regulation in vivo be the alpha4 integrin , which play a key role in normal hematopoiesis and function of mature leukocyte .
specific complex formation between the type ii bare lymphocyte syndrome-associated transactivators ciita and rfx5 .
two of the gene defective in the five complementation group identify in the class ii-negative bare lymphocyte syndrome or corresponding laboratory mutant have be clone .
one gene encode a protein , rfx5 , that be a member of the rfx family of dna binding protein .
the other , ciita , encode a large protein with a define acidic transcriptional activation domain ; this protein do not interact with dna .
expression plasmid encode region of rfx5 fuse to the gal4 dna binding domain activate transcription from a reporter construct contain gal4 site in a cotransfection assay in the raji human b cell line .
however , these plasmid produce transcriptional activity in hela cell only in conjunction with interferon gamma stimulation , a condition in which expression of both ciita and class ii major histocompatibility complex surface protein be induced.
furthermore , these plasmid be not active in rj2.2.5 , an in vitro mutagenized derivative of raji in which both copy of ciita be defective .
transcriptional activation by the rfx5 fusion protein could be restore in rj2.2.5 by cotransfection with a ciita expression plasmid .
finally , a direct interaction between rfx5 and ciita be detect with the yeast two-hybrid and far-western blot assay .
thus , rfx5 can activate transcription only in cooperation with ciita .
rfx5 and ciita associate to form a complex capable of activate transcription from class ii major histocompatibility complex promoter .
in this complex , promoter specificity be determine by the dna binding domain of rfx5 and the general transcription apparatus be recruit by the acidic activation domain of ciita .
glucocorticoid receptor and inhibition of 3-o-methyl-d-glucose uptake by glucocorticoid in peripheral blood leukocyte from normal human : correlation between receptor level and hormone effect in vitro .
we have measure the glucocorticoid receptor concentration in mononuclear and polymorphonuclear leukocyte , both of which be isolate from peripheral blood from ten healthy male volunteer .
in parallel , the inhibitory effect of dexamethasone on 3-o-methyl-d-glucose uptake be assay in the corresponding mononuclear leukocyte .
the glucocorticoid receptor level in mononuclear leukocyte correlate with those in polymorphonuclear leukocyte , and there be a linear relationship between the cellular glucocorticoid receptor level and glucocorticoid -mediated inhibition of the uptake of 3-o-methyl-d-glucose in mononuclear leukocyte .
when mononuclear leukocyte be incubate in the presence of 8-bromo-camp , cellular glucocorticoid receptor level increase and a more pronounced inhibitory effect of dexamethasone be observe on the transport of 3-o-methyl-d-glucose .
we conclude that the cellular glucocorticoid receptor level in peripheral blood leukocyte reflect in vitro responsiveness to glucocorticoid in mononuclear leukocyte from healthy male , and that the individual responsiveness may alter upon change in the cellular level of glucocorticoid receptor .
comparative analysis of nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) complex in human t and b lymphocyte .
nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) be a transcriptional activator that bind to sequence in the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) promoter and be think to be largely responsible for the t cell-specific inducibility of il-2 expression .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) show that specific nfat binding activity could also be induce in human b cell .
the b cell nfat complex , however , be not functional , since it fail to activate transcription from an nfat -driven chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) construct .
competition with an ap-1 motif or with anti-jun and anti-fos antibody abolish binding to the nfat motif in both t and b cell , indicate that jun and fo be critical for nfat complex formation in both cell type .
purify recombinant jun and fo protein fail to bind directly to the nfat motif .
however , when combine with unstimulated b or t cell extract , full-length , but not truncate , jun/fos heterodimers be able to form an nfat complex , indicate the presence of a constitutively express nuclear factor ( s ) in b and t cell necessary for the formation of the nfat complex in both cell type .
an nfat oligonucleotide carry mutation in the 5' purine-rich part of the nfat sequence fail to form a complex and to compete with the wild type motif for nfat complex formation in both t and b cell .
we therefore propose a model whereby a core nfat complex consist of jun , fo , and a constitutive nuclear factor be form in both t and b cell , but an additional factor and/or post-translational modification of a factor , miss in b cell , might be require for transactivation by nfat .
n- and c-terminal sequence control degradation of mad3/ i kappa b alpha in response to inducer of nf-kappa b activity .
the proteolytic degradation of the inhibitory protein mad3/ i kappa b alpha in response to extracellular stimulation be a prerequisite step in the activation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b .
analysis of the expression of human i kappa b alpha protein in stable transfectants of mouse 70z/3 cell show that , a for the endogenous murine protein , exogenous i kappa b alpha be degrade in response to inducer of nf-kappa b activity , such a phorbol myristate acetate or lipopolysaccharide .
in addition , pretreatment of the cell with the proteasome inhibitor n-ac-leu-leu-norleucinal inhibit this ligand-induced degradation and , in agreement with previous study , stabilize a hyperphosphorylated form of the human i kappa b alpha protein .
by express mutant form of the human protein in this cell line , we have be able to delineate the sequence responsible for both the ligand-induced phosphorylation and the degradation of i kappa b alpha .
our result show that deletion of the c terminus of the i kappa b alpha molecule up to amino acid 279 abolish constitutive but not ligand-inducible phosphorylation and inhibit ligand-inducible degradation .
further analysis reveal that the inducible phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha map to two serine in the n terminus of the protein ( residue 32 and 36 ) and that the mutation of either residue be sufficient to abolish ligand-induced degradation , whereas both residue must be mutate to abolish inducible phosphorylation of the protein .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
solution structure of the sequence-specific hmg box of the lymphocyte transcriptional activator sox-4 .
two group of hmg box protein be distinguish .
protein in the first group contain multiple hmg box , be non-sequence-specific , and recognize structural feature a find in cruciform dna and cross-over dna .
the abundant chromosomal protein hmg-1 belong to this subgroup .
protein in the second group carry a single hmg box with affinity for the minor groove of the heptamer motif aacaaag or variation thereof .
a solution structure for the non-sequence-specific c-terminal hmg box of hmg-1 have recently be propose .
now , we report the solution structure of the sequence-specific hmg-box of the sry-related protein sox-4 .
nmr analysis demonstrate the presence of three alpha-helices ( val10-gln22 , glu30-leu41 and phe50-tyr65 ) connect by loop region ( ser23-ala49 and leu42-pro49 ) .
helix i and ii be positioned in an antiparallel mode and form one arm of the hmg box .
helix iii be less rigid , make an average angle of about 90 degree with helix i and ii , and constitute the other arm of the molecule .
a in hmg1b , the overall structure of the sox-4 hmg box be l-shaped and be maintain by a cluster of conserve , mainly aromatic residue .
an enhancer-blocking element between alpha and delta gene segment within the human t cell receptor alpha/delta locus .
t cell receptor ( tcr ) alpha and delta gene segment be organize within a single genetic locus but be differentially regulate during t cell development .
an enhancer-blocking element ( bead-1 , for block element alpha/delta 1 ) be localized to a 2.0-kb region 3' of tcr delta gene segment and 5' of tcr alpha joining gene segment within this locus .
bead-1 block the ability of the tcr delta enhancer ( edelta ) to activate a promoter when located between the two in a chromatin-integrated construct .
we propose that bead-1 function a a boundary that separate the tcr alpha/delta locus into distinct regulatory domain control by edelta and the tcr alpha enhancer , and that it prevent edelta from open the chromatin of the tcr alpha joining gene segment for vdj recombination at an early stage of t cell development .
homodimerization of the human interleukin 4 receptor alpha chain induce cepsilon germline transcript in b cell in the absence of the interleukin 2 receptor gamma chain .
the cytokine interleukin ( il ) -4 and il-13 play a critical role in induce cepsilon germline transcript and ige isotype switching in human b cell .
the il-4 receptor ( il-4r ) in b cell be compose of two chain , the il-4-binding il-4ralpha chain , which be share with the il-13r , and the il-2rgamma ( gammac ) chain , which be share with il-7r , il-9r , and il-15r .
il-4 induce cepsilon germline transcript and ige isotype switching in b cell from patient with gammac chain deficiency .
induction of cepsilon germline transcript by il-4 in b cell that lack the gammac chain may involve signaling via the il-13r .
alternatively , the il-4ralpha chain may transduce intracellular signal that lead to cepsilon gene transcription independently of it association with other chain .
we show that ligand-induced homodimerization of chimeric surface receptor consist of the extracellular and transmembrane domain of the erythropoietin receptor and of the intracellular domain of il-4ralpha induce janus kinase 1 ( jak1 ) activation , stat6 activation , and cepsilon germline transcript in human b cell line bjab .
disruption of the jak1 -binding proline-rich box1 region of il-4ralpha abolish signaling by this chimeric receptor .
furthermore , b cell transfected with a chimeric cd8alpha/il-4ralpha receptor , which be express on the cell surface a a homodimer , constitutively express cepsilon germline transcript .
these result suggest that homodimerization of the il-4ralpha chain be sufficient to transduce jak1 -dependent intracellular signal that lead to ige isotype switching .
human t-cell leukemia virus type i tax associate with and be negatively regulate by the nf-kappa b2 p100 gene product : implication for viral latency .
human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) be the etiologic agent of the adult t-cell leukemia , an aggressive and often fatal malignancy of activate human cd4 t cell .
htlv-i encode an essential 40-kda protein term tax that not only transactivates the long terminal repeat of this retrovirus but also induce an array of cellular gene .
tax -mediated transformation of t cell likely involve the deregulate expression of various cellular gene that normally regulate lymphocyte growth produce by altered activity of various endogenous host transcription factor .
in particular , tax be capable of modulate the expression or activity of various host transcription factor , include member of the nf-kappa b/rel and creb/atf family , as well a the cellular factor heb-1 and p67srf .
an additional distinguishing characteristic of htlv-i infection be the profound state of viral latency that be present in circulate primary leukemic t cell .
in this study , we demonstrate that htlv-i tax can physically associate with p100 , the product of the rel-related nf-kappa b2 gene , both in transfected cell and in htlv-i -infected leukemic t-cell line .
furthermore , the physical interaction of tax with p100 lead to the inhibition of tax -induced activation of the htlv-i and human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat , reflect p100 -mediated cytoplasmic sequestration of the normally nuclearly express tax protein .
in contrast , a mutant of tax that selectively fail to activate nuclear nf-kappa b expression do not associate with p100 .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
a p56lck -independent pathway of cd2 signaling involve jun kinase .
the p56 src family non-receptor tyrosine kinase have be show to be critical for t lymphocyte differentiation and activation .
hence in the absence of p56 , t cell receptor triggered activation do not occur .
we now provide evidence for a cd2 -based signaling pathway which , in contrast to that of the t cell receptor , be independent of p56 .
cd2 -mediated interleukin-2 production occur via activation of jun kinase in cell line lack p56 .
jun kinase then facilitate the binding of c-jun/c-fos heterodimers to the ap-1 consensus site and the subsequent transcriptional activity of the interleukin-2 promoter .
these data elucidate difference between tcr and cd2 signaling pathway in the same t cell .
activation of the signal transducer and transcription ( stat ) signaling pathway in a primary t cell response .
critical role for il-6 .
the t cell activation be initiate by interaction of specific ag with tcr , follow by activation of intracellular biochemical event lead to activation of several gene .
the activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein in a primary tcr -mediated activation of t cell have be explore .
in purify human peripheral blood t cell , nuclear stat protein be activate approximately 3 h after activation by cross-linked anti-cd3 ab .
these stat protein be detect by use the ifn-gamma-activated sequence ( gas ) and related oligonucleotides a probe in electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
analysis of the nuclear extract with anti-stat ab indicate that they contain stat-3 and additional protein crossreactive with the stat family .
the induction of stat activity be inhibit completely by pretreatment with either cycloheximide or cyclosporin a , thus indicate that the induction be due to a secondary factor produce by the activate t cell .
a neutralizing anti- il-6 ab effectively down-regulated the early induction of stat protein and a exogenously add il-6 rapidly activate dna binding similar to tcr -mediated binding , it can be conclude that il-6 be the factor responsible for the activation of stat protein in a primary t cell response .
functional antagonism between vitamin d3 and retinoic acid in the regulation of cd14 and cd23 expression during monocytic differentiation of u-937 cell .
1,25 alpha-dihydroxicholecalciferol ( vitd3 ) and retinoic acid ( ra ) be important regulator of the proliferation and differentiation of several cell type .
this paper describe how the expression of the monocyte-macrophage ag , cd14 , and the low affinity fc receptor for ige , cd23 , be inversely regulate during vitd3 - and ra-induced monocytic differentiation of human u-937 monoblast .
pma induce the expression of both cd14 and cd23 mrna and protein .
exposure to vitd3 rapidly induce the de novo expression of cd14 mrna and protein .
the addition of cycloheximide completely block the vitd3 induction of cd14 mrna expression , indicate that the induction be dependent on ongoing protein synthesis .
while induce cd14 expression , vitd3 concomitantly suppress the basal , pma- , and ra- inducible cd23 expression in a dose-dependent manner .
in contrast , u-937 cell induce by ra strongly increase their expression of cd23 mrna and protein , whereas they completely lack detectable cd14 cell surface or mrna expression .
furthermore , the vitd3 - and the pma -induced cd14 expression be inhibit a a temporal consequence of the ra-induced differentiation .
the result suggest that there exist a functional antagonism between vitd3 and ra that may have important implication for the regulation of certain immune and inflammatory response through their inverse effect on cd14 and cd23 gene expression .
inhibition of anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody -induced t-cell proliferation by dexamethasone , isoproterenol , or prostaglandin e2 either alone or in combination .
1 .
the purpose of these study be to investigate the modulation of the proliferation of human t cell obtain from peripheral blood by dexamethasone ( dex ) , isoproterenol ( iso ) , and prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) .
the former two substance interact with t cell via the glucocorticoid and beta-adrenergic receptor respectively .
when occupy by their natural ligand , glucocorticosteroids and catecholamine , these receptor have a role in modulate t-cell function during stress .
during the inflammatory response increase level of pge2 bind to their receptor on t cell and thus alter responsiveness .
proliferation of t cell be induce by immobilize anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) in the presence or absence of an additional costimulatory signal deliver by anti-cd28 mab .
2 .
various physiologic concentration of dex , iso , or pge2 be add at the time of initiation of the culture and subsequent proliferation of the unstimulated t cell be determine .
the result demonstrate that physiologic concentration of all three of these agent inhibit the anti-cd3 mab -induced proliferation of t cell .
3 .
although dex and pge2 be equipotent in suppressing t-cell proliferation , iso be much less effective .
4 .
because concomitant elevation in the peripheral level of these substance may occur , experiment be perform to determine the t-cell inhibitory effect of dex together with either pge2 or iso .
synergistic suppression of t-cell proliferation be observe when various concentration of dex and pge2 , but not dex and iso , be add to culture .
this synergistic suppression could not be explain by an increase in camp accumulation in t cell stimulate with dex and pge2 .
5 .
finally , the addition of anti-cd28 mab to anti-cd3 mab-stimulated t cell overcome much of the suppression of proliferation induce by pge2 or iso but less so than that induce by dex .
activation of nf-kappa b by interleukin 2 in human blood monocyte .
we report here that interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) act on human blood monocyte by enhance binding activity of the transcription factor nf-kappa b to it consensus sequence in the 5' regulatory enhancer region of the il-2 receptor alpha chain ( p55 ) .
similarly , il-2 activate nf-kappa b in the human monocytic cell line u 937 , but not in rest human t-cells .
this effect be detectable within 15 min and peak 1 h after exposure to il-2 .
enhance nf-kappa b binding activity be follow by functional activation in that inducibility of the il-2 receptor alpha chain be mediate by enhance nf-kappa b binding and that a heterologous promoter contain the nf-kappa b consensus sequence ( -291 to -245 ) of the il-2 receptor alpha chain gene be activate .
in addition , il-2 be capable of increase transcript level of the p50 gene cod for the p50 subunit of the nf-kappa b transcription factor , whereas mrna level of the p65 nf-kappa b gene remain unchanged .
pharmacological control of antigen responsiveness in genetically modify t lymphocyte .
a chimeric tcr gene , comprise an anti-hapten single-chain ab variable fragment fuse to the transmembrane and cytoplasmic region of the human tcr zeta-chain , be use to determine whether the tetracycline-regulatable system could be use to regulate gene expression in t cell .
jurkat t cell be stably transfected with a single vector encode the tetracycline trans-activator protein , control by a constitutive promoter , and the chimeric tcr , under the control of a trans-activator protein-responsive promoter .
in the absence of tetracycline , the transfected t cell be show to express the chimeric receptor on the cell surface and could be activate by it cognate ag , lead to the secretion of il-2 .
when the cell be expose to increase concentration of tetracycline , surface expression of the chimeric receptor be suppress in a dose-dependent manner , and this suppression be sufficient to result in complete loss of responsiveness to the target ag .
prolonged suppression of trans- gene expression for up to 7 day be observe after doxycycline be remove from the culture , but eventual recovery of surface expression be complete , and the absolute time to recovery be directly proportional to the initial concentration of the drug .
pharmacologic control of trans-gene expression in gene-modified t cell will not only facilitate new approach to the study of different aspect of t cell biology , but will also provide the basis for new gene therapy strategy .
glucocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte in anorexia nervosa .
objective : the aim be to explore the down-regulation of the glucocorticoid receptor during hypercortisolaemia in anorexia nervosa .
design : urine and plasma sample be obtain for cortisol determination and blood lymphocyte be isolate for receptor binding study .
patient : sixteen anorexic patient , aged 16-27 year , with a mean +/- sem body mass index of 14.2 +/- 2.0 ( range from 11.1 to 17.4 ) , and 15 normal woman be study .
six patient be reinvestigated after a significant weight gain .
measurement : the binding capacity and affinity of the glucocorticoid receptor be measure with dexamethasone a ligand on lymphocyte .
result : in patient , both total and free plasma cortisol concentration be high than in the normal woman , a be their urinary free cortisol ; the number of glucocorticoid receptor per cell ( ro ) and the binding affinity ( kd ) for dexamethasone be , however , not significantly different ( ro : 7687 +/- 1750 v 7347 +/- 1285 sites/cell ; kd : 7.7 +/- 2.4 v 7.4 +/- 1.7 nm at 24 degree c ) .
after weight gain ( 14 +/- 2 to 16 +/- 2 kg/m2 ) , receptor number be 8421 +/- 2126 ( pre ) and 9011 +/- 500 ( post ) sites/cell , which be not significantly different ( p great than 0.2 ) ; the kd be unchanged ( 9.3 +/- 2.6 v 9.2 +/- 2.4 nm ) .
conclusion hypercortisolaemia do not down-regulate the lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor in anorexia nervosa and a post-receptor defect might be involve in peripheral tissue resistance to the effect of glucocorticoid hormone in undernutrition .
transactivation of the human immunodeficiency virus promoter by human herpesvirus 6 ( hhv-6 ) strain g and z-29 in primary human t lymphocyte and identification of transactivating hhv-6 ( g ) gene fragment .
human herpesvirus 6 ( hhv-6 ) can activate the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) promoter and accelerate cytopathic effect in hiv-infected human t cell .
this study examine the region of the hiv promoter require for hhv-6 transactivation in a heterogeneous population of primary human t lymphocyte with or without antigenic stimulation .
two different strain of hhv-6 , g and z29 , transactivated the hiv promoter .
the g strain transactivated the promoter in both stimulate and rest t cell , while the z29 strain increase hiv promoter activity only in stimulate t cell .
three dna clone contain hhv-6 ( g ) genomic fragment transactivated the hiv promoter in cotransfected t cell .
a 21.4-kb dna clone , pzvb70 , show the high transactivating ability , while two other dna fragment , pzvb10 ( 6.2 kb ) and pzvh14 ( 8.7 kb ) , show low activity .
one of these clone , pzvh14 , activate the hiv promoter construct contain a mutation in the nf kappa b site .
however , this mutate nf kappa b promoter be not transactivated during hhv-6 ( g ) infection or after cotransfection with pzvb70 or pzvb10 .
these data indicate that the nf kappa b site of the hiv promoter be essential for it transactivation during hhv-6 ( g ) infection .
by increase hiv promoter activity in primary t lymphocyte , hhv-6 may consequently increase hiv replication , lead to an increase in the cytopathic effect on coinfected human t cell .
pancreatic islet expression study and polymorphic dna marker in the gene encode hepatocyte nuclear factor -3alpha , -3beta , -3gamma , -4gamma , and -6 .
the gene encode the functionally related hepatocyte nuclear factor hnf-1alpha and hnf-4alpha play a critical role in normal pancreatic beta-cell function .
mutation in these liver -enriched transcription factor result in two form of early-onset type 2 diabetes ( maturity-onset diabetes of the young [ mody ] ) , mody3 and mody1 , which be characterize by impaired glucose-stimulated insulin secretion , early disease onset , and autosomal dominant inheritance .
the transcriptional hierarchy of hnfs suggest that other protein of the regulatory cascade might be responsible for other form of mody and/or late-onset type 2 diabetes .
in this study , we show that hnf -3alpha , -3beta , -3gamma , -4gamma , and -6 be express in pancreatic beta-cells .
we report the identification and characterization of simple tandem repeat dna polymorphism in the gene encode hnf-3alpha , -3beta , -3gamma , -4gamma , and -6 and the mapping of hnf-6 to chromosome band 15q21.1-21.2 by fluorescence in situ hybridization .
these marker will be useful to study the role of genetic variation in these gene in the pathogenesis of type 2 diabetes .
il-7 reconstitute multiple aspect of v-abl -mediated signaling .
the mechanism by which early lymphoid cell be selectively transform by v-abl be currently unknown .
previous study have show constitutive activation of il-4 and il-7 signaling pathway , a measure by activation of janus protein kinase ( jak ) 1 , jak3 , stat5 , and stat6 , in pre-b cell transform by v-abl .
to determine whether activation of these cytokine signaling pathway by v-abl be important in the cellular event induce by the abelson murine leukemia virus , the effect of il-4 and il-7 on pre-b cell transform with a temperature-sensitive v-abl mutant be examine .
whereas il-4 have little or no effect , il-7 delay both the apoptosis and cell cycle arrest that occur upon v-abl kinase inactivation .
il-7 also delay the decrease in the level of c-myc , bcl-2 , and bcl-xl that occur upon loss of v-abl kinase activity .
il-7 do not maintain v-abl -mediated differentiation arrest of the pre-b cell , a activation of nf-kappab and rag gene transcription be unaffected by il-7 .
these result identify a potential role for il-7 signaling pathway in transformation by v-abl while demonstrate that a combination of il-4 and il-7 signaling can not substitute for an active v-abl kinase in transform pre-b cell .
spi-1/pu.1 proto-oncogene induce opposite effect on monocytic and erythroid differentiation of k562 cell .
spi-1/pu.1 be a hematopoietic transcription factor of the ets family .
to analyze the effect of ectopic expression of spi-1 on the proliferation/differentiation of human myeloid leukemia cell , k562 cell be stably transfected with a spi-1 expression vector .
the transfected cell line express elevated level of spi-1 mrna and protein and high spi-1 -dna binding activity .
the spi-1 transfected cell show reduce growth rate and reduce clonogenic cell growth .
when the erythroid and monocytic differentiation marker be analyze , spi-1 overexpression result in opposite effect : erythroid differentiation be significantly inhibit in spi-1 transfectants , while spi-1 overexpression increase the monocytic differentiation of cell .
these result indicate a differential role of spi-1 on the differentiation of human myeloid leukemia cell .
copyright 1998 academic press .
charybdotoxin-sensitive , ca(2+) -dependent membrane potential change be not involve in human t or b cell activation and proliferation .
the involvement of ion channel in b and t lymphocyte activation be support by many report of change in ion flux and membrane potential after mitogen binding .
human t and b lymphocyte demonstrate an early and transient hyperpolarization after ligand binding .
inasmuch a the change in membrane potential be dependent on elevation of free cytosolic calcium , the hyperpolarization be presumably through opening of ca(2+)-stimulated k+ channel .
we have use charybdotoxin , a known inhibitor of ca(2+)-dependent k+ channel , to study the role of these channel in lymphocyte activation and mitogenesis .
we demonstrate that charybdotoxin inhibit the ligand-induced transient membrane hyperpolarization in b and t cell in a dose-dependent fashion , without affect change in cytosolic ca2+ .
however , blockade of the ca(2+)-activated k+ channel be not associate with change in cell-cycle gene activation , il-2 production , il-2r expression or b and t cell mitogenesis .
these result imply that membrane potential change secondary to the ligand-dependent opening of ca(2+)-activated k+ channel be not involve in b and t lymphocyte activation and mitogenesis .
plasma sialyltransferase level in psychiatric disorder a a possible indicator of hpa axis function .
a dysfunction in the regulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis , possibly attribute to a change in glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) functionality , have be implicate in depression .
we have measure both lymphocyte gr receptor binding parameter and plasma sialyltransferase activity , a a biochemical marker of gr function , in two group of patient suffer from depression or schizophrenia and in a group of age- and sex-matched control .
while there be a significant increase in plasma cortisol level in the depressed group , there be no change in the lymphocyte gr binding parameter ( k ( m ) and bmax ) .
there be , however , a significant decrease in the plasma sialyltransferase : cortisol ratio in the depressed group suggest an inability of the raise cortisol level to induce enzyme expression and this ratio may provide a useful biochemical marker of cortisol receptor function .
although there be an increase in the plasma activity of the alpha 2,6 sialyltransferase isozyme in the schizophrenic group , no other change be determine .
therefore , while the total plasma sialyltransferase : cortisol ratio reflect hpa axis function , alteration in specific isozyme activity may also be associate with other cns disease state .
cd40 be a functional activation antigen and b7-independent t cell costimulatory molecule on normal human lung fibroblast .
cd40 be an important signaling and activation ag find on certain bone marrow-derived cell .
recently , cd40 also have be show to be express by mesenchymal cell , include human fibroblast .
little be know about the role of cd40 in fibroblast .
the current study investigate the hypothesis that cd40 express on lung fibroblast be an activation structure and mechanism for interaction with hemopoietic cell .
communication between resident tissue fibroblast and t cell be necessary for normal wound healing , and can be pathologic , result in tissue fibrosis .
signaling through cd40 with soluble cd40 ligand stimulate fibroblast activation , a evidence by mobilization of nuclear factor-kappab and by induction of the proinflammatory and chemoattractant cytokine il-6 and il-8 .
ifn-gamma-primed lung fibroblast costimulate t lymphocyte proliferation utilize cd40 , but not the well-studied costimulatory molecule b7-1 and b7-2 .
data report herein support the hypothesis that cognate interaction between tissue fibroblast and infiltrate t lymphocyte , via the cd40 /cd40l pathway , augment inflammation and may promote fibrogenesis by activate both cell type .
flutamide in the treatment of hirsutism : long-term clinical effect , endocrine change , and androgen receptor behavior .
objective : to investigate the long-term effect of treatment with low dos of flutamide on clinical and hormonal parameter , as well a on the androgen receptor status , in hirsute woman .
design : eighteen hirsute patient with regular menses be study basally and during treatment with 125 mg flutamide , three time per day for 12 month .
barrier or intrauterine contraception be use during the study in sexually active woman .
safety parameter be assess throughout the study .
hirsutism , grade by the modify ferriman-gallwey score , and hormonal parameter be evaluate basally and at 4-month interval during treatment .
gonadotropin-releasing hormone and acth stimulation test be perform before and after 3 to 4 month of therapy .
in addition , the concentration of androgen receptor in mononuclear leukocyte be measure , in both the follicular and luteal phase of the menstrual cycle , basally and after 4 month of flutamide treatment .
result : flutamide be well tolerate in all woman , with the noticeable exception of one patient who present increase serum transaminase after 8 month of therapy .
hirsutism markedly improve in all woman during the treatment ( ferriman-gallwey score after 1 year : 4.1 +/- 0.5 versus 14.1 +/- 0.9 ) .
a reduction of serum androgen be find , whereas no change be observe in either basal or gnrh-stimulated gonadotropin or in the cortisol and 17 alpha-hydroxyprogesterone response to acth .
cycle remain ovulatory .
before treatment , the number of androgen receptor be high in the luteal than in the follicular phase .
this rhythmic differentiation disappear after the patient have be give the antiandrogen drug .
conclusion : flutamide be effective in the treatment of hirsutism but require constant surveillance of liver function .
androgen receptor blockade might be potentiate by a reduction of serum androgen .
flutamide affect androgen receptor behavior during the menstrual cycle .
the meaning of this finding remain to be elucidate .
induction of tyrosine phosphorylation and t-cell activation by vanadate peroxide , an inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatase .
rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of key cellular protein be a crucial event in the transduction of activation signal to t-lymphocytes .
the regulatory role of protein tyrosine phosphatase ( ptpases ) in this process be explore by study the effect of a powerful ptpase inhibitor , vanadate peroxide ( pervanadate ) , on the activation cascade of jurkat human leukaemic t-cells .
pervanadate induce activation of the tyrosine kinase lck and fyn ( 4- and 3-fold respectively ) and a dramatic increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular protein , notably phospholipase c gamma 1 .
after this event , we observe a rise in intracellular ca2+ concentration , correspond to an influx .
this effect require surface expression of the cd45 ptpase and be not observe in cd45-deficient variant of jurkat cell .
in the cd45-negative variant , the effect of pervanadate on tyrosine phosphorylation be globally decrease and some phosphorylated substrate be specifically missing .
pervanadate also stimulate transcription of the c-fos gene and accumulation of it mrna as well a several other hallmark of t-lymphocyte activation such a surface expression of the cd69 antigen and the interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain ( cd25 ) .
pervanadate synergized with signal deliver by t-cell antigen receptor engagement or by a phorbol ester to induce interleukin 2 production .
pervanadate activate nf-kappa b , a show by an increase in dna-binding activity of this transcription factor .
we thus conclude that ptpases play a crucial role in the negative regulation of signal transduction culminate in t-lymphocyte activation .
moreover , induction of tyrosine phosphorylation appear sufficient per se to initiate a complete activation programme .
two distinct pathway of interleukin-5 synthesis in allergen-specific human t-cell clone be suppress by glucocorticoid .
glucocorticoid ( gc ) have long be use a the most effective agent for the treatment of allergic disease accompany by eosinophilia such a chronic asthma and atopic dermatitis .
the development of chronic eosinophilic inflammation be dependent on interleukin-5 ( il-5 ) , a selective eosinophil-activating factor , produce by helper t cell .
to delineate the regulatory mechanism of human il-5 synthesis , we establish allergen-specific cd4+ t-cell clone from asthmatic patient .
gc efficiently suppress il-5 synthesis of t-cell clone activate via either t-cell receptor ( tcr ) or il-2 receptor ( il-2r ) .
induction of il-5 mrna upon tcr and il-2r stimulation be totally inhibit by dexamethasone .
human il-5 promoter/enhancer-luciferase gene construct transfected to t-cell clone be transcribe on either tcr or il-2r stimulation and be clearly downregulated by dexamethasone , indicate that the approximately 500-bp human il-5 gene segment located 5' upstream of the cod region contain activation-inducible enhancer element responsible for the regulation by gc .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis suggest that ap-1 and nf-kappab be among the possible target of gc action on tcr -stimulated t cell .
nf-at and nf-kappab be not significantly induce by il-2 stimulation .
our result show that gc suppress il-5 production by human cd4+ t cell activate by two distinct stimulus , tcr and il-2r stimulation , underscore the efficacy of gc in the treatment of allergic disease via suppression of t-cell il-5 synthesis .
involvement of tyrosine phosphorylation in endothelial adhesion molecule induction .
induction of endothelial adhesion molecule by the cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) can occur independently of protein kinase c and activation of a protein tyrosine kinase ( ptk ) have recently be implicate in the upregulation of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 ( vcam-1 ) by interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) on endothelial cell .
we demonstrate that the ptk inhibitor herbimycin a or genistein suppress induction of endothelial vcam-1 and e-selectin , as well a subsequent monocytic cell adhesion to endothelial cell stimulate by tnf .
inhibition study indicate that specific tyrosine phosphorylation follow ptk activation be involve in the mobilization of the transcription factor , nuclear factor kappa b , and vcam-1 mrna expression .
this may have implication for pathophysiological condition that involve the upregulation of these molecule ( e.g. inflammation and atherosclerosis ) .
binding and cooperative interaction between two b cell-specific transcriptional coactivators .
the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) and b cell octamer-binding protein 1/octamer-binding factor 1/oct coactivator from b cell ( bob1/obf-1/oca-b ) represent two b cell-specific transcriptional coactivators .
ciita and bob1 interact with protein that bind to conserve upstream sequence in promoter of class ii major histocompatibility gene and octamer-binding transcription factor oct-1 and oct-2 , respectively .
both ciita and bob1 increase the expression from the dra promoter , which be a prototypic class ii promoter .
moreover , in the presence of ciita , interaction between class ii promoter and bob1 be independent of the octamer-binding site .
use in vivo and in vitro binding assay , we confirm that bob1 bind to ciita .
thus , ciita not only activate the expression of class ii gene but recruit another b cell-specific coactivator to increase transcriptional activity of class ii promoter in b cell .
epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein-1 trigger ap-1 activity via the c-jun n-terminal kinase cascade .
the epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein-1 ( lmp-1 ) be an integral membrane protein which transform fibroblast and be essential for ebv-mediated b-cell immortalization .
lmp-1 have be show to trigger cellular nf-kappa b activity which , however , can not fully explain the oncogenic potential of lmp-1 .
here we show that lmp-1 induce the activity of the ap-1 transcription factor , a dimer of jun/jun or jun/fos protein .
lmp-1 effect on ap-1 be mediate through activation of the c-jun n-terminal kinase ( jnk ) cascade , but not the extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) pathway .
consequently , lmp-1 trigger the activity of the c-jun n-terminal transactivation domain which be know to be activate upon jnk -mediated phosphorylation .
deletion analysis indicate that the 55 c-terminal amino acid of the lmp-1 molecule , but not it traf interaction domain , be essential for ap-1 activation .
jnk -mediated transcriptional activation of ap-1 be the direct output of lmp -1-triggered signaling , a show by an inducible lmp-1 mutant .
use a tetracycline-regulated lmp-1 allele , we demonstrate that jnk be also an effector of non-cytotoxic lmp-1 signaling in b cell , the physiological target cell of ebv .
in summary , our data reveal a novel effector of lmp-1 , the sek/ jnk / c-jun / ap-1 pathway , which contribute to our understanding of the immortalizing and transforming potential of lmp-1 .
transcription factor ap-2 activate gene expression of htlv-i .
the htlv-i ltr contain three conserve regulatory element know a 21 base pair repeat which be require for stimulation of gene expression by the transactivator protein tax .
mutagenesis indicate that the 21 bp repeat can be subdivide into three motif , a , b and c , each of which influence the level of tax activation .
the a site in the 21 bp repeat have strong homology with previously describe bind site for the transcription factor ap-2 .
we demonstrate that ap-2 mrna be present in t-lymphocytes and that cellular factor from both non-transformed and transform t-lymphocytes specifically bind to the consensus motif for ap-2 in each 21 bp .
to determine the role of ap-2 in the regulation of the htlv-i ltr gene expression , we use an ap-2 cdna in dna binding and transient expression assay .
gel retardation and methylation interference study reveal that bacterially produce ap-2 bind specifically and with high affinity to all three 21 bp repeat , and that it require the core sequence aggc for specific binding .
binding of ap-2 prevent the subsequent binding of member of the creb/atf family to an adjacent regulatory motif in the 21 bp repeat .
transfection of an ap-2 expression construct into t-lymphocytes activate gene expression from the htlv-i ltr .
at least two 21 bp repeat be require for high level of ap-2 activation and mutagenesis of the ap-2 consensus binding sequence in the 21 bp repeat eliminate this activation .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
inactivation of ikappabbeta by the tax protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 : a potential mechanism for constitutive induction of nf-kappab .
in rest t lymphocyte , the transcription factor nf-kappab be sequester in the cytoplasm via interaction with member of the i kappa b family of inhibitor , include ikappabalpha and ikappabbeta .
during normal t-cell activation , ikappabalpha be rapidly phosphorylated , ubiquitinated , and degrade by the 26 proteasome , thus permit the release of functional nf-kappab .
in contrast to it transient pattern of nuclear induction during an immune response , nf-kappab be constitutively activate in cell express the tax transforming protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-1 ) .
recent study indicate that htlv-1 tax target ikappabalpha to the ubiquitin- proteasome pathway .
however , it remain unclear how this viral protein induce a persistent rather than transient nf-kappab response .
in this report , we provide evidence that in addition to act on ikappabalpha , tax stimulate the turnover of ikappabbeta via a related targeting mechanism .
like ikappabalpha , tax -mediated breakdown of ikappabbeta in transfected t lymphocyte be block either by cell-permeable proteasome inhibitor or by mutation of ikappabbeta at two serine residue present within it n-terminal region .
despite the dual specificity of htlv-1 tax for ikappabalpha and ikappabbeta at the protein level , tax selectively stimulate nf-kappab -directed transcription of the ikappabalpha gene .
consequently , ikappabbeta protein expression be chronically downregulated in htlv-1 -infected t lymphocyte .
these finding with ikappabbeta provide a potential mechanism for the constitutive activation of nf-kappab in tax -expressing cell .
interleukin-6 production in hemorrhagic shock be accompany by neutrophil recruitment and lung injury .
hemorrhagic shock ( h ) initiate an inflammatory cascade that include the production of cytokine and recruitment of neutrophil ( pmn ) and may progress to organ failure , induce acute respiratory distress syndrome ( ards ) .
to examine the hypothesis that interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) contribute to pmn infiltration and lung damage in h , we examine the lung of rat subject to unresuscitated and resuscitate h for the production of il-6 and activation of stat3 .
use semiquantitative rt- pcr , we find a striking increase in il-6 mrna level only in resuscitated h , with peak level observe 1 h after initiation of resuscitation .
increase il-6 protein expression be localized to bronchial and alveolar cell .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay of protein extract from shock lung exhibit an increase in stat3 activation with kinetics similar to il-6 mrna .
in situ dna binding assay determine stat3 activation predominantly within alveolus .
intratracheal instillation of il-6 alone into normal rat result in pmn infiltration into lung interstitium and alveolus , marked elevation of bronchoalveolar lavage cellularity , and increase wet-to-dry ratio .
these finding indicate that il-6 production and stat3 activation occur early in h and may contribute to pmn-mediated lung injury , include ards after h .
induction of il-8 expression in t cell use the cd28 costimulatory pathway .
il-8 , a potent chemotactic factor for neutrophil granulocyte and lymphocyte , be a proinflammatory cytokine secrete by a variety of cell type , include t cell .
stimulation of the cd28 cell surface molecule deliver costimulatory signal essential for lymphokine production in activate t cell via a conserve sequence element find in the promoter of several lymphokine gene .
anti- cd28 -stimulated t cell produce significant amount of il-8 ; additionally , costimulation with anti-cd3 and anti- cd28 ab result in a synergistic induction of il-8 secretion .
sequence homology , single nucleotide mutation , and anti- cd28 ab stimulation study establish that the nf-kappa b -like sequence in the promoter of the il-8 gene function a a cd28 response element .
furthermore , cyclosporin a , but not rapamycin , block the synergistic induction of il-8 expression achieve with anti-cd3 and anti- cd28 costimulation .
the involvement of a cd28 response element in the induction of il-8 expression in activate t cell may provide new insight into the pathogenesis and persistence of immune disorder characterize by increase level of il-8 , such a psoriasis and rheumatoid arthritis .
the role of p16 in the e2f-dependent thymidine kinase regulation .
the role of alteration of the mts1 tumor suppressor gene on chromosome 9p21 , which encode p16 , the inhibitor of cyclin-dependent-kinase- 4 and 6 , in tumorigenesis be not yet clear .
phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma protein by cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 prevent it interaction with the transcription factor e2f , which subsequently promote the expression of s phase regulated gene , such a thymidine kinase .
although a role of p16 in this regulation have be presume , there be no proof so far that loss of this tumor suppressor gene really affect e2f -mediated regulation .
we investigate the regulation of thymidine kinase in phytohemagglutinin -stimulated normal human lymphocyte and in the p16 -negative human acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line , molt-4 and cem .
compare to normal lymphocyte , molt-4 and cem cell exhibit an altered cell cycle regulation of thymidine kinase , a much high intracellular activity of this enzyme , and high thymidine kinase mrna expression .
transient expression of p16 in normal human lymphocyte cause arrest in g1 , but be without effect on the cell growth of molt-4 and cem cell , although all of them express functional retinoblastoma protein .
nevertheless , in the two leukemia cell line transient overexpression of p16 reestablish the normal regulation of thymidine kinase , parallel by an increase of the underphosphorylated form of retinoblastoma protein and decrease of free e2f bind to it motif in the thymidine kinase promoter .
we demonstrate that loss of p16 cause upregulation of this dna precursor pathway enzyme via activation of e2f by a mechanism involve retinoblastoma protein .
physical interaction between ets and nf-kappab/nfat protein play an important role in their cooperative activation of the human immunodeficiency virus enhancer in t cell .
the transcriptional regulatory element of many inducible t-cell gene contain adjacent or overlap bind site for the ets and nf-kappab/nfat family of transcription factor .
similar array of functionally important nf-kappab/nfat and ets binding site be present in the transcriptional enhancer of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and 2 ( hiv-1 and hiv-2 ) , suggest that this pattern of nuclear protein binding site reflect an evolutionarily conserve mechanism for regulate inducible t-cell gene expression that have be co-opted during hiv evolution .
despite these finding , the molecular mechanism by which ets and nf-kappab/nfat protein cooperatively regulate inducible t-cell gene expression remain unknown .
in the study describe in this report , we demonstrate a physical interaction between multiple ets and nf-kappab/nfat protein both in vitro and in activate normal human t cell .
this interaction be mediate by the ets domain of ets protein and the c-terminal region of the rel homology domain of nf-kappab/nfat protein .
in addition , the ets - nf-kappab / nfat interaction require the presence of dna binding site for both protein , a it be abolish by the dna intercalating agent propidium iodide and ethidium bromide and enhance by the presence of synthetic oligonucleotides contain bind site for ets and nf-kappab protein .
a dominant-negative mutant of nf-kappab p50 that bind dna but fail to interact with ets protein inhibit the synergistic activation of the hiv-1 and hiv-2 enhancer by nf-kappab ( p50 + p65 ) and ets-1 , suggest that physical interaction between ets and nf-kappab protein be require for the transcriptional activity of the hiv-1 and hiv-2 enhancer .
take together , these finding suggest that evolutionarily conserve physical interaction between ets and nf-kappab/nfat protein be important in regulate the inducible expression of t-cell gene and virus .
these interaction represent a potential target for the development of novel immunosuppressive and antiviral therapy .
role of cyclic amp response element-binding protein in cyclic amp inhibition of nf-kappab -mediated transcription .
the nf-kappab family of transcription factor regulate the inducible expression of a variety of gene .
recently , we show that elevation of intracellular cyclic amp inhibit nf-kappab -mediated transcription in human monocyte and endothelial cell without prevent nuclear translocation of nf-kappab complex .
the present study examine the molecular mechanism of this inhibition .
we hypothesize that activation of the protein kinase a signaling pathway may inhibit nf-kappab -mediated transcription by phosphorylating protein , such a camp response element-binding protein ( creb ) , which compete for limit amount of the coactivator cbp .
here , we show that the amino-terminal region ( amino acid 1-450 ) of cbp specifically interact with the carboxyl-terminal region ( amino acid 286-551 ) of nf-kappab p65 ( rela ) both in vitro and in vivo .
functional study use human endothelial cell demonstrate that overexpression of cbp rescue camp inhibition of nf-kappab -mediated transcription and transcription mediate by a chimeric protein , gal4-p65 ( 286-551 ) , which contain the gal4 dna binding domain fuse to the carboxyl-terminal region of p65 ( amino acid 286-551 ) .
in contrast , overexpression of creb inhibit gal4 -p65(286-551)-mediated transcription .
these result suggest that activation of the protein kinase a pathway inhibit nf-kappab transcription by phosphorylating creb , which compete with p65 for limit amount of cbp .
the position of the zebra activation domain do not influence it biological activity .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) be a human herpesvirus which latently infect b lymphocyte .
ebv encode a unique transcriptional activator , know a zebra , which can disrupt viral latency in b cell and induce lytic viral replication .
furthermore , zebra have be show to bind at the ebv origin of lytic replication , and be necessary for viral dna replication to occur .
previously we demonstrate that heterologous activation domain can fully substitute for the zebra activation domain .
here we extend those result by show that the position of the zebra activation domain or a heterologous replacement domain do not influence it ability to function in the disruption of ebv latency .
in this study three novel clone be construct in which the zebra activation region be reposition to the carboxy terminus of the protein .
these mutant be use to demonstrate that the ability of zebra 's wild type domain to function in the complex biological process of virus activation be not compromise by alter it position within the protein .
tumor necrosis factor-alpha mrna accumulation in human myelomonocytic cell line .
role of transcriptional regulation by dna sequence motif and mrna stabilization .
the cytokine tnf mediate many of the pathologic sign of cachexia , inflammation , and sepsis .
the current work describe the regulation of tnf in human myelomonocytic cell line after pma stimulation .
the cell line exhibit a low level of constitutive tnf mrna expression .
within 2 to 4 h of pma exposure , steady state level of tnf mrna be markedly elevated in all myelomonocytic cell line study .
this rise be due to increase mrna stability , which increase by almost twofold , and to an overall increase in transcription , which rise by more than sixfold .
at the level of the genomic tnf gene , a dnase i hypersensitive site be detect within the tnf promoter between -200 to -100 bp relative to the transcription initiation site .
although absent in nonexpressing erythroleukemia cell line , the dnase i site be present in uninduced myelomonocytic cell line and be not change after pma induction .
the pma induction of c-fos mrna correlate well with tnf gene induction ; expression of gene encode other protein in the ap-1 complex ( junb and jund ) be also induce by pma .
the nuclear extract from rest and induce ml-1 cell contain protein bind specifically to the ap-1 , ap-2 , and nf kappa b sequence located within the tnf promoter .
pma induction increase the level of a number of specific bind complex relative to the rest cell .
the regulatory mechanism of the human and murine tnf gene be discuss .
enhancing effect of 17 beta-estradiol on human nk cell activity .
the in vitro effect of 17 beta-estradiol on nk activity be study .
the proliferation and nk activity of yt-n17 ( a human nk-like cell line ) be enhance by 17 beta-estradiol ( e2 ) , and the enhancement be block by tamoxifen ( tx ) , an antagonist of e2 .
on the contrary , other steroid hormone such a tx , progesterone , and testosterone have no effect .
yt-n17 contain 11.8 fmol/mg protein of estrogen receptor ( mean of two independent assay ) , a value which be 5-10-fold high than that of other hematopoietic cell line .
an enhancement of nk activity by e2 be also see in large granular lymphocyte obtain from normal subject , and it be again suppress by tx .
these data suggest that e2 be one of the activate factor for nk/lgl cell .
il-13 induce phosphorylation and activation of jak2 janus kinase in human colon carcinoma cell line : similarity between il-4 and il-13 signaling .
we have recently report that il-13r may share a component with il-4r . here we report that both il-4 and il-13 share signaling event in human colon carcinoma cell line ( ht-29 and widr ) .
il-13 cause rapid phosphorylation of the three out of four member of the known janus family of kinase ( jak ) .
we show that jak2 kinase be rapidly phosphorylated and activate in response to il-13 .
within 1 min of activation , jak2 be phosphorylated , and peak in 10 min .
in addition , il-13 phosphorylated insulin response substrate-1 , il-4r p140 , jak1 , and tyk2 , but not jak3 kinase .
il-4 also stimulate all three kinase and substrate , but unlike in immune cell , il-4 do not involve jak3 activation for it signaling in colon cancer cell line .
furthermore , jak2 associate with the il-4r p140 before and after stimulation with il-13 .
both il-13 and il-4 induce phosphorylation of il-4 stat ( stat6 ) but not stat1 , stat3 , or stat5 .
125i- il-13 do not bind to colon cancer cell line , but unlabeled il-13 compete for the binding of 125i-il-4 .
our data suggest that il-13 utilize il-4r and it signaling pathway , and jak2 may play an important role in the function of il-4r and il-13r in colon cancer cell .
an isotype-specific activator of major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii gene that be independent of class ii transactivator .
patient with one type of major histocompatibility complex class ii combined immunodeficiency have mutation in a gene term class ii transactivator ( ciita ) , which coordinately control the transcription of the three major human class ii gene , hla -dr , -dq , and -dp .
however , the experimentally derive b-lymphoblastoid cell line , clone 13 , express high level of hladq in the absence of hla-dr and hla-dp , despite it mapping by complementation analysis to this group .
it be possible that one of the clone 13 ciita allele bore a mutation that allow hla-dq , but not hla -dr or -dp transcription .
alternatively , another factor , distinct from ciita , might control hla-dq expression .
we report here that ectopic expression of ciita cdna derive by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction from clone 13 do not restore expression of hla-dq in another ciita -deficient cell line , rj2.2.5 .
in addition , no ciita protein be detectable in clone 13 nuclear extract .
in contrast , somatic cell fusion between clone 13 and rj2.2.5 restore expression of the hla-dq haplotype encode by the rj2.2.5 dqb gene .
take together , these data demonstrate the existence of an hla-dq isotype-specific trans-acting factor , which function independently of ciita .
rapid shuttling of nf-at in discrimination of ca2+ signal and immunosuppression .
cell need to distinguish between transient ca2+ signal that induce event such a muscle contraction , secretion , adhesion and synaptic transmission , and sustained ca2+ signal that be involve in cell proliferation and differentiation .
the latter class of event be block in lymphocyte by the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin a and fk506 , which inhibit calcineurin , a ca2+ -activated serine/threonine phosphatase necessary for the nuclear import of nf-at transcription factor .
here we report that sustained high concentration of ca2+ , but not transient pulse , be require to maintain nf-at transcription factor in the nucleus , where they participate in ca2+ -dependent induction of gene require for lymphocyte activation and proliferation .
furthermore , overexpression and constitutive nuclear localization of nf-at , but not jun , fo , nf-kappab , oct or ets family member , render the interleukin-2 enhancer in jurkat t lymphocyte resistant to fk506 and cyclosporin a .
thus a primary effect of these immunosuppressive reagent be to control the subcellular localization of the nf-at family of transcription factor .
[ estrogen receptor content of peripheral blood lymphocyte in patient with systemic lupus erythematosus ]
er content in lymphocyte of peripheral blood from 27 sle patient and 20 healthy control be determine by dextran-coated charcoal assay .
er content in lymphocyte of each sample be express by both fmol/mg of lymphocyte cytosolic protein and fmol/micrograms of lymphocyte dna .
the result show that there be no significant difference between the er content of lymphocyte from the control and that from patient with sle .
but the logarithmic mean of er content in lymphocyte , express by fmol/mg of cytosolic protein , in 14 patient with active sle ( 0.9356 +/- 0.31 ) be significantly high than that in 13 patient with inactive sle ( 0.2979 +/- 0.23 , p less than 0.001 ) and in the control ( 0.6204 +/- 0.52 , p less than 0.001 ) .
the normal upper limit of er content in lymphocyte , express by fmol/micrograms of dna , be 0.136 .
the elevated rate of er content in lymphocyte in 14 active sle ( 92.9 % ) be also high than that in quieiescent patient ( 23.1 % , p less than 0.001 ) and in the control ( 10 % , p less than 0.001 ) .
moreover , the elevated level of er content be find to be related to the positive antidsdna antibody and hypocomplementemia .
the nuclear receptor ppargamma - big than fat .
work report over the past year have provide insight into the mechanism whereby ligand activation of the nuclear receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( ppargamma ) regulate systemic glucose and lipid homeostasis .
ppargamma have also be implicate recently in the biology of monocyte and in cell-cycle regulation and cancer .
polyunsaturated fatty acid and eicosanoids bind and activate ppargamma , suggest that these lipid may serve a hormonal regulator of a variety of biological process .
study on the biological activity of triiodothyronine sulfate .
hepatic microsome and isolate hepatocytes in short term culture desulfate t3 sulfate ( t3so4 ) .
we , therefore , wish to determine whether t3so4 could mimic the action of thyroid hormone in vitro .
t3so4 have no thyromimetic effect on the activity of ca(2+)-atpase in human erythrocyte membrane at dos up to 10,000 time the maximally effective dose of t3 ( 10 ( -10 ) mol/l ) .
in gh4c1 pituitary cell , t3so4 fail to displace [125i]t3 from nuclear receptor in intact cell or soluble preparation .
thus , t3so4 be not directly thyromimetic in either an isolate human membrane system or a pituitary cell system in which nuclear receptor occupancy correlate with gh synthesis .
thyroid hormone inhibit [3h]glycosaminoglycan synthesis by culture human dermal fibroblast , and t3so4 display about 0.5 % the activity of t3 at 72 h .
human fibroblast contain roughly the same level of microsomal p-nitrophenyl sulfatase activity a that previously observe in hepatic microsome .
propylthiouracil ( 50 mumol/l ) do not affect the action of t3so4 , suggest that deiodination be not important for this activity of t3so4 .
thus , it appear t3so4 have no intrinsic biological activity , but , under certain circumstance , may be reactivate by desulfation .
steroid-resistant asthma .
cellular mechanism contribute to inadequate response to glucocorticoid therapy .
the current study examine whether alteration in glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) binding contribute to poor response to glucocorticoid therapy in asthma .
29 asthma patient with force expiratory volume in 1 s ( fev1 ) < 70 % predict be study .
patient be classify a steroid sensitive ( ss ) if their morning fev1 increase > 30 % after a 1-wk course of oral prednisone 20 mg twice daily and steroid resistant ( sr ) if they fail to increase > 15 % .
pbmc obtain from these two group , 17 sr and 12 ss , as well a 12 normal control be analyze . sr patient have two distinguishable gr binding abnormality : 15 of the 17 sr patient demonstrate a significantly reduce gr binding affinity , a compare with ss patient ( p = 0.0001 ) and normal control ( p = 0.0001 ) .
this defect be localized to t cell and revert to normal after 48 h in culture medium .
however , incubation with a combination of il-2 and il-4 sustain this abnormality .
the other two sr patient have an abnormally low gr number with normal binding affinity that be not limit to t cell .
furthermore , gr number fail to normalize after incubation in medium alone or il-2 and il-4 .
therefore , sr asthma may be due to more than one abnormality , the majority related to a reversible cytokine -induced reduction in gr binding affinity and the second related to an irreversible reduction in gr number .
these finding may have important implication for the design of alternative treatment approach for recalcitrant asthma .
mitogen activation of human peripheral t lymphocyte induce the formation of new cyclic amp response element-binding protein nuclear complex .
a large body of evidence indicate that experimental agent which raise cellular camp level inhibit t cell growth and division .
by contrast , many study have report that mitogen activation of t cell increase camp level , imply a positive physiological role for camp in the activation process .
in the present study we demonstrate that mitogen activation of human peripheral t lymphocyte induce nuclear factor that form complex with cyclic amp response element-binding protein ( creb ) .
four complex be identify by the electrophoretic mobility shift assay , two of which be induce by mitogen activation .
all four complex contain creb and be bind to the camp response element ( cre ) core sequence ( tgacgtca ) , a indicate by antibody and oligonucleotide competition experiment .
binding of the four complex to cre be prevent by dephosphorylation of nuclear extract and be restore by rephosphorylation with camp -dependent protein kinase or endogenous kinase .
similar complex be detect in nuclear extract of jurkat cell .
mitogen induction of the electrophoretic mobility shift assay complex be not account for by protein phosphorylation or by induction of creb .
rather , the data indicate that mitogen increase the level of a nuclear factor ( s ) that dimerizes with creb .
induction of new creb complex imply a physiological role for camp in mitogen activation of t lymphocyte .
regulation and specificity of mnda expression in monocyte , macrophage , and leukemia/b lymphoma cell line .
the expression of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen ( mnda ) be observe specifically in cell of the granulocyte-macrophage lineage in our early report .
the specificity of mnda expression for cell in the granulocyte-macrophage lineage be reexamine in cell line establish from patient with philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia .
cell line that express mnda exhibit myeloid cell feature and granulocyte or monocyte differentiation could be induce in vitro , while cell line exhibit property of very early stage cell or multipotential cell do not express mnda .
cell originate from case of burkitt 's lymphoma be negative .
by contrast , three lymphoblastoid cell line ( immortalize in vitro with epstein-barr virus ) be weakly positive and mnda be up-regulated by interferon-alpha ( ifn-alpha ) treatment .
a we report previously , mnda mrna level in adherent monocyte be elevate by ifn-alpha ; in this study , we far assess mnda expression in in vitro monocyte-derived macrophage .
three additional agent ( endotoxin , phytohemagglutinin , and phorbol ester ) and other condition that affect function , cytokine production , differentiation , and/or growth of monocyte be examine for their ability to alter mnda expression .
the result vary with the agent , cell type , and stage of differentiation .
change in mnda expression occur slowly ( hour to day ) , suggest that mnda could mediate change realize over a long period .
the result also reveal a discordance in certain mnda positive cell between steady-state level or change in level of protein and mrna indicate that the regulation of mnda expression occur at more than one point .
change in mnda expression be consistent with a role in oppose macrophage differentiation and activation of monocyte /macrophages .
the role of shared receptor motif and common stat protein in the generation of cytokine pleiotropy and redundancy by il-2 , il-4 , il-7 , il-13 , and il-15 .
to understand the molecular base for cytokine redundancy and pleiotropy , we have compare the stat protein activate in peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbls ) by cytokine with shared and distinct action .
interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) rapidly activate stat5 in fresh pbl , and stat3 and stat5 in preactivated pbl .
il-7 and il-15 induce the same complex a il-2 , a feature explain by the existence of similar tyrosine -phosphorylated motif in the cytoplasmic domain of il-2r beta and il-7r that can serve a docking site for stat protein .
il-13 induce the same complex a il-4 , a finding explain by our study implicate il-4r a a shared component of the receptor .
these study demonstrate that a single cytokine can activate different combination of stat protein under different physiological condition , and also indicate two mechanism by which distinct cytokine can activate the same stat protein .
nonopsonic phagocytosis of pseudomonas aeruginosa by macrophage and polymorphonuclear leukocyte require the presence of the bacterial flagellum .
whereas the mechanism of nonopsonic phagocytosis of pseudomonas aeruginosa have be describe , the bacterial ligand require be poorly understand .
to identify the requisite bacterial ligand , study with isogenic mutant of p. aeruginosa pak lack pili , flagellum , and the rpon sigma factor be undertake .
the rpon mutant , lack pili , flagellum , and nonpilus adhesins , bind poorly and be resistant to ingestion by both macrophage and neutrophil .
pili be not absolutely require for binding or phagocytosis of p. aeruginosa .
the presence of a flagellum be not require for binding of p. aeruginosa to macrophage but be critical for the subsequent internalization of the bacterium , suggest that this factor or a surface ligand associate with it assembly be responsible for stimulation of nonopsonic phagocytosis .
cloning of are-containing gene by au-motif-directed display .
a procedure suitable for clone labile mrna that contain au motif be present ( au-dd ) .
these motif be regulatory sequence within the so-called au-rich element ( are ) often find in 3' untranslated region of gene such a cytokine , proto-oncogene , and transcription factor .
au-dd be an au-motif-directed differential display that permit the identification of are-containing gene differentially express after cell activation .
it have be apply to peripheral blood monocyte and a t cell clone to isolate 59 cdna fragment associate to activation .
fourteen percent of isolate fragment belong to already known gene that certainly be cytokine and transduction/ transcription factor .
the remain 86 % correspond to unknown gene of which 92 % have be confirm to be differentially express .
these data demonstrate the efficiency of the system and support the notion that numerous gene fall into those category remain unidentified and that they can be clone by this method .
copyright 1998 academic press .
stat3 be a serine kinase target in t lymphocyte .
interleukin 2 and t cell antigen receptor signal converge upon serine 727 .
interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) induce tyrosine phosphorylation of stats 3 and 5 ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) .
we now show that il-2 regulation of stat3 protein in t cell be a complex response involve activation of two form of stat3 : 90-kda stat3alpha and an 83-kda carboxyl-terminal truncate stat3beta .
the phosphorylation of stat protein on serine residue be also require for competent stat transcription .
a critical serine phosphorylation site in stat3alpha be at position 727 .
in this study we have produce an antiserum specific for stat3alpha protein phosphorylated on serine 727 and use this to monitor the phosphorylation of this residue during t lymphocyte activation .
our result show that phosphorylation of stat3alpha on serine 727 be not constitutive in quiescent t cell but can be induce by the cytokine il-2 .
interestingly , triggering of the t cell antigen receptor complex or activation of protein kinase c with phorbol ester also induce phosphorylation of serine 727 but without simultaneously induce stat3 tyrosine phosphorylation or dna binding .
hence , the present result show that stat3 serine phosphorylation can be regulate independently of the tyrosine phosphorylation of this molecule .
il-2 and t cell antigen receptor complex induction of stat3alpha serine 727 phosphorylation be dependent on the activity of the mek /erk pathway .
previous study have identify h-7-sensitive kinase pathway that regulate stat3 dna binding .
we show that h-7-sensitive pathway regulate stat3 dna binding in t cell .
nevertheless , we show that h-7-sensitive kinase do not regulate stat3 tyrosine phosphorylation or phosphorylation of serine 727 .
these result thus show that stat3 protein be target for multiple kinase pathway in t cell and can integrate signal from both cytokine receptor and antigen receptor .
effect of glucocorticoid on lymphocyte activation in patient with steroid-sensitive and steroid-resistant asthma .
background : glucocorticoid be important medication use to control the airway inflammation associate with asthma .
synthetic glucocorticoid vary in their binding affinity for the glucocorticoid receptor ( gcr ) .
method : we compare hydrocortisone , beclomethasone dipropionate , triamcinolone acetonide , flunisolide , and budesonide with regard to their capacity to inhibit phytohemagglutinin -induced peripheral blood mononuclear cell proliferation from six patient with steroid-sensitive asthma and seven patient with steroid-resistant asthma .
peripheral blood mononuclear cell gcr binding affinity for dexamethasone and budesonide be also determine for both patient group by use a radioligand binding assay and scatchard analysis .
result : dose-dependent inhibition be demonstrate for all glucocorticoid in both patient group , with the steroid-resistant group require approximately 2 log-fold more glucocorticoid for an equivalent degree of inhibition .
the mean concentration necessary to cause 50 % inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation ( ic50s ) for the steroid-sensitive group range from 2 x 10(-10) mol/l for budesonide to 7 x 10(-8) mol/l for hydrocortisone , whereas the mean ic50s for the steroid-resistant group range from approximately 2 x 10(-8) mol/l for budesonide to great than 10(-6) mol/l for hydrocortisone .
in addition , a significant correlation be note between the degree of inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation ( ic50 ) and the binding affinity of dexamethasone to the gcr .
patient with steroid-resistant asthma have be show to have a reduce gcr binding affinity .
the gcr binding affinity for budesonide be significantly high in both group ( i.e. , low dissociation constant ) than that obtain for dexamethasone .
conclusion : these data suggest that glucocorticoid such a budesonide , by virtue of their high gcr binding affinity and great ability to suppress lymphocyte proliferation , may therefore be beneficial in the management of difficult-to-control asthma .
interleukin ( il ) -10 inhibit nuclear factor kappa b ( nf kappa b ) activation in human monocyte .
il-10 and il-4 suppress cytokine synthesis by different mechanism .
our previous study in human monocyte have demonstrate that interleukin ( il ) -10 inhibit lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -stimulated production of inflammatory cytokine , il-1 beta , il-6 , il-8 , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -alpha by block gene transcription .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) , we now show that , in monocyte stimulate with lp or tnf alpha , il-10 inhibit nuclear stimulation of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf kappa b ) , a transcription factor involve in the expression of inflammatory cytokine gene . several other transcription factor include nf- il-6 , ap-1 , ap-2 , gr , creb , oct-1 , and sp-1 be not affect by il-10 .
this selective inhibition by il-10 of nf kappa b activation occur rapidly and in a dose-dependent manner and correlate well with il-10 's cytokine synthesis inhibitory activity in term of both kinetics and dose responsiveness .
furthermore , compound such a tosylphenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone and pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate that be know to selectively inhibit nf kappa b activation block cytokine gene transcription in lp -stimulated monocyte .
take together , these result suggest that inhibition of nf kappa b activation may be an important mechanism for il-10 suppression of cytokine gene transcription in human monocyte .
il-4 , another cytokine that inhibit cytokine mrna accumulation in monocyte , show little inhibitory effect on lp -induced nf kappa b activation .
far examination reveal that , unlike il-10 , il-4 enhance mrna degradation and do not suppress cytokine gene transcription .
these data indicate that il-10 and il-4 inhibit cytokine production by different mechanism .
nf-at activation induce by a caml -interacting member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily .
activation of the nuclear factor of activate t cell transcription factor ( nf-at ) be a key event underlie lymphocyte action .
the caml ( calcium-modulator and cyclophilin ligand ) protein be a coinducer of nf-at activation when overexpressed in jurkat t cell .
a member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily be isolate by virtue of it affinity for caml .
cross-linking of this lymphocyte-specific protein , designate taci ( transmembrane activator and caml -interactor ) , on the surface of transfected jurkat cell with taci -specific antibody lead to activation of the transcription factor nf-at , ap-1 , and nfkappab .
taci -induced activation of nf-at be specifically block by a dominant-negative caml mutant , thus implicate caml a a signal intermediate .
cd4 promoter transactivation by human herpesvirus 6 .
the observation that human herpesvirus 6 ( hhv-6 ) can induce cd4 gene transcription and expression in cd4(-) cell be report several year ago ( p.lusso , a.de maria , m.malnati , f.lori , s.e.derocco , m. baseler , and r.c.gallo , nature 349 : 533-535 , 1991 ) and subsequently confirm ( p.lusso , m.s.malnati , a.garzino-demo , r.w.crowley , e. o.long , and r.c.gallo , nature 362 : 458-462 , 1993 ; g.furlini , m. vignoli , e.ramazzotti , m.c.re , g.visani , and m.laplaca , blood 87 : 4737-4745 , 1996 ) .
our objective be to identify the mechanism underlie such phenomenon .
use reporter gene construct drive by the cd4 promoter , we report that hhv-6 can efficiently transactivate such genetic element .
activation of the cd4 promoter occur in the presence of the viral dna polymerase inhibitor phosphonoformic acid , which limit expression to the immediate-early and early class of viral gene .
use deletion mutant and specific cd4 promoter mutant , we identify an atf/cre binding site located at nucleotide -67 to -60 upstream of the cd4 gene transcription start site that be important for hhv-6 transactivation .
the atf/cre site be also essential for cd4 promoter activation by forskolin , an activator of adenylate cyclase .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay and specific antibody , we show that creb-1 bind specifically to the -79 to -52 region of the cd4 promoter .
last , we have identify two open reading frame ( orfs ) of hhv-6 , u86 and u89 from the immediate-early locus a , that can transactivate the cd4 promoter in hela cell .
however , transactivation of the cd4 promoter by orfs u86 and u89 be independent of the cre element , suggest that additional hhv-6 orfs be likely to contribute to cd4 gene activation .
take together , our result will help to understand the complex interaction occur between hhv-6 and the cd4 promoter and provide additional information regard the class of transcription factor involve in the control of cd4 gene expression .
a study on the circadian rhythm of glucocorticoid receptor .
circadian rhythm in glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) be study in the rat liver and human peripheral leukocyte .
for rat expose to a natural environmental photic cycle or a 12l : 12d artificial light regime , peak value of hepatic gr be detect between 23 : 00 and 02 : 00 h .
except for a 4-hour advancement of the peak , a similar circadian rhythm of hepatic gr be detect in rat rear under a reverse lighting regimen ( 12d : 12l ; light on between 18 : 30 and 06 : 30 h ) .
in human leukocyte , the peak value of gr be find to parallel that of plasma cortisol with high and low value detect at 04:00-08:00 h and 23:00-24:00 h , respectively .
in patient suffer from cushing 's syndrome , the circadian rhythm of plasma cortisol either disappear or be invert while that of gr do not significantly deviate from the normal subject .
for apoplexic patient with lesion localized to the base of the brain a indicate by computerize tomography , the diurnal variation of gr be abolish .
conversely , diurnal rhythmicity persist in apoplexy patient whose lesion be in the cerebral cortex .
thus , we postulate that the circadian modification of gr be independent of the diurnal fluctuation in plasma cortisol level or the circadian variation in environmental lighting and that the rhythmicity might be regulate by the ' circadian pacemaker ' located in the human basal brain .
these diurnal variation in gr might serve to coordinate the reactivity of the target cell to cortisol because the diurnal rhythm of a gr -mediated response , the fractional inhibition of chemotactic migration rate of polymorphonuclear leukocyte by cortisol , be find to be synchronous with those of gr .
a conserve tissue-specific structure at a human t-cell receptor beta-chain core promoter .
the t-cell receptor ( tcr ) beta-chain promoter have be characterize a nonstructured basal promoter that carry a single conserve ubiquitous cyclic amp-responsive element .
our investigation of the human tcr beta gene uncover a surprisingly complex and tissue-specific structure at the tcr vbeta 8.1 promoter .
the core of the promoter ( position -42 to +11 ) be recognize by the lymphoid cell -specific transcription factor ets-1 , lef1 , and aml1 as well a by creb/atf-1 , a be demonstrate in gel shift and footprinting experiment .
with the exception of lef1 , these factor activate transcription in t cell .
bind site at the core region show little conservation with consensus site .
nonetheless , creb , ets-1 , and aml1 bind and activate cooperatively and very efficiently through the nonconsensus bind site at the core promoter region .
moderate ubiquitous activation be far induce by creb/atf and sp1 factor through proximal upstream element .
the tissue-specific core promoter structure be apparently conserve in other t-cell-specifically express gene such a the cd4 gene .
our observation suggest that both the enhancer and the promoter have a complex tissue-specific structure whose functional interplay potentiate t-cell-specific transcription .
specific nf-kappa b subunit act in concert with tat to stimulate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription .
nf-kappa b be a protein complex which function in concert with the tat-i gene product to stimulate human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) transcription .
to determine whether specific member of the nf-kappa b family contribute to this effect , we have examine the ability of different nf-kappa b subunit to act with tat-i to stimulate transcription of hiv in jurkat t-leukemia cell .
we have find that the p49 ( 100 ) dna binding subunit , together with p65 , can act in concert with tat-i to stimulate the expression of hiv -cat plasmid .
little effect be observe with 50-kda form of p105 nf-kappa b or rel , in combination with p65 or full-length c-rel , which do not stimulate the hiv enhancer in these cell .
these finding suggest that the combination of p49 ( 100 ) and p65 nf-kappa b can act in concert with the tat-i gene product to stimulate the synthesis of hiv rna .
the scl protein display cell-specific heterogeneity in size .
scl protein production be examine in a variety of hemopoietic cell line by immunoblotting use specific polyclonal antiserum .
scl protein be detect in erythroid , megakaryocyte , mast and early myeloid cell line , as well a in several lymphoid leukemia cell line which be know to harbor scl gene rearrangement .
in most cell line , protein of molecular weight 49 and 44 kda be find , however two myeloid cell line express only low molecular weight specie of 24 and 22 kda .
this size discrepancy appear to be due to cell-specific translational regulation , since overexpression of a retrovirally transfected scl gene yield the high molecular weight form in most cell line ( gp+e-86 , at2.5 , m1 ) but only the 22 kda form in the myeloid cell line , wehi-3b/d+ .
overexpression of full-length scl protein in the lymphoid cell line , supt1 and raji , do not alter cell phenotype and there be no evidence for autoregulation of scl transcription .
the restricted pattern of scl protein synthesis be consistent with the restricted expression of scl mrna document previously .
in addition , the present result indicate that scl protein size be determine by regulation of translation in a cell-specific manner .
leukotriene b4 stimulate c-fos and c-jun gene transcription and ap-1 binding activity in human monocyte .
we have examine the effect of leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) , a potent lipid proinflammatory mediator , on the expression of the proto-oncogene c-jun and c-fos .
in addition , we look at the modulation of nuclear factor bind specifically to the ap-1 element after ltb4 stimulation .
ltb4 increase the expression of the c-fos gene in a time- and concentration-dependent manner .
the c-jun mrna , which be constitutively express in human peripheral-blood monocyte at relatively high level , be also slightly augmented by ltb4 , although to a much low extent than c-fos .
the kinetics of expression of the two gene be also slightly different , with c-fos mrna reach a peak at 15 min after stimulation and c-jun at 30 min .
both message rapidly decline thereafter .
stability of the c-fos and c-jun mrna be not affect by ltb4 , a assess after actinomycin d treatment .
nuclear transcription study in vitro show that ltb4 increase the transcription of the c-fos gene 7-fold and the c-jun gene 1.4-fold .
rest monocyte contain nuclear factor bind to the ap-1 element , but stimulation of monocyte with ltb4 induce great ap-1 -binding activity of nuclear protein .
these result indicate that ltb4 may regulate the production of different cytokine by modulate the yield and/or the function of transcription factor such a ap-1 -binding proto-oncogene product .
a critical role of the p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor ( p75tnf-r ) in organ inflammation independent of tnf , lymphotoxin alpha , or the p55tnf-r .
despite overwhelming evidence that enhance production of the p75 tumor necrosis factor receptor ( p75tnf-r ) accompany development of specific human inflammatory pathology such a multi-organ failure during sepsis , inflammatory liver disease , pancreatitis , respiratory distress syndrome , or aid , the function of this receptor remain poorly define in vivo .
we show here that at level relevant to human disease , production of the human p75tnf-r in transgenic mouse result in a severe inflammatory syndrome involve mainly the pancreas , liver , kidney , and lung , and characterize by constitutively increase nf-kappab activity in the peripheral blood mononuclear cell compartment .
this process be show to evolve independently of the presence of tnf , lymphotoxin alpha , or the p55tnf-r , although coexpression of a human tnf transgene accelerate pathology .
these result establish an independent role for enhance p75tnf-r production in the pathogenesis of inflammatory disease and implicate the direct involvement of this receptor in a wide range of human inflammatory pathology .
differential rna display identify novel gene associate with decrease vitamin d receptor expression .
to characterize far the function of the intracellular vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) , we have develop stable transfectant variant of a vitamin d-responsive cell line ( u937 ) which express either decrease or increase number of vdr .
in this study we have analyze change in gene expression associate with this variable vdr expression .
initial experiment indicate that a 50 % decrease in vdr level be associate with a 2-fold increase in cell proliferation and a similar rise in c-myc mrna expression .
further study be carry out use differential rna display ( dd ) .
sequence analysis of dd product reveal two cdna with identity to know gene product : the catalytic sub-unit of dna-protein kinase ( dna-pk(cs) ) , and the peroxisomal enzyme 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase type iv ( 17beta-hsd iv ) .
northern analysis confirm that expression of both mrna be reduce in cell with decrease number of vdr .
down-regulation of 17beta-hsd iv mrna expression be associate with enhance estradiol inactivation by u937 cell , suggest a link between estrogenic pathway and cell proliferation .
further northern analysis indicate that there be no significant change in 17beta-hsd iv or dna-pk(cs) mrna level follow treatment with 1,25(oh)2d3 , although expression of both gene vary with change in cell proliferation .
these data suggest that , in addition to it established role a a hormone-dependent trans-activator , vdr may influence gene expression by ligand-independent mechanism .
identification of a human lim-hox gene , hlh-2 , aberrantly express in chronic myelogenous leukaemia and located on 9q33-34.1 .
we describe the isolation of human lh-2 , a putative transcription factor contain two cysteine -rich region ( lim domain ) and a homeobox ( hox ) dna-binding domain .
high level of hlh-2 expression be observe in all case of chronic myelogenous leukaemia ( cml ) test , regardless of disease status .
hlh-2 be map to chromosome 9q33-34.1 , in the same region a the reciprocal translocation that create the bcr-abl chimera of the philadelphia chromosome ( ph ' ) , the hallmark of cml ; hlh-2 be retain on the derivative 9 chromosome and be therefore centromeric of c-abl .
the proximity of hlh-2 to the breakpoint on chromosome 9 raise the possibility of cis-activation by the t(9;22)(q34;q11) translocation .
in addition to find hlh-2 expression in all case of cml , expression be observe in lymphoid malignancy and myeloid cell line , but not in primary case of acute myelogenous leukaemia .
the role of hlh-2 in the development or progression of leukaemia be not know .
however , hlh-2 may prove useful a a marker of cml for monitor residual disease .
glucocorticoid receptor regulate expression of l-selectin and cd11/cd18 on human neutrophil [ see comment ]
background : recent study have raise the hypothesis that glucocorticoid could diminish the ability of endothelial cell to direct leukocyte traffic into inflamed tissue by inhibit expression of the adhesion molecule endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 .
the aim of the present study be to investigate whether glucocorticoid also regulate the expression of l-selectin and cd11/cd18 integrins on human neutrophil granulocyte .
method and result : incubation of human whole blood with platelet-activating factor ( paf , 1 mumol/l ) evoke downregulation of l-selectin and upregulation of cd11/cd18 adhesion receptor on neutrophil a measure by flow cytometry .
while dexamethasone ( 0.1 nmol/l to 100 mumol/l ) do not affect expression of adhesion molecule on rest neutrophil , it attenuate the paf -induced change in l-selectin and cd18 expression in a time- and concentration-dependent fashion with ic50 value of 31 and 13 nmol/l , respectively .
these effect of dexamethasone be completely abort by ru-486 ( 10 mumol/l ) , which block transcriptional activation of the glucocorticoid receptor , and by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide ( 35.5 mumol/l ) .
dexamethasone , up to a concentration of 1 mumol/l , neither affect significantly the release of granule enzyme nor interfere with paf bind to it membrane receptor .
conclusion : our result show that glucocorticoid at clinically relevant concentration exert specific action on expression of adhesion molecule on activate neutrophil , which be mediate through ligation of glucocorticoid receptor and induction of protein synthesis , and suggest a novel mechanism by which anti-inflammatory corticosteroid may inhibit leukocyte accumulation .
control of nf-kappa b activity by the i kappa b beta inhibitor .
the transcription factor nf-kappa b be maintained in an inactive cytoplasmic state by i kappa b inhibitor .
in mammalian cell , i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta protein have be purify and show to be the inhibitor of nf-kappa b through their association with the p65 or c-rel subunit .
in addition , we have isolate a third nf-kappa b inhibitor , i kappa b epsilon ( 1 ) .
upon treatment with a large variety of inducer , i kappa b alpha , i kappa b beta be proteolytically degrade , result in nf-kappa b translocation into the nucleus .
here we show that in e29.1 t cell hybridoma i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta be equally associate with p65 and that i kappa b beta be degrade in response to tnf alpha in contrast to what have be originally publish .
our data also suggest that , unlike i kappa b alpha , i kappa b beta be constitutively phosphorylated and resynthesized a a hypophosphorylated form .
the absence of slow migrating form of i kappa b beta follow stimulation suggest that the phosphorylation do not necessarily constitute the signal-induced event which target the molecule for proteolysis .
ra -dependent , ca2+ -stimulated activation of nuclear factor of activate t cell by a constitutively active cbl mutant in t cell .
t cell receptor ( tcr ) stimulation induce rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular protein , include cbl , a protooncogene product whose function remain unclear .
a a first step toward elucidate the function of cbl in tcr -initiated signaling , we evaluate the ability of wild-type cbl or a transform cbl mutant ( 70z/3 ) to induce transcriptional activation of a nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) element derive from the interleukin 2 ( il2 ) promoter in transiently cotransfected jurkat-tag t cell .
70z/3 , but not cbl , cause nfat activation which be significantly enhance by stimulation with calcium ionophore , and be drastically reduce by cyclosporin a pretreatment .
a point mutation of a potential phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3-k ) binding site ( y731eam to y731eac ) in 70z/3 disrupt the association of pi3-k with 70z/3 , but do not reduce the induction of nfat activity , suggest that the interaction between cbl and pi3-k be not require in the 70z/3 -mediated induction of nfat .
additional mapping study indicate that define deletion of c-terminal 70z/3 sequence affect to a variable degree it ability to stimulate nfat activity .
strikingly , deletion of 346 c-terminal residue augment this activity , whereas removal of 20 additional residue abolish it .
coexpression of dominant negative ra abrogate the basal or ionomycin-stimulated , 70z/3 -mediated nfat activation , suggest a functional ra be require for this activation .
these result implicate cbl in ra -dependent signaling pathway which lead to nfat activation .
alternative splicing of rna transcript encode by the murine p105 nf-kappa b gene generate i kappa b gamma isoforms with different inhibitory activity .
the gene encode the 105-kda protein ( p105 ) precursor of the p50 subunit of transcription factor nf-kappa b also encode a p70 i kappa b protein , i kappa b gamma , which be identical to the c-terminal 607 amino acid of p105 .
here we show that alternative rna splicing generate i kappa b gamma isoforms with property different from those of p70 .
one 63-kda isoform , term i kappa b gamma-1 , which lack 59 amino acid c-terminal to ankyrin repeat 7 , have a novel 35-amino acid c terminus encode by an alternative reading frame of the p105 gene .
a 55-kda isoform , i kappa b gamma-2 , lack the 190 c-terminal amino acid of p70 i kappa b gamma .
in contrast to p70 i kappa b gamma , which be a cytoplasmic protein , i kappa b gamma-1 be find in both the cytoplasm and nucleus , whereas i kappa b gamma-2 be predominantly nuclear .
the i kappa b gamma isoforms also display difference in specificity and affinity for rel/ nf-kappa b protein .
while p70 i kappa b gamma inhibit p50- , p65- , and c-rel- mediated transactivation and/or dna binding , both i kappa b gamma-1 and i kappa b gamma-2 be specific for p50 and have different affinity for this subunit .
the absence in i kappa b gamma-1 and i kappa b gamma-2 of a protein kinase a site whose phosphorylation modulate p70 i kappa b gamma inhibitory activity suggest that alternative rna splicing may be use to generate i kappa b gamma isoforms that respond differently to intracellular signal .
a t cell-specific enhancer in the interleukin-3 locus be activate cooperatively by oct and nfat element within a dnase i-hypersensitive site .
interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) be a cytokine that be express primarily in activate t cell .
here we identify an inducible t cell-specific enhancer 14 kb upstream of the il-3 gene that respond to activation of t cell receptor signaling pathway .
the il-3 enhancer span an inducible cyclosporin a -sensitive dnase i-hypersensitive site find only in t cell .
four nfat-like element exist within the enhancer .
the two most active nfat-like element be located at the center of the dnase i-hypersensitive site .
one of these nfat-like element encompass overlap oct- and nfatp/c- binding site , which function in a highly synergistic manner .
we suggest that the t cell- specific expression of the il-3 gene be partly control through the enhancer by cooperation between oct and nfat family protein .
relationship between ikappabalpha constitutive expression , tnfalpha synthesis , and apoptosis in ebv-infected lymphoblastoid cell .
in order to understand the role of nf-kappab in ebv transformation we have establish stably transfected ikappabalpha into lymphoblastoid cell .
two clone be obtain in which the loss of nf-kappab binding activity correlate with the constitutive expression of the transgenic ikappabalpha .
protein latency expression be determine by immunocytochemistry .
expression of surface marker , intracytoplasmic content of cytokine cell cycle analysis after brdu incorporation and dna staining with propidium iodide be study by flow cytometry .
percentage of apoptotic cell be determine by in-situ labelling of dna strand break .
no significative change in ebv latency nor in cell surface marker expression be find .
in contrast , intracytoplasmic tnfalpha level be strongly reduce in transfected clone .
furthermore , 30 % of ikappabalpha transfected cell be apoptotic after 8 h of tnfalpha treatment .
this correlate with a strong reduction of brdu incorporation after 24 h of tnfalpha treatment .
no effect be see with non transfected cell or with cell transfected with a control plasmid .
our result suggest that the tnfalpha gene could be one of the target of nf-kappab in ebv infected cell and that nf-kappab protect ebv -infected cell from apoptosis induce by tnfalpha , which may favour the proliferative effect of this cytokine .
single point estimation of glucocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte of normal subject and of child under long term glucocorticoid treatment .
a single point assay of glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) in human lymphocyte base on the measurement of specific dexamethasone binding have be develop and compare with a common multi-point scatchard analysis .
the assay conditions-concentration of the ligand 20 nmol/l , incubation time 2 h and the cell count 2-6 mil.
cells/tube in the assay volume 0.25 ml be find to be optimal .
an attempt be also undertake to use a cell harvester for the separation of cell from unbound ligand .
though specifically bind dexamethasone measure by whole-cell assay and that use cell harvester correlate well , almost by one order low value obtain with the latter method render it non-applicable for receptor quantitation .
the result from 9 healthy volunteer ( average gr concentration 7131 +/- 1256 sites/cell ) correlate excellently with those obtain by the scatchard analysis .
the single point assay have be also apply for determination of gh in 10 child treat with large dos of prednisone .
the average value from healthy volunteer do not differ significantly from those find in these child , though much broad range be find in patient .
the macrophage transcription factor pu.1 direct tissue-specific expression of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor .
the macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) receptor be express in a tissue-specific fashion from two distinct promoter in monocytes/macrophages and the placenta .
in order to far understand the transcription factor which play a role in the commitment of multipotential progenitor to the monocyte/macrophage lineage , we have initiate an investigation of the factor which activate the m-csf receptor very early during the monocyte differentiation process .
here we demonstrate that the human monocytic m-csf receptor promoter direct reporter gene activity in a tissue-specific fashion .
since one of the few transcription factor which have be implicate in the regulation of monocyte gene be the macrophage- and b-cell-specific pu.1 transcription factor , we investigate whether pu.1 bind and activate the m-csf receptor promoter .
here we demonstrate that both in vitro-translated pu.1 and pu.1 from nuclear extract bind to a specific site in the m-csf receptor promoter just upstream from the major transcription initiation site .
mutation in this site which eliminate pu.1 binding decrease m-csf receptor promoter activity significantly in macrophage cell line only .
furthermore , pu.1 transactivates the m-csf receptor promoter in nonmacrophage cell .
these result suggest that pu.1 play a major role in macrophage gene regulation and development by direct the expression of a receptor for a key macrophage growth factor .
interferon alpha selectively affect expression of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen in late stage cell in the monocytic but not the granulocytic lineage .
the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen ( mnda ) be express constitutively in cell of the myeloid lineage , appear in myeloblast cell in some case of acute myeloid leukemia and consistently be detect in promyelocyte stage cell as well a in all late stage cell include peripheral blood monocyte and granulocyte .
the human myeloid leukemia cell line , hl-60 , u937 , and thp-1 , express similar level of immunochemically detectable mnda .
although , the level of mnda mrna in primary monocyte be very low it be up-regulated at 6 h follow the addition of interferon alpha .
the effect of interferon alpha on the mnda mrna be also observe in the cell line hl-60 , u937 , and thp-1 .
the mnda mrna level in primary granulocyte be unaffected by addition of interferon alpha and other agent include interferon gamma , endotoxin , poly_(i).poly_(c) , and fmlp .
the mnda mrna level in the myeloid cell line be also unaffected by the latter four agent .
induction of differentiation in the myeloid cell line with phorbol ester induce monocyte differentiation which be accompany by a decrease in mnda mrna level .
this reduced level of mrna could then be elevated with subsequent interferon alpha treatment .
the effect of phorbol ester on mnda mrna appear to be associate with induce differentiation since inhibit cell proliferation do not alter the level of mnda mrna and cell cycle variation in mnda mrna level be not observe .
the ability of interferon alpha to up-regulate mnda mrna in phorbol ester treated myeloid cell line be consistent with the observation make in primary monocyte .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
interferon induce normal and aberrant retinoic-acid receptor type alpha in acute promyelocytic leukemia cell : potentiation of the induction of retinoid -dependent differentiation marker .
treatment of the acute promyelocytic ( apl ) cell line nb4 with interferon alpha ( ifn ( alpha ) ) , as well a ifn ( beta ) and gamma , result in an increase expression of the transcript cod for retinoic-acid receptor type alpha ( rar ( alpha ) ) and the leukemia-specific retinoic acid receptor pml-rar .
transcriptional induction of the rar ( alpha ) and pml-rar mrna be rapid and it be parallel by an increase in the corresponding protein .
up-regulation of rar ( alpha ) and pml-rar gene expression by ifn ( alpha ) be accompany by a strong potentiation in the induction of 2 retinoid -dependent granulocytic marker , i.e. , granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor receptor mrna and leukocyte alkaline phosphatase .
however , ifn ( alpha ) do not have any effect on the retinoid -dependent regulation of the myeloid surface marker cd11b and cd33 .
the ifn -dependent increase in rar ( alpha ) level and the enhancing effect of the cytokine on retinoid -dependent granulocytic marker expression may be a characteristic of pml-rar positive cell , since the phenomenon be not observe in hl-60 promyelocytes .
interferon as well a retinoids inhibit the growth of nb4 cell , although the 2 class of compound do not significantly interact in term of anti-proliferative activity .
these result suggest the possible use of combination between ifns and retinoic acid in the cyto-differentiating treatment of apl patient .
expression of transcription factor during sodium phenylacetate induce erythroid differentiation in k562 cell .
during 15 day of treatment of k562 cell with sodium phenylacetate , we observe an increase in the cellular hemoglobin concentration with a similar increase in the expression of gamma-globin mrna .
morphological study demonstrate characteristic feature of erythroid differentiation and maturation .
at the same time there be no change in the level of expression of the cell surface antigenes cd33 , cd34 , cd45 , cd71 and glycophorin a .
likewise , the level of expression of the erythroid transcription factor gata-1 , gata-2 , nf-e2 , scl and rbtn2 , all express in untreated k562 cell , do not increase during sodium phenylacetate induced erythroid differentiation .
the expression of the nuclear factor evi-1 and c-myb , know to inhibit erythroid differentiation , do not decrease .
we conclude that sodium phenylacetate treatment of k562 cell increase gamma-globin mrna and induce cell maturation a judge by morphology without affect the expression of the erythroid transcription factor , some of which be know to be involve in the regulation of beta-like globin gene .
the effect of toremifene on the expression of some gene in human mononuclear cell .
toremifene exert multiple and varied effect on the gene expression of human peripheral mononuclear cell .
after short-term , in vitro exposure to therapeutical level , distinct change in p-glycoprotein , steroid receptor , p53 and bcl-2 expression take place .
in view of the increase use of antiestrogens in cancer therapy and prevention , there be obvious merit in long-term in vivo study to be conduct .
change in triiodothyronine ( t3 ) mononuclear leukocyte receptor kinetics after t3 administration and multiple cold-air exposure .
repeat cold-air exposure increase human triiodothyronine ( t3 ) plasma clearance rate .
to study the response of the nuclear t3 receptor ( nt3r ) in this condition , bind characteristic be analyze in human mononuclear leukocyte ( mnl ) .
in addition , we supplement one group of individual with a daily oral replacement dose of t3 to isolate the influence of serum thyroxine ( t4 ) and thyrotropin ( tsh ) level on receptor kinetics .
the subject be expose to cold air ( 4 degree c ) twice/d , 30 min/exposure , for a total of 80 exposure .
the t3 -subjects receive placebo [ n = 8 ] and the t3 + subject receive t3 ( 30 micrograms/d ) [ n = 8 ] in a double-blind fashion .
mononuclear leukocyte be isolate from peripheral blood before the cold exposure and drug regimen begin , and then after every 20 exposure .
the dissociation constant ( kd ) and maximum binding capacity ( mbc ) of the nt3r value be log transform to minimize between-subject variability .
in the t3 + group , serum total thyroxine ( tt4 ) , free t4 ( ft4 ) , and tsh be approx 50 % low than both basal and t3 -values .
the log10kd increase 0.304 +/- 0.139 ( p < 0.04 ) and the log10mbc increase 0.49 +/- 0.10 ( p < 0.001 ) in the t3 + subject compare to baseline .
this change in mbc represent a 311 % increase in the mbc over baseline and a fivefold increase over placebo-treated subject .
the t3 -group show no change in mbc over the study .
these result describe for the first time the rapid modulation of the nt3r in response to the combined influence of cold exposure and reduce circulate t4 and tsh .
hiv1 infection of human monocyte and macrophage promote induction or translocation of nf-kb-related factor .
in 1991 , we demonstrate , use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , that 3 different factor ( term b1 , b2 and b3 ) with affinity for the kb-enhancer target sequence be specifically detect in nuclear extract from hiv1 -infected monocyte and macrophage .
the b2 factor be induce in the nucleus of these cell only upon hiv1 infection .
the b3 factor be only slightly evident in nucleus of uninfected cell but be readily detectable in nucleus of infected monocyte .
it expression remain very low in nucleus of hiv1 -infected macrophage .
in this paper , we demonstrate that the b2 factor be express in the cytosol of monocyte and macrophage a a dna-binding protein , indicate that it be not associate with an inhibitor ( ikb ) .
this factor remain cluster in the cytosol and be translocate to the nucleus only after hiv1 infection .
the b3 factor be detect in the cytosol only when cell be hiv1 -infected .
the role of hiv1 infection in the expression and the translocation of these factor be discuss .
induce myeloid differentiation of k562 cell with downregulation of erythroid and megakaryocytic transcription factor : a novel experimental model for hemopoietic lineage restriction .
the human erythroleukemia cell line k562 can be induce to differentiate along the erythroid and megakaryocytic lineage .
here we demonstrate that hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba ) induce k562 cell to differentiate along a third pathway .
this be accompany by downregulation of two transcription factor normally express in erythroid , mast and megakaryocyte lineage .
northern analysis demonstrate coordinate downregulation of alpha globin and gamma globin in addition to the two lineage-restricted transcription factor , scl and gata-1 .
proliferation of the k562 cell be also suppress .
clonal assay show that the suppression be irreversible and appear analogous to the commitment of murine erythroleukemia ( mel ) cell to terminal differentiation .
in contrast to mel cell , however , k562 cell acquire a macrophage-like morphology and exhibit a complete failure to generate benzidine-positive cell .
electron microscopy reveal a marked increase in granule resemble those specific for eosinophil .
surface marker analysis show that hmba-induced cell express reduce level of glycophorin a , cd5 , cd7 and cd11b .
no upregulation of megakaryocyte or lymphoid marker occur .
thus the response of k562 cell to hmba may provide a useful experimental system for study the molecular mechanism responsible for downmodulation of lineage-restricted transcription factor during hemopoietic lineage commitment .
heterogeneous expression of the lipocalin ngal in primary breast cancer .
we have previously show that neu oncogene-initiated rat mammary carcinoma uniquely over-express neu-related lipocalin ( nrl ) , a member of the calycin protein superfamily .
here , we characterize the putative human homolog of nrl , neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin ( ngal ) .
ngal gene expression be find at moderate level in only 2 of 17 human tissue examine , breast and lung .
when breast cancer be examine for ngal mrna and protein level , they be find to exhibit heterogeneous expression .
ngal level vary in these tumor from undetectable to exceed those in normal breast parenchyma .
immuno-histochemical analysis confirm the presence of ngal within breast carcinoma cell but detect only low level of this protein in normal ductal epithelium .
in contrast , large amount of the protein be localized to the lumen of normal breast duct in the vicinity of ngal -expressing tumor .
interestingly , unlike nrl in rat mammary carcinoma , no significant association between ngal expression and her-2/neu activation be find in human breast tumor .
in contrast , a significant correlation between ngal expression in breast cancer be find with several other marker of poor prognosis , include estrogen and progesterone receptor -negative status and high proliferation ( s-phase fraction ) .
ngal level be stratify a high or low in breast cancer from a cohort of node-positive patient with known outcome .
no significant association between ngal expression and disease-free or overall survival be observe .
identification of the promoter region of chicken anemia virus ( cav ) contain a novel enhancer-like element .
the single promoter region in the clone genome [ noteborn et al. , j. virol. 65 ( 1991 ) 3131-3139 ] of chicken anemia virus ( cav ) in chicken t-cells be analysed via cat assay .
a unique region contain four or five near-perfect direct repeat ( dr ) of 21 bp with one 12-bp insert be prove to be the main transcription-activation element , with enhancer-like characteristic .
pcr study reveal that cav isolates from across the world all contain this promoter sequence .
electrophoretic mobility-shift assay ( emsa ) show that individual dr unit , as well a the 12-bp insert , can bind to nuclear factor of chicken t-cells .
competition assay reveal that the dr unit bind to factor other than the 12-bp insert .
a synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotide contain an sp1-box ( 5'-gggcgg ) could compete with factor bind to the 12-bp insert .
purify human sp1 be show to have very strong affinity for the 12-bp insert .
mycobacterium tuberculosis mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan can induce nf-kappab -dependent activation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat in t cell .
tuberculosis have emerge a an epidemic , extend by the large number of individual infect with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) .
the major goal of this study be to determine whether the mycobacterial cell wall component mannose-capped lipoarabinomannan ( manlam ) of mycobacterium tuberculosis ( m. tuberculosis ) could activate transcription of hiv-1 in t cell with the use of an in vitro cell culture system .
these experiment be of prime importance consider that cd4 -expressing t lymphocyte represent the major virus reservoir in the peripheral blood of infected individual .
use the 1g5 cell line harbour the luciferase reporter gene under the control of the hiv-1 ltr , it be first find that culture protein filtrate ( cfp ) from m. tuberculosis or purify manlam could activate hiv-1 ltr -dependent gene expression unlike similarly prepare cfp extract devoid of manlam .
the implication of protein tyrosine kinase ( s ) , protein kinase a and/or protein kinase c be highlight by the abrogation of the manlam -mediated activation of hiv-1 ltr -driven gene expression use herbimycin a and h7 .
it be also determine , use electrophoresis mobility shift assay , that m. tuberculosis manlam lead to the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor nf-kappab .
m. tuberculosis manlam result in clear induction of the luciferase gene place under the control of the wild-type , but not the kappab -mutated , hiv-1 ltr region .
finally , the manlam -mediated activation of hiv-1 ltr transcription be find to be independent of the autocrine or paracrine action of endogenous tnf-alpha .
the result suggest that m. tuberculosis can upregulate hiv-1 expression in t cell and could thus have the potential to influence the pathogenesis of hiv-1 infection .
human t cell leukemia virus-i ( htlv-i ) tax -mediated apoptosis in activate t cell require an enhance intracellular prooxidant state .
we have show that an estradiol-dependent activation of human t cell leukemia virus-i tax lead to the inhibition of cell proliferation and to the induction of apoptosis .
the present study demonstrate that a hormone-dependent activation of tax promote an enhance prooxidant state in stably transfected jurkat cell a measure by change in the intracellular level of glutathione and h2o2 ; these change be follow by apoptotic cell death .
additional stimulation of the cd3 /tcr pathway enhance the oxidative and apoptotic effect .
both tax -mediated apoptosis and oxidative stress can be potently suppress by antioxidant , a be see with the administration of recombinant thioredoxin ( adult t cell leukemia-derived factor ) or pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate .
hormone-induced tax activation induce a long-lasting activation of nf-kappab , which be a major target of reactive oxygen intermediate .
the long-term exposure of jurkat cell to hormone eventually result in a selection of cell clone that have lose tax activity .
a subsequent transfection of these apparently " nonresponsive " clone allow the recovery of tax response in these cell .
our observation indicate that change in the intracellular redox status may be a determine factor in tax -mediated dna damage , apoptosis , and selection against the long-term expression of tax function .
cd30 ligation induce nuclear factor-kappa b activation in human t cell line .
cd30 be a recently describe member of the tumor necrosis factor /nerve growth factor receptor superfamily .
in this report , we show that follow incubation of l540 cell ( hodgkin 's disease -derived , t cell-like , cd30 + cell ) with the agonistic anti- cd30 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) m44 and m67 , two nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b dna binding activity be induce in nuclear extract , a determine in gel retardation assay .
the effect of the mab towards nf-kappa b activation be rapid , a it occur within 20 min , and be sustained for up to 6 h .
by comparison , an isotype-matched antibody have no effect on nf-kappa b activation .
moreover , in human t helper ( th ) clone functionally characterize a be of the type 0 , type 1 and type 2 ( 28 % , < 1 % und 93 % cd30+ , respectively ) , the extent of cd30 -mediated nf-kappa b activation correlate with the proportion of cd30+ cell .
in all cell line investigate , the nf-kappa b complex induce follow cd30 engagement be show to contain p50 nf-kappa b1 , p65 rela , and possibly other transcription factor .
collectively , our result demonstrate that nuclear translocation and activation of nf-kappa b rank among the short-term cellular response elicit follow cd30 ligation .
dimerization of nf-kb2 with rela ( p65 ) regulate dna binding , transcriptional activation , and inhibition by an i kappa b -alpha ( mad-3 ) .
inducible expression of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) be regulate by a cellular transcription factor , nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) .
nf-kappa b be compose of distinct subunit ; five independent gene , nfkb1 ( p105 ) , nfkb2 ( p100 ) , rela ( p65 ) , c-rel and relb , that encode related protein that bind to kappa b dna element have be isolate .
we have previously find that nfkb2 ( p49/p52 ) act in concert with rela ( p65 ) to stimulate the hiv enhancer in jurkat t-leukemia cell .
here we examine the biochemical basis for the transcriptional regulation of hiv by nfkb2 .
use scatchard analysis , we have determine the dissociation constant of homodimeric p49 and heterodimeric p49/p65 for binding to the hiv kappa b site .
p49 have a approximately 18-fold-lower affinity for the hiv kappa b site ( kd = 69.1 pm ) than do the approximately 50-kda protein nfkb1 ( p50 ) derive from p105 ( kd = 3.9 pm ) .
in contrast , the affinity of heterodimeric nfkb2 ( p49 ) / rela ( p65 ) for this site be approximately 6-fold high ( kd = 11.8 pm ) than that of p49 alone .
consistent with these finding , in vitro transcription be stimulate 18-fold by the addition of preformed , heterodimeric nfkb2 ( p49 ) / rela ( p65 ) protein .
transcriptional activation of the hiv enhancer be also subject to regulation by recently clone i kappa b-alpha ( mad-3 ) .
recombinant i kappa b-alpha ( mad-3 ) inhibit the dna binding activity of p65 , p49/p65 , and p50/p65 but stimulate the binding of nfkb2 ( p49 ) or nfkb1 ( p50 ) .
functional activation of an hiv reporter plasmid by p49/p65 in transiently transfected jurkat t-leukemia cell be also inhibit by coexpression of mad-3 .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
effect of overexpression of il-1 receptor-associated kinase on nfkappab activation , il-2 production and stress-activated protein kinase in the murine t cell line el4 .
the association and activation of the il-1 receptor-associated protein kinase ( irak ) to the il-1 receptor complex be one of the early event detectable in il-1 signal transduction .
we generate permanent clone of the murine t cell line el4 6.1 overexpressing human ( h ) irak to evaluate the role of this kinase in il-1 signaling .
overexpression of hirak enhance il-1 -stimulated activation of the transcription factor nfkappab , whereas a truncate form ( n-irak ) specifically inhibit il-1 -dependent nfkappab activity .
in clone stably overexpressing hirak a weak constitutive activation of nfkappab correlate with a low basal il-2 production which be enhance in an il-1 -dependent manner .
compare to the parental cell line the dose-response curve of il-1 -induced il-2 production be shift in both potency and efficacy .
these result demonstrate that irak directly trigger nfkappab -mediated gene expression in el4 cell .
qualitatively different effect be observe for the il-1 -induced activation of stress-activated protein ( sap ) kinase : permanent overexpression of irak do not affect the dose dependence but prolong the kinetics of il-1 -induced activation of sap kinase , suggest that this signal branch may be regulate by distinct mechanism .
lymphocyte from cml patient lack a 47 kda factor have affinity for a genomic sterol regulatory sequence .
derange cellular cholesterol homeostasis have be widely recognize in the initiation as well a progression of various type of cancer include chronic myeloid leukaemia ( cml ) .
since the human genomic sterol regulatory element ( sre ) have be show to regulate various key gene involve in this phenomenon , the present study reveal the existence of a unique 47 kda protein factor have affinity for this sre sequence in lymphocyte from normal subject , as well a it absence in lymphocyte from untreated cml patient .
however , this factor appear when these cml patient achieve complete haematological remission ( chr ) through alpha-interferon therapy .
furthermore , an inverse relationship be also observe between the ldl receptor gene expression at the transcriptional level and the binding affinity of this 47 kda protein factor to the sre sequence .
base upon these result we propose that this factor may have a role in pathophysiology of chronic myeloid leukaemia .
the rar-rxr as well a the rxr-rxr pathway be involve in signaling growth inhibition of human cd34+ erythroid progenitor cell .
previous study have show that retinoic acid ( ra ) , similar to tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , can act a a bifunctional regulator of the growth of bone marrow progenitor , in that it can stimulate granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) - or interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) - induced gm colony formation , but potently inhibit g-csf -induced growth .
the present study , use highly enrich human cd34+ as well a lin-_murine bone marrow progenitor cell , demonstrate a potent inhibitory effect of 9-cis-ra on burst-forming unit-erythroid ( bfu-e ) colony formation regardless of the cytokine stimulating growth .
specifically , 9-cis-ra potently inhibit the growth of bfu-e response to erythropoietin ( epo ) ( 100 % ) , stem cell factor ( scf ) + epo ( 92 % ) , il-3 + epo ( 97 % ) , il-4 + epo ( 88 % ) , and il-9 + epo ( 100 % ) .
erythroid colony growth be also inhibit when cd34+ progenitor be seed at one cell per well , suggest a direct action of ra .
use synthetic ligand to retinoic acid receptor ( rars ) and retinoid x receptor ( rxrs ) that selectively bind and activate rar-rxr or rxr-rxr dimer , respectively , we dissect the involvement of the two retinoid response pathway in the regulation of normal myeloid and erythroid progenitor cell growth .
transactivation study show that both the rar ( ro 13-7410 ) and rxr ( ro 25-6603 and ro 25-7386 ) ligand be highly selective at 100 nmol/l .
at this concentration , ro 13-7410 potently inhibit g-csf -stimulated myeloid as well a scf + epo -induced erythroid colony growth .
at the same concentration , ro 25-6603 and ro 25-7386 have little or no effect on g-csf -induced colony formation , whereas they inhibit 75 % and 53 % , respectively , of scf + epo -stimulated bfu-e colony growth .
thus , the rar-rxr response pathway can signal growth inhibition of normal bone marrow myeloid and erythroid progenitor cell .
in addition , we demonstrate a unique involvement of the rxr-rxr pathway in mediate growth inhibition of erythroid but not myeloid progenitor cell .
glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis of lymphoid cell .
the induction of cell death in lymphoid cell by glucocorticoid be one of the early and most thoroughly study model of apoptosis .
although the exact mechanism by which apoptosis occur in lymphocyte be unknown many biochemical and molecular change have be show to occur in these cell in response to glucocorticoid .
the role of chromatin degradation and endonuclease in the apoptotic process have be closely study , as well a the involvement of several oncogene in glucocorticoid -induced cell lysis .
in addition , the clinical importance of glucocorticoid -induced apoptosis in the treatment of lymphoid neoplasm have recently receive increase attention .
expression of transcription factor gene after influenza a virus infection .
infection of human monocyte with influenza a virus induce a broad range of proinflammatory cytokine and mononuclear cell attracting chemokines before the infected cell undergo apoptosis .
the underlie mechanism by which the corresponding gene be transcriptionally initiate after virus infection be still poorly understand .
activation of nf-kappa b seem to play an important role in the regulation of many proinflammatory cytokine gene , but can not be the only mechanism , since several cytokine gene lack respective bind site in their promoter region .
therefore , we additionally investigate other transcription factor of possible importance such a creb , ctf , otf-1 , and otf-2 .
to explore long-term regulatory mechanism , we investigate the induction of transcription factor on the gene expression level which may be important to substitute for metabolize transcription factor protein after their activation .
we identify a cell-type-specific differential response : creb , ctf , otf-1 , oft-2 , and nf-kappa b gene be strongly induce 1 to 4 hour after influenza a virus infection in the monocytic cell line mono mac 6 , while in freshly prepare human monocyte no significant change be detect .
in infected monocyte , which die by apoptosis , the expression of creb , ctf , and otf-2 be rather suppress 8 hour after infection .
in conclusion , the long-term regulation of transcription factor gene expression in non-proliferating cell seem to be of minor importance after influenza infection since in apoptosisprone cell an immediate availability of transcription factor protein be require .
induction of sp1 phosphorylation and nf-kappa b -independent hiv promoter domain activity in t lymphocyte stimulate by okadaic acid .
in contrast to the purely enhancer-dependent effect of cytokine such a tnf on the activity of the hiv regulatory region ( ltr ) , we observe that okadaic acid ( oka ) activate hiv transcription through both the enhancer , respond to the factor nf-kappa b , and the promoter domain of the ltr .
the inducibility of hiv ltr -driven luciferase expression construct in lymphoblastoid cell stimulate by oka depend on both functional sp1 binding element and the ability of the tata box to bind the protein tbp .
in both transform and normal lymphocyte , oka stimulation induce intense phosphorylation of the constitutively express sp1 protein in the nucleus , a property of oka not share by tnf , phorbol ester , or pha and interleukin 2 .
responsiveness of ltr construct delete of kappa b element to hiv tat expression be increase upon oka but not tnf stimulation .
our result suggest that sp1 phosphorylation induce by oka , a selective inhibitor of the serine-threonine phosphatase pp2a , facilitate the formation of a transcription complex involve general transcription factor , hiv tat , and sp1 protein .
the formation of this complex would increase , independently of an in synergy with nf-kappa b , the low basal activity of the hiv ltr observe in normal t lymphocyte .
e2f-1 block terminal differentiation and cause proliferation in transgenic megakaryocyte .
the transcription factor e2f-1 play a central role in the cell cycle through it ability to activate gene involve in cell division .
e2f-1 activity be regulate by a number of protein , include the retinoblastoma susceptibility gene product , cyclin-dependent kinase , and their inhibitor , protein that have be implicate in the control of certain developmental process .
to investigate a potential role of e2f-1 in differentiation , we assay the ability of megakaryocyte to form platelet in an in vivo transgenic model .
e2f-1 expression in megakaryocyte block differentiation during maturation , result in severe thrombocytopenia .
ultrastructural analysis of megakaryocyte reveal abnormal development characterize by hyperdemarcation of cytoplasmic membrane and reduce number of alpha granule .
administration of megakaryocyte growth and development factor or interleukin 6 could not overcome the differentiation block .
additionally , e2f-1 cause massive megakaryocyte accumulation in both normal and ectopic site , first evident in e15 embryonic liver .
furthermore , significant apoptosis be observe in transgenic megakaryocyte .
these data indicate that e2f-1 can prevent terminal differentiation , probably through it cell cycle -stimulatory activity .
loss- and gain-of-function mutation reveal an important role of bsap ( pax-5 ) at the start and end of b cell differentiation .
pax-5 cod for the transcription factor bsap which be express throughout b cell development except in terminally differentiate plasma cell .
gene targeting experiment in the mouse reveal a differential dependency of fetal and adult b-lymphopoiesis on this transcription factor .
bsap be require for b-lineage commitment in the fetal liver and for progression beyond an early pro-b cell stage in adult bone marrow .
the characterization of pax-5 -deficient pro-b cell demonstrate an important role of bsap in the regulation of the cd19 , mb-1 ( ig alpha ) and n-myc gene as well a in the developmental pathway control vh-to-dhjh recombination at the immunoglobulin heavy-chain ( igh ) locus .
the human pax-5 gene be recently show to participate together with the igh locus in the chromosomal translocation t(9;14)(p13;q32) .
this translocation be characteristic of a small subset of non-hodgkin lymphoma exhibit plasmacytoid differentiation .
the translocated pax-5 gene be deregulate by the insertion of igh regulatory element into it 5' region , which may contribute to tumorigenesis by interfere with the shut-down of pax-5 transcription and thus with the completion of plasma cell differentiation
human immunodeficiency virus type-2 gene expression : two enhancer and their activation by t-cell activator .
the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) may include a spectrum of retrovirus with vary potential to infect their host , undergo long period of latent infection , and induce pathology .
since expression of the virus be in large part regulate by the sequence element in their long terminal repeat ( ltrs ) , this study be direct to an analysis of the regulatory element in the hiv-2 ltr .
the hiv-2 ltr be find to contain two enhancer .
one of these enhancer be , in part , identical to the hiv-1 enhancer .
this enhancer in hiv-1 be the t-cell activation response element ; in hiv-2 , however , it be the second enhancer that be mainly responsible for activation in response to t-cell activator .
the second enhancer interact with two nuclear binding protein ( 85 kd and 27 kd mobility ) that appear to be require for optimal enhancer function and activation .
observation such a these encourage the speculation that there may be subtle difference in the regulation of hiv-1 and hiv-2 expression that may be relevant to the possible long latency and reduce pathogenicity of hiv-2 .
estrogen and progesterone receptor in vernal keratoconjunctivitis .
purpose : sex-related influence have be implicate in the pathogenesis of vernal keratoconjunctivitis ( vkc ) , an allergic eosinophilic disease .
method : the author evaluate tarsal and bulbar conjunctival biopsy from seven patient with severe and symptomatic vkc for the presence of estrogen and progesterone receptor by use monoclonal antibody with a peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique .
result : both the epithelium and subepithelium of the tarsal and bulbar conjunctiva of patient with vkc , but not those of four nonatopic control subject , show intense positive staining for estrogen and progesterone receptor .
immunofluorescence colocalization of both estrogen and progesterone receptor with eosinophil cationic protein show that approximately 70 % of positive cell be eosinophil .
conclusion : sexual hormone , through their receptor , may influence the activity of eosinophil in patient with vkc .
inhibition of transcription factor stat1 activity in mononuclear cell culture and t cell by the cyclic amp signaling pathway .
activation of t cell result in a cascade of gene activation and subsequent proliferation and differentiation into effector phenotype .
the regulation of transcription factor belong to the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) family be analyze in pha-activated mononuclear cell and in purify t cell activate by cross-linking cell surface cd3 .
cell activation result in a delay induction of stat dna-binding activity , which be sustained for several day , be compose predominantly of stat1 and stat3 , and be block by cycloheximide and actinomycin d .
increase stat1 and stat3 mrna and protein level be detect , respectively 4 and 24 h after activation .
stimulation of the camp signal transduction pathway , which skew cytokine production toward a th2 pattern , result in the preferential suppression of stat1 activity .
camp inhibit the induction of expression of il-2 receptor component , but do not inhibit il-4 receptor alpha-chain and cd69 expression or the induction of activator protein 1 transcription factor .
camp signaling inhibit stat1 at several different level , include suppression of dna binding and down-regulation of stat1 protein and mrna level .
our result demonstrate the regulation of stat activity by a signaling pathway that regulate the t cell functional phenotype and be distinct from the cytokine -activated janus kinase -stat signaling pathway .
fk506 and ciclosporin : molecular probe for study intracellular signal transduction .
the immunosuppressant ciclosporin and fk506 block the ca(2+)-dependent signal-transduction pathway emanate from the t-cell receptor , thereby inhibit the activation of helper t cell .
use these drug a probe , chemist and biologist have uncover several intracellular signalling molecule bridge the generation of second-messenger ca2+ ion and the transcriptional activation of il-2 , among which be calmodulin , calcineurin and the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) .
hence , ca2+ bind to calmodulin , lead to the binding of calmodulin to calcineurin ; the activate calcineurin , in turn , may dephosphorylate the cytoplasmic subunit of nf-at , result in it translocation from the cytoplasm into the nucleus to form a competent transcriptional activator .
a describe by jun liu , these drug manifest their effect in an unprecedented fashion .
they do not directly intercept intracellular signalling molecule .
instead , they form tight complex with two different class of abundant cytosolic receptor call immunophilins upon enter the cell , and consequently inhibit their peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerase activity .
the two structurally distinct immunophilin-drug complex bind to , and inhibit , the phosphatase activity of calcineurin .
chromosomal localization of two kox zinc finger gene on chromosome band 7q21-q22 .
human cdna encode kruppel-type zinc finger domain , designate kox 1-32 , have be clone from human t lymphocyte cell line library .
we report here the regional localization by in situ hybridization of kox 18 and kox 25 on chromosome band 7q21q22 .
pulse-field gel electrophoresis ( pfge ) analysis show that these gene be physically located within a dna fragment of 250 kb .
the gene kox 4 and kox 9 , map on chromosome 8q24 , be find to be located within a dna fragment of 450 kb .
from the present and previous data , eighteen different kox gene have be located at least two by two within nine dna fragment of 200 to 580 kb .
apoptosis signaling pathway in normal t cell : differential activity of bcl-2 and il-1beta -converting enzyme family protease inhibitor on glucocorticoid- and fas- mediated cytotoxicity .
fa -mediated apoptosis play an important role in regulate the immune response in peripheral t cell .
restimulation of t cell blast up-regulates fa and fa ligand expression , with subsequent interaction lead to cell death .
overexpression of bcl-2 in tumor cell block apoptosis induce by many stimulus , but inhibition of fa -mediated killing have not be consistently observe .
to examine the behavior of bcl-2 in normal cell , t cell blast be transiently transfected with bcl-2 and related gene product to determine the effect on apoptotic signaling .
transient overexpression of bcl-2 in mouse and human t cell blast do not block fa -mediated apoptosis , whereas etoposide- and glucocorticoid- induced cytotoxicity be potently inhibit .
expression of bcl-xl and adenovirus e1b 19k do not interfere with anti- fas killing .
in contrast , interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme family protease inhibitor ac-devd-cho and crma block fa -mediated apoptosis .
these result suggest that peripheral t cell use distinct apoptosis signaling pathway with differential sensitivity to bcl-2 and interleukin-1beta-converting enzyme family protease inhibitor .
since t cell normally express bcl-2 and bcl-xl follow activation , their inability to block fa -mediated apoptosis may allow for the elimination of self-reactive cell and the appropriate regulation of immune response .
hmg-i bind to gata motif : implication for an hpfh syndrome .
we have examine binding of the nuclear protein hmg-i to the human gamma-globin promoter .
we find that hmg-i bind preferentially to the more 3' of a pair of gata motif in the gamma-globin promoter ; this paired motif be bind by the erythroid factor gata-1 .
a naturally occur mutation ( -175 t-c ) in the area bind by hmg-i result in overexpression of gamma-globin in adult red blood cell ( hpfh ) and up-regulation of the gamma-globin promoter in in vitro expression assay ; hmg-i do not bind to this mutant sequence .
a survey of gata motif from other globin cis-elements demonstrate hmg-i binding to most of them .
these finding implicate hmg-i in the hpfh phenotype ; we speculate that it may participate in the formation of multiprotein complex that regulate globin gene expression .
nuclear nf-atp be a hallmark of unstimulated b cell from b-cll patient .
b lymphocyte from the peripheral blood of patient with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia ( cll ) be analyse for the nuclear presence and dna binding of a panel of transcription factor which be involve in the gene control of lymphoid cell .
the following transcription factor be study : the octamer factor oct-1 and oct-2 , member of the ap-1 factor family , nf-at factor , in particular nf-atp , and member of the rel/nf-kb family .
we show that the constitutive nuclear translocation of nf-atp , a member of the grow family of nf-at factor , be a hallmark of nonstimulated b cell from cll patient that distinguish b-cll cell from ' normal ' b lymphocyte .
constitutive nuclear appearance be also observe for nf-kb2/p52 .
constitutive binding of further factor protein to dna , such a jund , c-fos and fosb , be detect in several patient whereas the localisation and dna binding of other factor such a c-jun , rela/p65 and c-rel be unaltered .
it be remarkable that in b-cll cell the nuclear appearance and dna binding of specific transcription factor be dramatically affected whereas other member of the same factor family remain unaltered in these leukemic cell .
it remain to be show which molecular event lead to the specific ' pre-activation ' , i.e.
constitutive nuclear translocation and dna binding , of these member of nf-at , nf-kb and ap-1 factor family .
stimulation of human peripheral blood mononuclear cell by zinc and related cation .
zinc be an important trace element for immune function .
here , we show that zinc addition in a serum- and lipopolysaccharide-free cell culture system lead to significantly enhanced level of interleukin 1 beta ( il-1 beta ) and tumour necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and to expression of the corresponding mrna in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) .
structurally related divalent cation like cobalt , nickel , and mercury also partially increase monokine secretion but to a much low and thus insignificant extent .
they fail to induce mrna of tnf-alpha after 3 h of culture .
therefore , monokine induction be a zinc -specific effect influence by the physicochemical property of the ion .
confirmation of the unique significance of zinc for immune function provide a good understanding of the mechanism of specific zinc -mediated immune modulation .
the ad1 and ad2 transactivation domain of e2a be essential for the antiapoptotic activity of the chimeric oncoprotein e2a-hlf .
the chimeric oncoprotein e2a-hlf , generate by the t(17;19) chromosomal translocation in pro-b-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia , incorporate the transactivation domain of e2a and the basic leucine zipper ( bzip ) dna-binding and protein dimerization domain of hlf ( hepatic leukemic factor ) .
the ability of e2a-hlf to prolong the survival of interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) -dependent murine pro-b cell after il-3 withdrawal suggest that it disrupt signaling pathway normally responsible for cell suicide , allow the cell to accumulate a transform lymphoblast .
to determine the structural motif that contribute to this antiapoptotic effect , we construct a panel of e2a-hlf mutant and program their expression in il-3 -dependent murine pro-b cell ( fl5.12 line ) , use a zinc-inducible vector .
neither the e12 nor the e47 product of the e2a gene nor the wild-type hlf protein be able to protect the cell from apoptosis induce by il-3 deprivation .
surprisingly , different combination of disable mutation within the hlf bzip domain have little effect on the antiapoptotic property of the chimeric protein , so long a the amino-terminal portion of e2a remain intact .
in the context of a bzip domain defective in dna binding , mutant retain either of the two transactivation domain of e2a be able to extend cell survival after growth factor deprivation .
thus , the block of apoptosis impose by e2a-hlf in pro-b lymphocyte depend critically on the transactivating region of e2a .
since neither dna binding nor protein dimerization through the bzip domain of hlf be require for this effect , we propose mechanism whereby protein-protein interaction with the amino-terminal region of e2a allow the chimera to act a a transcriptional cofactor to alter the expression of gene regulate the apoptotic machinery in pro-b cell .
regulation of interleukin-1beta transcription by epstein-barr virus involve a number of latent protein via their interaction with rbp .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infect b cell , result in the outgrowth of immortalised lymphoblastoid cell line ( lcls ) .
here , we demonstrate through the use of intracellular staining that interleukin-1beta ( il-1beta ) be express in lcls and investigate the influence of the individual latent protein on the expression of il-1beta .
use rt-pcr , il-1beta be show to be up-regulated in ebv-transformed lcls as well a in group iii burkitt 's lymphoma ( bl ) cell line , compare with group i bl cell line .
the up-regulation of il-1beta message could be mediate by the latent membrane protein-1 , ebv nuclear protein 2 , 3 , 4 , and 6 gene .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsas ) demonstrate that the -300 region of the il-1beta promoter , which contain a nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) binding site , contain a functional rbp binding site .
binding of rbp to this site could be inhibit by addition of ebv nuclear protein 3 and 6 , suggest that these protein displace rbp from it recognition sequence , remove transcriptional repression and allow gene transcription to occur .
in group i bl cell , contain low level of nf-kappab , only rbp binding be observe in emsas , whereas nf-kappab binding could be demonstrate in ebv-transformed b cell line contain high level of activate nf-kappab .
in addition , the expression of latent membrane protein-1 lead to activation of nf-kappab that be capable of bind the il-1beta promoter .
the study demonstrate that ebv can up-regulate il-1beta expression , possibly by use rbp , nf-kappab , or both .
copyright 1998 academic press .
gamma-interferon -induced resistance to 1,25-(oh)2 d3 in human monocyte and macrophage : a mechanism for the hypercalcemia of various granulomatoses .
the hypercalcemia of various granulomatoses be cause by endogenous 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d [ 1,25-(oh)2d3 ] overproduction by disease-activated macrophage .
the inability of 1,25(oh)2d3 to suppress it synthesis in macrophage contrast with the tight control of it production in macrophage precursor , peripheral blood monocyte ( pbm ) .
we examine whether 1,25(oh)2d3 resistance develop a pbm differentiate to macrophage or with macrophage activation .
normal human pulmonary alveolar macrophage ( pam ) be less sensitive to 1,25(oh)2d3 than pbm , despite similar vitamin d receptor content ; however , both pbm and pam respond to exogenous 1,25-(oh)2d3 by inhibit 1,25(oh)2d3 synthesis and induce 1,25(oh)2d3 degradation through enhancement of 24-hydroxylase mrna level and activity .
the human monocytic cell line thp-1 mimic pam in 1,25(oh)2d3 synthesis and sensitivity to exogenous 1,25(oh)2d3 .
we utilize thp-1 cell to examine the response to 1,25(oh)2d3 with macrophage activation .
activation of thp-1 cell with gamma-interferon ( gamma-ifn ) enhance 1,25(oh)2d3 synthesis 30-fold , block 1,25-(oh)2d3 suppression of it synthesis , and reduce by 42.2 % 1,25-(oh)2d3 induction of it degradation .
the antagonistic effect of gamma-ifn be not merely restricted to enzymatic activity .
in thp-1 cell and in normal pbm , gamma-ifn inhibit 1,25-(oh)2d3 induction of 24-hydroxylase mrna level without reduce mrna stability , suggest gamma-ifn inhibition of 1,25(oh)2d3 transactivating function .
these result explain 1,25(oh)2d3 overproduction in granulomatoses and demonstrate potent inhibition by gamma-ifn of 1,25(oh)2d3 action in immune cell .
possible role of nuclear factor-kappa b activity in germline c epsilon transcription in a human burkitt lymphoma b cell line .
nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) play a broad role in gene regulation , but it be not evident whether nf-kappa b act a a messenger system for germline c epsilon transcription .
we report here that the signaling cascade trigger by interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) or anti- cd40 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) participate in nf-kappa b activation responsible for germline c epsilon transcription in a human burkitt lymphoma b cell line , dnd39 .
both il-4 and anti- cd40 mab induce activation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi3-kinase ) , translocation of a zeta isoform of protein kinase c , and nuclear expression of nf-kappa b .
all such event be abrogate by treatment with ly294002 , a specific inhibitor of pi3-kinase .
in addition , n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , a potent antioxidant , decrease nf-kappa b activation cause by il-4 , anti- cd40 mab , or their combination .
nac be also effective in diminish germline c epsilon transcription , and it potency be high in culture costimulated with il-4 and anti- cd40 mab than in those stimulate with il-4 alone .
these result indicate that il-4 and ligation of cd40 induce nf-kappa b expression via at least a mechanism dependent on the pi3-kinase pathway and suggest that nf-kappa b sensitive to nac may play a role in regulate germline c epsilon transcription .
ctl recognition of an altered peptide associate with asparagine bond rearrangement .
implication for immunity and vaccine design .
the extent to which peptide contain chemically and post-translationally modify amino acid side chain be recognize by primed ctl have not be clearly define .
we report on the ctl recognition of a mhc class i-restricted peptide contain a cyclized asparagine ( succinimide ) residue .
this modification of the asparagine side chain be a common intermediate structure during deamidation , isomerization , and bond rearrangement of amide-containing amino acid and also occur a a side reaction in peptide synthesis .
the ctl specifically recognize the succinimide-containing peptide show only weak cross-reactivity at high concentration of the parent peptide contain unmodified asparagine .
similarly , ctl raise against the parent peptide do not recognize the succinimide derivative of this peptide .
naturally process form of these structure be likely to occur give the importance and frequency of deamidation both in vitro and in vivo .
moreover , since succinimide intermediate of deamidated peptide can occasionally be very stable , these peptide have the potential to act a altered self-ags with significant implication for autoimmunity .
in addition , unwanted and potentially hazardous specificity may be elicit when use synthetic peptide in subunit vaccine in which succinimide residue may form spontaneously during storage or chemical synthesis .
t-lymphocytes from individual with filarial inflammatory disease have increase transendothelial migration in vitro .
the in vitro transendothelial migration of circulate filarial antigen-specific t-cells be examine in wuchereria banerofti infection .
circulate t-cells from individual with filaria-induced lymphatic pathology ( lp ) have significantly great migration through unstimulated huvec monolayers than do t-cells from asymptomatic infected ( mf ) individual ( p = 0.04 ) .
in contrast to the mf individual where no effect be see , transendothelial migration of 48-hr filarial antigen stimulated t-cells from lp individual be significantly ( p = 0.01 ) great than migration of 48-hr media-stimulated t-cells .
in six of seven patient examine , inhibition of the vla-4/ vcam-1 pathway result in great than 50 % inhibition of transendothelial migration of t-cells .
activation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer be not dependent on nfat-1 .
the function of a putative nfat-1 site in the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer have be analyze .
activation by the t-cell antigen receptor be minimal in jurkat cell and be mediate by the kappa b site .
the putative nfat-1 region be not require for the response to anti-cd3 or to mitogen in t-cell , b-cell , or monocyte/macrophage leukemia line , nor be it a cis-acting negative regulatory element .
oncogenic form of notch1 lack either the primary bind site for rbp-jkappa or nuclear localization sequence retain the ability to associate with rbp-jkappa and activate transcription .
truncated form of the notch1 transmembrane receptor engineer to resemble mutant form of notch1 find in certain case of human t cell leukemia/lymphoma ( t-all ) efficiently induce t-all when express in the bone marrow of mouse .
unlike full-sized notch1 , two such truncated form of the protein either lack a major portion of the extracellular domain ( deltae ) or consist only of the intracellular domain ( icn ) be find to activate transcription in culture cell , presumably through rbp-jkappa response element within dna .
both truncated form also bind to the transcription factor rbp-jkappa in extract prepare from human and murine t-all cell line .
transcriptional activation require the presence of a weak rbp-jkappa -binding site within the notch1 ankyrin repeat region of the intracellular domain .
unexpectedly , a second , strong rbp-jkappa -binding site , which lie within the intracellular domain close to the transmembrane region and significantly augment association with rbp-jkappa , be not need for oncogenesis or for transcriptional activation .
while icn appear primarily in the nucleus , deltae localize to cytoplasmic and nuclear membrane , suggest that intranuclear localization be not essential for oncogenesis or transcriptional activation .
in support of this interpretation , mutation of putative nuclear localization sequence decrease nuclear localization and increase transcriptional activation by membrane-bound deltae .
transcriptional activation by this mutant form of membrane-bound deltae be approximately equivalent to that produce by intranuclear icn .
these data be most consistent with notch1 oncogenesis and transcriptional activation be independent of association with rbp-jkappa at promoter site .
apoptosis mediate by hiv protease be precede by cleavage of bcl-2 .
expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv ) protease in culture cell lead to apoptosis , precede by cleavage of bcl-2 , a key negative regulator of cell death .
in contrast , a high level of bcl-2 protect cell in vitro and in vivo from the viral protease and prevent cell death follow hiv infection of human lymphocyte , while reduce the yield of viral structural protein , infectivity , and tumor necrosis factor alpha .
we present a model for hiv replication in which the viral protease deplete the infected cell of bcl-2 , lead to oxidative stress-dependent activation of nf kappa b , a cellular factor require for hiv transcription , and ultimately to cell death .
purify bcl-2 be cleave by hiv protease between phenylalanine 112 and alanine 113 .
the result suggest a new option for hiv gene therapy ; bcl-2 muteins that have noncleavable alteration surround the hiv protease cleavage site .
nuclear accumulation of nfat4 oppose by the jnk signal transduction pathway .
the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) group of transcription factor be retain in the cytoplasm of quiescent cell .
nfat activation be mediate in part by induce nuclear import .
this process require calcium -dependent dephosphorylation of nfat cause by the phosphatase calcineurin .
the c-jun amino-terminal kinase ( jnk ) phosphorylates nfat4 on two site .
mutational removal of the jnk phosphorylation site cause constitutive nuclear localization of nfat4 .
in contrast , jnk activation in calcineurin -stimulated cell cause nuclear exclusion of nfat4 .
these finding show that the nuclear accumulation of nfat4 promote by calcineurin be oppose by the jnk signal transduction pathway .
the human toll signaling pathway : divergence of nuclear factor kappab and jnk /sapk activation upstream of tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor 6 ( traf6 ) .
the human homologue of drosophila toll ( htoll ) be a recently clone receptor of the interleukin 1 receptor ( il-1r ) superfamily , and have be implicate in the activation of adaptive immunity .
signaling by htoll be show to occur through sequential recruitment of the adapter molecule myd88 and the il-1r-associated kinase .
tumor necrosis factor receptor-activated factor 6 ( traf6 ) and the nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) -inducing kinase ( nik ) be both involve in subsequent step of nf-kappab activation .
conversely , a dominant negative version of traf6 fail to block htoll -induced activation of stress-activated protein kinase/c-jun nh2-terminal kinase , thus suggest an early divergence of the two pathway .
atf1 and creb trans-activate a cell cycle regulated histone h4 gene at a distal nuclear matrix associated promoter element .
protein of the atf/ creb class of transcription factor stimulate gene expression of several cell growth-related gene through protein kinase a-related camp response element .
the promoter activity of cell cycle regulated histone h4 gene be regulate by at least four principal cis-acting element which mediate g1/s phase control and/or enhancement of transcription during the cell cycle .
use protein-dna interaction assay we show that the h4 promoter contain two atf/ creb recognition motif which interact with creb , atf1 , and atf2 but not with atf4/creb2 .
one atf/cre motif be located in the distal promoter at the nuclear matrix-associated site iv , and the second motif be present in the proximal promoter at site i .
both atf/cre motif overlap bind sequence for the multifunctional yy1 transcription factor , which have previously be show to be nuclear matrix associated .
subnuclear fractionation reveal that there be two atf1 isoforms which appear to differ with respect to dna binding activity and partition selectively between nuclear matrix and nonmatrix compartment , consistent with the role of the nuclear matrix in regulate gene expression .
site-directed mutational study demonstrate that site i and site iv together support atf1- and creb- induced trans-activation of the h4 promoter .
thus , our data establish that atf/creb factor functionally modulate histone h4 gene transcription at distal and proximal promoter element .
comparison of the transactivation domain of stat5 and stat6 in lymphoid cell and mammary epithelial cell .
stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) and jak ( janus kinase ) protein be central component in the signal transduction event in hematopoietic and epithelial cell .
they be rapidly activate by various cytokine , hormone , and growth factor .
upon ligand binding and cytokine receptor dimerization , stat protein be phosphorylated on tyrosine residue by jak kinase .
activate stat protein form homo- or heterodimers , translocate to the nucleus , and induce transcription from responsive gene .
stat5 and stat6 be transcription factor active in mammary epithelial cell and immune cell .
prolactin activate stat5 , and interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) activate stat6 .
both cytokine be able to stimulate cell proliferation , differentiation , and survival .
we investigate the transactivation potential of stat6 and find that it be not restricted to lymphocyte .
il-4 -dependent activation of stat6 be also observe in hc11 mammary epithelial cell .
in these cell , stat6 activation lead to the induction of the beta-casein gene promoter .
the induction of this promoter be confirm in cos7 cell .
the glucocorticoid receptor be able to far enhance il-4 -induced gene transcription through the action of stat6 .
deletion analysis of the carboxyl-terminal region of stat6 and recombination of this region with a heterologous dna binding domain allow the delimitation and characterization of the transactivation domain of stat6 .
the potency of the transactivation domain of stat5 , stat6 , and viral protein vp16 be compare .
stat6 have a transactivation domain which be about 10-fold strong than that of stat5 .
in pre-b cell ( ba/f3 ) , the transactivation domain of stat6 be il-4 regulated , independently from it dna binding function .
agonistic activity of a cd40-specific single-chain fv construct from the variable region of mab g28-5 .
a single-chain fv ( sfv ) be express from the variable region of the cd40-specific mab g28-5 .
the molecule bind cd40 with a high affinity ( 2.2 nm ) and be a monomer in solution .
surprisingly , g28-5 sfv be a potent cd40 agonist that rapidly crosslinked cd40 on the cell surface but do not crosslink cd40 -ig in solution .
g28-5 sfv be a more potent agonist than g28-5 igg and be able to stimulate cd40 response by b cell and monocyte .
g28-5 igg partially block , whereas g28-5 sfv augment cd40 response during stimulation with natural ligand ( gp39-cd8 fusion protein ) .
these result indicate that the functional activity of ligand build from the bind site of g28-5 be highly dependent upon the size and physical property of the molecule both in solution and on the cell surface .
four p-like element be require for optimal transcription of the mouse il-4 gene : involvement of a distinct set of nuclear factor of activate t cell and activator protein-1 family protein .
we previously identify the p sequence a a critical regulatory element of the human il-4 promoter .
in the mouse il-4 promoter , there be five element homologous to the human p sequence designate conserved lymphokine element 0 ( cle0 ) , p , p2 , p3 and p4 .
to characterize the role of these p -like element and their binding factor in the native promoter , we do transient transfection and electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) .
transfection of el-4 cell with the il-4 promoter-reporter construct carry mutate p -like element show that four p-like element , cle0 , p , p2 and p4 , but not p3 , be require for optimal activation of the il-4 promoter .
emsa show that both constitutive and inducible complex bind to cle0 , p , p2 and p4 , whereas only a constitutive complex bind to p3 .
in competition and antibody supershift assay in emsa , complex form with p or p2 prove to contain nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) family protein a major component .
activator protein ( ap ) -1 family protein interact with cle0 , p , p2 and p4 .
nfat/ap-1 complex form only with p and p2 .
cross-competition assay among the p-like element reveal element-specific and common complex .
six tandem repeat of the p element link to the sv40 promoter respond to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , while that of other element do not . it would thus appear that component of each p-like element-binding complex be not identical and may coordinately contribute to transcriptional activity .
class ii transactivator-independent endothelial cell mhc class ii gene activation induce by lymphocyte adhesion .
nk cell induce mhc class ii molecule on the surface of allogeneic endothelial cell in an adhesion-dependent , ifn-gamma -independent manner .
here , we demonstrate that nk cell induce hla-dr on the surface of a mutant cell line that be defective in ifn-gamma -induced mhc class ii expression .
rna analysis in these cell and in a cell line that be defective in class ii transactivator ( ciita ) demonstrate that nk cell-induced hla-dr alpha mrna expression be also ciita -independent .
the janus kinase-1-deficient cell line u4a express hla-dr alpha mrna in response to nk cell activation , and hla-dr alpha promoter construct transfected into these cell be induce by nk cell but not ifn-gamma .
these data indicate that the ifn-gamma -independent component of the target cell hla-dr expression induce by lymphocyte adhesion use a signaling pathway that be distinct from the ifn-gamma -dependent mechanism and also suggest that ciita be not require .
protein kinase c be not a downstream effector of p21ras in activate t cell .
the aim of this present study be to investigate the role of protein kinase c ( pkc ) , downstream of p21ras , in activate interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene expression .
it have be report that pkc be an effector of p21ras in t cell .
data be present , use the potent and selective pkc inhibitor ro 31-8425 and transient expression of a constitutively active ra mutant , which clearly show that pkc be not downstream of p21ras in the induction of nf-at and ap-1 transcriptional activity and in the expression of il-2 in human jurkat t cell .
reporter gene experiment demonstrate that nf-kappa b transcriptional activity be not affect by expression of activate p21ras .
the signaling pathway involve pkc activation , calcium mobilization and ra activation combine to provide the necessary component for production of il-2 during t cell activation .
nf-kappa b -dependent and -independent pathway of hiv activation in a chronically infected t cell line .
j delta k cell be isolate a a chronically infected survivor cell line , follow infection of jurkat cd4+ t cell with dl-nf , a mutate strain of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) contain a deletion of the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) nf-kappa b site .
j delta k cell exhibit very low level of constitutive hiv production .
hiv-1 expression be activate from j delta k cell by treatment with phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , sodium butyrate ( nab ) , or hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba ) , but not tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , confirm the role of nf-kappa b in mediate tnf-alpha induction of hiv transcription .
the strong induction of hiv expression by nab or hmba in j delta k cell clearly demonstrate the existence of nf-kappa b -independent mechanism of hiv activation in chronically infected cell .
j delta k cell may provide a useful model for characterize nf-kappa b -independent transcriptional activation of the hiv ltr .
shared gamma(c) subunit within the human interleukin-7 receptor complex .
a molecular basis for the pathogenesis of x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency .
genetic evidence suggest that mutation in the gamma(c) receptor subunit cause x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency ( x-scid ) .
the gamma(c) subunit can be employ in receptor complex for il -2 , -4 , -7 , -9 , and -15 , and the multiple signaling defect that would result from a defective gamma(c) chain in these receptor be propose to cause the severe phenotype of x-scid patient .
interestingly , gene disruption of either il-7 or the il-7 receptor ( il-7r ) alpha subunit in mouse lead to immunological defect that be similar to human x-scid .
these observation suggest the functional importance of gamma(c) in the il-7r complex .
in the present study , structure/function analysis of the il-7r complex use a chimeric receptor system demonstrate that gamma(c) be indeed critical for il-7r function .
nonetheless , only a limited portion of the cytoplasmic domain of gamma(c) be necessary for il-7r signal transduction .
furthermore , replacement of the gamma(c) cytoplasmic domain by a severely truncate erythropoeitin receptor do not affect measure il-7r signaling event .
these finding support a model in which gamma(c) serve primarily to activate signal transduction by the il-7r complex , while il-7r alpha determine specific signaling event through it association with cytoplasmic signaling molecule .
finally , these study be consistent with the hypothesis that the molecular pathogenesis of x-scid be due primarily to gamma(c) -mediated defect in the il-7 /il-7r system
an irf-1 -dependent pathway of dna damage-induced apoptosis in mitogen-activated t lymphocyte .
lymphocyte be particularly susceptible to dna damage-induced apoptosis , a response which may serve a a form of ' altruistic suicide ' to counter their intrinsic high potential for mutation and clonal expansion .
the tumour suppressor p53 have be show to regulate this type of apoptosis in thymocytes , but an as yet unknown , p53 -independent pathway ( s ) appear to mediate the same event in mitogen-activated mature t lymphocyte .
here we show dna damage-induced apoptosis in these t lymphocyte be dependent on the antioncogenic transcription factor interferon regulatory factor ( irf ) -1 .
thus two different anti-onco-genic transcription factor , p53 and irf-1 , be require for distinct apoptotic pathway in t lymphocyte .
we also show that mitogen induction of the interleukin-1 beta converting enzyme ( ice ) gene , a mammalian homologue of the caenorhabditis elegans cell death gene ced-3 , be irf-1 -dependent .
ectopic overexpression of irf-1 result in the activation of the endogenous gene for ice and enhance the sensitivity of cell to radiation-induced apoptosis .
upregulation of bcl-2 by the epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein lmp1 : a b-cell-specific response that be delay relative to nf-kappa b activation and to induction of cell surface marker .
an ability of the epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein lmp1 to enhance the survival of infected b cell through upregulation of the bcl-2 oncogene be first suggest by experiment involve gene transfection and the selection of stable lmp1 + clone ( s.henderson , m. rowe , c.gregory , f.wang , e.kieff , and a.rickinson , cell 65 : 1107-1115 , 1991 ) .
however , it be not possible to ascertain whether bcl-2 upregulation be a specific consequence of lmp1 expression or an artifact of the selection procedure whereby rare bcl-2 + cell already present in the start population might best be able to tolerate the potentially toxic effect of lmp1 .
we therefore reexamine this issue by use two different experimental approach that allow lmp1 -induced effect to be monitor immediately follow expression of the viral protein and in the absence of selective pressure ; activation of the nf-kappa b transcription factor and upregulation of the cell adhesion molecule icam-1 be use a early index of lmp1 function .
in the first approach , stable clone of two b-cell line carry an lmp1 gene under the control of an inducible metallothionein promoter be induce to express lmp1 in all cell .
activation of nk-kappa b and upregulation of icam-1 occur within 24 h and be follow at 48 to 72 h by upregulation of bcl-2 .
in the second approach , we test the generality of this phenomenon by transiently express lmp1 from a strong constitutively active promoter in a range of different cell type .
all six b-cell line test show nf-kappa b activation in response to lmp1 expression , and this be follow in five of six line by expression of icam-1 and bcl-2 .
in the same experiment , all three non- b-cell line show nf-kappa b activation and icam-1 upregulation but never any effect upon bcl-2 .
we therefore conclude that bcl-2 upregulation be part of the panoply of cellular change induce by lmp1 but that the effect be cell type specific .
our data also suggest that whilst nf-kappa b may be an essential component of lmp1 signal transduction , other cell-specific factor may be require to effect some function of the viral protein .
ra oncogene transformation of human b lymphoblast be associate with lymphocyte activation and with a block of differentiation .
the p21ras small gtp binding protein participate in signal transduction from cell surface receptor and affect neoplastic transformation and development in many different cell type .
in the present study , we examine the relationship between ra transformation and differentiation of human b lymphocyte .
we show that the constitutive expression of the t24 ha-ras oncogene in ebv-immortalized b lymphoblast be associate with the induction of the interleukin 2 receptor alpha subunit , with an impaired immunoglobulin gene expression , altered adhesion property and increase survival in serum-free medium .
since induction of the il-2 receptor alpha subunit be a hallmark of lymphocyte activation , we suggest that p21ras naturally trigger b cell activation .
the ras-transformed lymphocyte display a fully functional il-2r , a assess by c-fos induction follow treatment with il-2 ; nevertheless , they be not growth stimulate by this lymphokine .
the decrease expression of immunoglobulin gene indicate that the ra oncogene block terminal differentiation to plasma cell , possibly by inhibit the activity of lymphocyte-specific transcription factor .
somewhat unexpectedly , the constitutive p21ras activity do not cause an increase dna binding of transcription factor pea1 ( ap1 ) , pea3 , oct-2 or nf-kb
activation of signaling pathway and prevention of apoptosis by cytokine in eosinophil .
inhibition of apoptosis in eosinophil by cytokine such a il-5 and gm-csf may play an important role in the pathogenesis of allergic and parasitic disorder .
recently , there have be some progress in the understanding of the signal transduction pathway activate by these cytokine in eosinophil .
the il-3 , il-5 and gm-csf receptor share a common signal transducer that possess no intrinsic kinase domain .
it have be show that eosinophil stimulation by these cytokine be associate with increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of several cellular substrate .
in the past few year , there have be some progress in define the tyrosine kinase that be activate by the il-3 / il-5 / gm-csf receptor beta-subunit in eosinophil .
this review will concentrate on this topic and on it role for the regulation of eosinophil apoptosis .
platelet-activating factor stimulate transcription of the heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor in monocyte .
correlation with an increase kappa b binding activity .
human peripheral blood monocyte respond to stimulation of platelet-activating factor ( paf ) with up-regulation of the transcript for heparin-binding epidermal growth factor-like growth factor ( hb-egf ) , a potent mitogen for vascular smooth muscle cell .
this function of paf be observe at nanomolar concentration of the ligand , start at 30 min after stimulation .
the paf -induced up-regulation of hb-egf mrna be accompany by an increase in kappa b binding activity .
these function of paf appear to be mediate through the cell surface paf receptor , a two paf receptor antagonist , web 2086 and l-659 , 989 , block both the up-regulation of hb-egf mrna and kappa b binding activity induce by paf .
the antagonist , however , have no effect on phorbol ester -induced up-regulation of hb-egf mrna and kappa b binding activity .
pretreatment of monocyte with pertussis toxin inhibit these function of paf , whereas cholera toxin have no inhibitory effect .
pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate , an inhibitor for nf-kappa b activation , markedly reduce paf -stimulated kappa b binding activity as well a up-regulation of hb-egf mrna .
these result suggest a potential role of paf in hb-egf expression and provide evidence that this stimulation may occur through increase kappa b binding activity .
glucocorticoid -mediated inhibition of rantes expression in human t lymphocyte .
the chemokine rantes have be implicate in the pathogenesis of allergic inflammatory disease include asthma and rhinitis which be frequently treat with glucocorticoid .
we observe that dexamethasone dramatically inhibit rantes mrna expression dose dependently in anti-cd3 activated hut-78 t cell and human pbmcs .
inhibition of rantes expression do not appear to be secondary to il-2 inhibition and require bind to the intracellular glucocorticoid receptor .
the down-regulation of rantes expression by glucocorticoid in t cell may directly contribute to the efficacy of these agent in suppress cellular infiltration and to their anti-inflammatory property .
regulation of the nuclear factor of activate t cell in stably transfected jurkat cell clone .
two jurkat cell clone have be stably transfected with a reporter vector for the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) .
upon stimulation , they express high level of secrete heat stable placental alkaline phosphatase .
with these clone , we demonstrate that nfat activation induce by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin be inhibit by both cyclosporin a ( csa ) ( ic50 = 8 nm ) and fk506 ( ic50 = 160 pm ) , presumably by inhibition of calcineurin activity .
selective phosphatase inhibitor for protein phosphatase 1 ( pp1 ) and 2a ( pp2a ) that do not inhibit calcineurin , such a okadaic acid and calyculin a , also inhibit nfat activation with ic50s of 87 nm and 4 nm , respectively , suggest that okadaic acid and related inhibitor may block nfat activation through the inhibition of pp1 , instead of pp2a .
nfat activation be also inhibit by agent that increase camp concentration such a dibutyryl camp , forskolin and prostaglandin e2 .
these stable jurkat cell clone provide a convenient and sensitive tool to study nfat regulation .
an erythroid specific enhancer upstream to the gene encode the cell-type specific transcription factor gata-1 .
the transcription factor gata-1 be express in a subset of hemopoietic cell , where it mediate the cell-type specific expression of several gene .
we have clone the mouse and human gata-1 gene .
a region upstream to the first exon , and highly conserve between mouse and man , act a an erythroid specific enhancer in transient assay , if link to the gata-1 or to the sv40 promoter .
the activity of the enhancer be almost completely dependent on the integrity of a dimeric gata-1 binding site .
il-4 -dependent regulation of tgf-alpha and tgf-beta1 expression in human eosinophil .
tgfs play important role in wound healing and carcinogenesis .
we have previously demonstrate that eosinophil infiltrate into different pathologic process elaborate tgf-alpha and tgf-beta1 .
eosinophil infiltrate hamster cutaneous wound be find to express tgfs sequentially .
in this study , we examine the biologic mediator that may regulate the expression of tgf -alpha and -beta1 by eosinophil .
eosinophil be isolate from the peripheral blood of healthy donor and culture in the absence or presence of il-3 , il-4 , and il-5 .
cell be analyze by in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry .
supernatant from these culture be assay for secrete tgf-alpha and tgf-beta1 use tgf -specific elisa .
il-3 , il-4 , and il-5 independently up-regulated tgf-beta1 mrna and product expression by eosinophil in all donor .
interestingly , tgf-alpha production by eosinophil be up-regulated by il-3 and il-5 but be down-regulated by il-4 .
consistent with the ability of il-4 to regulate eosinophil response , il-4 signaling molecule be present in human eosinophil .
the observation that il-4 can differentially regulate the expression of tgf-alpha and tgf-beta1 suggest that il-4 may serve a a physiologic molecular switch of tgf expression by the infiltrate eosinophil in wound healing and carcinogenesis .
the class ii trans-activator ciita interact with the tbp-associated factor tafii32 .
the class ii trans-_activator ( ciita ) be the main transcriptional co-activator for the expression of mhc class ii protein .
it n-terminal 125 amino acid function a an independent transcriptional activation domain .
analysis of the primary amino acid sequence of the activation domain predict the presence of three alpha-helices , each with a high proportion of acidic residue .
use site-directed mutagenesis , we find that two of these predict alpha-helices be require for full transcriptional activation by ciita .
moreover , a ciita protein in which both functional alpha-helices have be delete display a dominant negative phenotype .
this activation domain of ciita interact with the 32 kda subunit of the general transcription complex tfiid , tafii32 .
decrease transcriptional activation by n-terminal deletion of ciita be correlate directly with their reduce binding to tafii32 .
we conclude that interaction between tafii32 and ciita be responsible for activation of class ii gene .
limited proteolysis for assay ligand binding affinity of nuclear receptor .
the binding of natural or synthetic ligand to nuclear receptor be the trigger event lead to gene transcription activation or repression .
ligand bind to the ligand binding domain of these receptor induce conformational change that be evidence by an increase resistance of this domain to protease .
in vitro label receptor be incubate with various synthetic or natural agonist or antagonist and submit to trypsin digestion .
proteolysis product be separate by sds-page and quantify .
the amount of trypsin -resistant fragment be proportional to receptor occupancy by the ligand , and allow the determination of dissociation constant ( kda ) .
use the wild-type or mutate human retinoic acid receptor alpha a a model , kda value determine by classical competition binding assay use tritiated ligand be in agreement with those measure by the proteolytic assay .
this method be successfully extend to human retinoic x receptor alpha , glucocorticoid receptor , and progesterone receptor , thus provide a basis for a new , fast assay to determine simultaneously the affinity and conformation of receptor when bind to a given ligand .
demonstration of a 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 -responsive protein in human lymphocyte : immunologic crossreactivity and inverse regulation with the vitamin d receptor .
use western blot analysis with a monoclonal antibody recognize a 17-amino acid epitope of the 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25(oh)2d3 ] receptor , we have detect two crossreacting protein in activate normal human lymphocyte .
the small of the two protein ( 50 kda ) be indistinguishable from the classical 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor and , similar to the classical 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor , be upregulated in a dose-dependent fashion by 1,25(oh)2d3 .
the large crossreacting protein exhibit an electrophoretic mobility of 80 kda , be localized in the cell cytosol , and appear to be specific for activate lymphocyte since it be not detect in several other human cell include monocyte .
more strikingly , the 80-kda protein be downregulated in a dose-dependent fashion by 1,25(oh)2d3 ; this effect be independent of the mode of lymphocyte activation and specific for the 1,25(oh)2d3 metabolite of vitamin d3 .
however , two potent immunosuppressive agent , glucocorticoid and cyclosporin a , also inhibit the 80-kda protein .
nonradioactive quantification of glucocorticoid receptor expression during differentiation of human monocytic cell ( u937 ) .
we describe a method for relative quantification of specific mrna use a nonradioactive assay base on dna strand competition between identical sequence of biotin- and fluorescein-labeled amplicon ( probe ) and unlabeled amplicon ( target ) during hybridization .
a the target quantity increase , that of the double-labeled probe decrease in accordance with the mass action law .
this technique be successfully apply to evaluate difference in glucocorticoid receptor expression in u937 cell before and after the addition of potent differentiation inducer : 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( tpa ) and a combination of all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) and 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d2 ( vd ) .
we observe that tpa treatment be associate with an increase in specific binding of [3h]dexamethasone and up-regulation of gr mrna while no enhance gr expression be perceive with ra /vd treatment .
gene that regulate interleukin-4 expression in t cell .
interleukin-4 be an immunomodulatory cytokine which play a central role in the regulation of allergic and atopic immune response .
significant progress have be make in gain a detailed understanding of the transcriptional regulation of the interleukin-4 gene .
the recent identification and characterization of several key transcription factor have help to elucidate the molecular mechanism of t helper cell cytokine gene expression .
regulation of the bzlf1 promoter of epstein-barr virus by second messenger in anti-immunoglobulin-treated b cell .
initiation of the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) lytic cycle be dependent on the transcription of the bzlf1 gene .
the bzlf1 gene promoter ( zp ) be activate by crosslinking of cell surface immunoglobulin ( ig ) with anti-ig antibody in b cell , even in the absence of other viral gene .
we identify several anti-ig response element within zp , which be originally define a 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) response element ( zi repeat and zii , an ap-1-like domain ) .
since anti-ig crosslinking lead to activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) and an increase in intracellular calcium level , zp be test for the response to these cellular factor .
treatment with calcium ionophore a23187 increase zp activity .
when the calcium ionophore be use in conjunction with tpa , a pkc activator , the zp induction be synergistically enhance .
1-(5-isoquinolinyl_sulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine , an inhibitor of pkc , inhibit the anti-ig inducibility of zp .
calmodulin antagonist , compound r24571 and trifluoperazine , block the zp activation with anti-ig .
these finding suggest that zp respond directly to change in the activity of both pkc and calcium /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase .
requirement of tyrosine kinase activation for the anti-ig -mediated zp activation be also demonstrate through the use of the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin .
these cellular gene regulatory molecule induce with anti-ig may cooperatively play an important part in achieve efficient ebv activation a see with anti-ig treatment in b cell .
lipopolysaccharide induction of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter in human monocytic cell .
regulation by egr-1 , c-jun , and nf-kappab transcription factor .
biosynthesis of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) be predominantly by cell of the monocytic lineage .
this study examine the role of various cis-acting regulatory element in the lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) induction of the human tnf-alpha promoter in cell of monocytic lineage .
functional analysis of monocytic thp-1 cell transfected with plasmid contain various length of tnf-alpha promoter localize enhancer element in a region ( -182 to -37 base pair ( bp ) ) that be require for optimal transcription of the tnf-alpha gene in response to lp .
two region be identify : region i ( -182 to -162 bp ) contain an overlap sp1/ egr-1 site , and region ii ( -119 to -88 ) contain cre and nf-kappab ( designate kappab3 ) site .
in unstimulated thp-1 , cre -binding protein and , to a less extent , c-jun complex be find to bind to the cre site .
lp stimulation increase the binding of c-jun -containing complex .
in addition , lp stimulation induce the binding of cognate nuclear factor to the egr-1 and kappab3 site , which be identify a egr-1 and p50/p65 , respectively .
the cre and kappab3 site in region ii together confer strong lp responsiveness to a heterologous promoter , whereas individually they fail to provide transcriptional activation .
furthermore , increase the spacing between the cre and the kappab3 site completely abolish lp induction , suggest a cooperative interaction between c-jun complex and p50/p65 .
these study indicate that maximal lp induction of the tnf-alpha promoter be mediate by concert participation of at least two separate cis-acting regulatory element .
t cell response to epstein-barr virus transactivators in chronic rheumatoid arthritis .
rheumatoid arthritis be a multistep disorder associate with autoimmune feature of yet unknown etiology .
implication of virus such a epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) in rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis have be suspect on the basis of several indirect observation , but thus far , a direct link between ebv and rheumatoid arthritis have not be provide .
here we show that a large fraction of t cell infiltrate affect joint from a patient with chronic rheumatoid arthritis recognize two ebv transactivators ( bzlf1 and bmlf1 ) in a major histocompatibility complex -restricted fashion .
response to these ebv antigen by synovial lymphocyte from several other chronic rheumatoid arthritis patient be readily detectable .
thus these result suggest a direct contribution of ebv to chronic rheumatoid arthritis pathogenesis .
they also demonstrate for the first time the occurrence of t cell response against ebv transactivating factor , which might be central in the control of virus reactivation .
cholecystokininb receptor from human jurkat lymphoblastic t cell be involve in activator protein-1 -responsive gene activation .
the aim of this study be to analyze the role of cholecystokinin ( cck(b) ) receptor in human lymphoblastic jurkat t cell .
we investigate the trophic effect result from activation of such a receptor by use the reporter gene strategy .
for this purpose , we transiently transfected jurkat t cell with the reporter plasmid p [(tre)3-tk-luc] and find that cck-8 be able to dose-dependently induce luciferase expression related to activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) activation with a maximal response identical to that obtain with compound know to activate ap-1 complex ( quantitatively , the same level of induction be obtain with 1 nm 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate , 100 microm diacylglycerol , or 4 nm epidermal growth factor ) .
the involvement of the cck(b) receptor in such a stimulation be demonstrate by the inhibiting effect of the selective cck(b) receptor antagonist pd-135,158 .
this effect be confirm in cos-7 cell transfected with the cdna of cck(b) receptor clone from jurkat t cell .
to well understand the ap-1 -dependent luciferase expression in jurkat t cell , we test two specific inhibitor of serine/threonine phosphatase -1 and -2a : okadaic acid and calyculin a .
these compound strongly increase the phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate response , whereas we have not observe a contribution of phosphatase inhibitor on a cck-8 -induced luciferase activity .
to confirm that cck(b) receptor be involve in ap-1 response , we investigate the cck-8 effect on interleukin-2 expression , a natural endogenous gene regulate by several factor , include ap-1 .
in jurkat t cell activate by phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate and phytohemagglutinin , cck-8 induce il-2 expression .
this induction be abolish by pd-135,158 .
our result indicate that cck-8 exert a trophic effect in jurkat t cell through stimulation of cck(b) receptor by modulation of expression of ap-1 -regulated gene .
uncoupling of cell cycle arrest from the expression of monocytic differentiation marker in hl60 cell variant .
differentiation generally lead to cell cycle arrest .
human leukemia hl60 cell respond to the presence of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1,25d3 ) by express a number of marker of the monocyte/macrophage phenotype and become arrest predominantly in the g1 phase of the cell cycle .
we have recently report a series ( a ) of 1,25d3 -resistant variant of hl60 cell which proliferate in the presence of 1,25d3 and do not express differentiation marker ( exp. cell res. 224 , 312 , 1996 ) .
we now describe another series ( b ) of such variant , which differ from a series cell grow in similar concentration of 1,25d3 in that they express the cd14 antigen and nonspecific esterase , characteristic of the monocyte , while continue to proliferate and they develop hypotetraploid dna ( 4c ) content at high concentration of ambient 1,25d3 than the a series cell .
cell in the b series with 4c dna content ( 100b and 200b ) also differ from the a series 4c cell by the absence of dna binding by the full-length sp1 transcription factor .
however , b series cell resemble the a series cell in exhibit fast growth rate than the parental hl60 cell and show high level of vitamin d receptor and retinoid receptor x protein .
these result show that the initial step in the 1,25d3 signaling pathway be intact in b series resistant cell and lead to the appearance of early marker of monocytic differentiation .
however , the progression to subsequent event which comprise terminal differentiation and cell cycle arrest be halt during the adaptation to the presence of 1,25d3 in these cell .
thus , the availability of these variant cell should provide a system for study the link between differentiation and cell cycle arrest .
an allosteric drug , o,o'-bismyristoyl thiamine disulfide , suppress hiv-1 replication through prevention of nuclear translocation of both hiv-1 tat and nf-kappa b .
the efficacy of o , o'-bismyristoyl thiamine disulfide ( bmt ) be examine in detail against hiv-1 laboratory isolates ( htlv-iiib , jrfl , and mn ) , primary isolates ( kmt and kmo ) , and simian immunodeficiency virus ( sivmac251 ) in vitro .
bmt inhibit the replication of hiv-1 in both laboratory and primary isolates in vitro .
in addition , bmt exhibit antiviral activity against sivmac251 .
minimize energy study of bmt structure reveal that a trans-disulfide of thiamine ( holo drug ) disulfide ( tds , protodrug ) be allosterically transit to the reactive twisted disulfide of bmt ( allo drug ) by o , o'-bismyristoyl esterification of tds .
bmt inhibit nuclear translocation of both hiv-1 transactivator ( tat ) and the cellular transcriptional nuclear factor-kb ( nf-kappa b ) , result in the suppression of hiv-1 replication .
correlation of differentiation-inducing activity of retinoids on human leukemia cell line hl-60 and nb4 .
retinoids , include all-trans-retinoic acid , it isomer , and fifty synthetic retinoids ( retinobenzoic acid ) , be test for differentiation-inducing activity on human leukemia cell line hl-60 and nb4 .
a good linear correlation , with an r value of 0.91 , between the ed50 value for the differentiation-inducing activity towards hl-60 cell and that towards nb4 cell be find .
isolation of a b-cell-specific promoter for the human class ii transactivator .
the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) be essential for the expression of major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii antigen .
the tissular pattern of ciita and mhc class ii gene expression be tightly correlate : ciita mrna be highly express in b cell , and be induce by interferon gamma ( ifn-gamma ) in macrophage and epithelial cell line .
we first isolate two overlap cosmid encode human ciita which , when co-transfected , be able to restore mhc class ii expression in a b-lymphoblastoid cell line ( b-lcl ) defective for ciita .
subsequently , a 1.8 kilobase ( kb ) fragment of the ciita promoter be isolate and sequence .
a motif present a strong similarity to an initiator be detect , as well a putative bind site for sp1 , gata-2 , lyf-1 , ets-1 , ap1 , and mzf1 transcription factor , and two gas motif .
when introduce in front of a luciferase reporter gene , this promoter be able to direct a high luciferase activity in a human b-lcl .
in contrast , luciferase expression be not stimulate after ifn-gamma treatment when the construct be transfected in macrophage or in epithelial cell line .
however , an induction of the human ciita gene be observe in mouse macrophage and fibrosarcoma cell line , when the cell be transfected with a cosmid contain the human ciita gene , but lack the 1.8 kb promoter describe above .
take together , these data suggest the existence of an intragenic promoter drive an ifn-gamma -inducible expression of ciita .
hiv-1 vpr suppress immune activation and apoptosis through regulation of nuclear factor kappa b [ see comment ]
the hiv-1 accessory gene product vpr can influence viral pathogenesis by affect viral replication as well a host cell transcription and proliferation .
we have investigate the effect of vpr on host cell activation and confirm that it influence cellular proliferation .
however , we have also find that vpr modulate t-cell receptor ( tcr ) -triggered apoptosis in a manner similar to that of glucocorticoid .
in the absence of tcr -mediated activation , vpr induce apoptosis whereas in it presence , vpr interrupt the expect induction of apoptosis .
this regulation of apoptosis be link to vpr suppression of nf-kappa b activity via the induction of i kappa b , an inhibitor of nf-kappa b .
far , vpr suppress expression of il-2 , il-10 , il-12 , tnf alpha and il-4 , all of which be nf-kappa b -dependent .
the effect of vpr could be reverse by ru486 .
our finding that vpr can regulate nf-kappa b support the hypothesis that some aspect of viral pathogenesis be the consequence of cell dysregulation by vpr .
the human prointerleukin 1 beta gene require dna sequence both proximal and distal to the transcription start site for tissue-specific induction .
in these study , we have identify dna sequence and specific protein interaction necessary for transcriptional regulation of the human prointerleukin 1 beta ( proil-1 beta ) gene .
a cell-type-independent lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -responsive enhancer element located between -3757 and -2729 bp upstream from the transcription start site ( cap site ) consist of at least six discrete subregions which be essential to the maximal induction by lp in transfected monocyte .
the enhancer also appear to mediate phorbol myristate acetate induction in monocyte and il-1 responsiveness in fibroblast .
deletion and base substitution mutation along with dna binding study demonstrate that the enhancer contain a minimum of three functional protein binding sequence , two of which appear to be important for gene induction .
one of the essential protein which bind to the enhancer be similar or identical to member of the c/ebp family of transcription factor require for both il-1 - and lp -specific induction of the il-6 gene ( i.e. , the nf-il6 protein ) .
when ligate to the proil-1 beta cap site -proximal region ( located between -131 to +12 ) , both the proil-1 beta and the simian virus 40 enhancer element function more efficiently in monocyte than in hela cell , which be not normally competent for il-1 beta expression .
when ligate to the murine c-fos promoter , however , the proil-1 beta enhancer be inducible in phorbol myristate acetate -stimulated hela cell , suggest the existence of a proil-1 beta promoter-proximal requirement for tissue specificity .
expression and genomic configuration of gm-csf , il-3 , m-csf receptor ( c-fms ) , early growth response gene-1 ( egr-1 ) and m-csf gene in primary myelodysplastic syndrome .
peripheral blood mononuclear cell from seventeen patient with primary myelodysplastic syndrome ( md ) in advanced stage be enriched for blast and test for ( 1 ) karyotype , ( 2 ) genomic configuration and ( 3 ) expression of il-3 , gm-csf , fm and egr-1 gene which be all located on the long arm of chromosome 5 .
the expression of the m-csf gene , that have be recently reassign to the short arm of chromosome 1 ( lp ) , be also investigate .
aim of the study be to ( 1 ) assess the potential role of the expression of these gene in the maintenance and expansion of the neoplastic clone and ( 2 ) search for constitutional loss or rearrangement of one allele follow by a deletion of the second allele of the same gene in the leukemic cell .
the latter issue be investigate by compare , in 8 case , constitutive dna from skin fibroblast with leukemic dna .
eleven of the 17 patient have abnormal karyotype .
the m-csf gene be express in 6 case and the fm and the egr-1 gene be express in 2 of the latter case .
an autocrine mechanism of growth could be hypothesize only for the 2 patient whose cell express both the m-csf and fm gene .
no germline change or rearrangement be observe in any of the gene study .
thus , deregulation of gene encode for certain hemopoietic growth factor or receptor do not seem to represent a major mechanism of md progression .
inhibition of t cell activation by the extracellular matrix protein tenascin .
tenascin ( tn ) be an extracellular matrix protein that be express widely in the fetus and sparingly in the adult , but reappear at high level in certain area of tissue insult such a tumor matrix and site of wound healing .
we show here that soluble tn inhibit proliferation of human t cell in response to alpha cd3 ab co- immobilize with the extracellular matrix protein fibronectin ( fn ) .
tn also inhibit proliferation drive by alpha cd3 /il-2 or by phorbol ester/il-2 , and it prevent high level induction of il-2r .
the presence of tn in culture medium do not detectably alter the pattern of tyrosine phosphorylation result from t cell trigger with alpha cd3 , but at late time point prevent the appearance of functional nf-at1 transcription factor complex in t cell nuclear extract .
these finding be consistent with the postulate role for tn a a natural antagonist to fn action , and suggest that t cell response occur at tissue site in which tn be express could be influence by it presence .
functional interaction between the two zinc finger domain of the v-erb a oncoprotein .
the v-erb a oncogene of avian erythroblastosis virus be a mutate and virally transduce copy of a host cell gene encode a thyroid hormone receptor .
the protein express by the v-erb a oncogene bind to dna and act a a dominant negative inhibitor of both the thyroid hormone receptor and the closely related retinoic acid receptor .
the v-erb a protein have sustain two amino acid alteration within it dna-binding domain relative to that of c-erb a , one of which , at serine 61 , be know to be important for v-erb a function in the neoplastic cell .
we report here that the second alteration , at threonine 78 , also play an important , although more indirect , role : alteration of the sequence at threonine 78 such that it resemble that of c-erb a can act a an intragenic suppressor and can partially restore function to a v-erb a protein render defective due to a mutation at position 61 .
threonine 78 lie within the d-box of the v-erb a protein , a region think to mediate receptor-receptor dimerizations , and be not in physical proximity to the serine at position 61 .
it therefore appear that an indirect interaction occur between these two site and that this interaction be crucial for v-erb a function .
t cell from renal cell carcinoma patient exhibit an abnormal pattern of kappa b-specific dna-binding activity : a preliminary report .
recent data suggest that the poor induction of a t-cell response to human renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) may be related to alteration in signal transduction pathway .
we report that t cell from rcc patient have two alteration in kappa b motif -specific dna-binding activity .
the first alteration involve the constitutive expression of substantial kappa b-binding activity in nuclear extract , which be observe in the electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
the magnitude of kappa b activity in unstimulated patient t cell be similar to that observe in t cell from normal individual that have be activate in vitro .
on the basis of western blotting experiment use antibody to kappa b/rel family protein , the kappa b-binding activity constitutively express in t cell from rcc patient be compose mostly of the nf-kappa b1 ( p50 ) subunit .
the second abnormality in kappa b-binding activity in t cell from these patient be that rela , a member of the rel homology family which be part of the normal nf-kappa b complex , be not induce in the nucleus follow activation .
western blotting analysis do not detect any rela in nuclear extract either before or after stimulation of t cell .
the altered kappa b-binding activity in t cell from rcc patient may impair their capacity to respond normally to various stimulus .
[ endocrine status change in child with bronchial asthma ]
a study be make of adrenocortical function by measure blood plasma cortisol concentration and amount of glucocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte as well a thyroid function by measure blood plasma triidothyronine and thyroxine concentration in 58 bronchial asthma child aged 1 to 14 year .
the author reveal alteration in the functional activity of the indicate endocrine gland depend on the intensity of bronchial patency disorder and the nature of the therapeutic measure carry out .
a conserve motif in the promoter of several cytokine express by human th2-type lymphocyte .
we have recently find a novel conserve motif in the promoter of several t-cell-expressed cytokine [ human interleukin -2 , -4 , -5 and -13 and human and mouse granulocyte/macrophage-colony stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) ] .
it contain a core sequence cttgg ... ccaag which be present a part of large palindromic sequence in each gene .
this suggest that they may interact with a new family of trans-acting factor .
in transfection assay , the human gm-csf element have a strong positive effect on the expression of a reporter gene by the human t cell line jurkat j6 upon stimulation .
in dna mobility shift assay , this sequence can give either six different specific band which be compete out by different part of the sequence or one specific band which be compete out by each of the invert repeat , depend on the reconstitution condition .
in different gene , the core sequence be separate by integer number of helical turn .
consider the strong positive regulatory effect of this element and it presence in several t-cell-expressed cytokine gene , it may be crucial to the coordinate expression of these cytokine in t helper cell .
transcriptional repression of the interleukin-2 gene by vitamin d3 : direct inhibition of nfatp /ap-1 complex formation by a nuclear hormone receptor .
t- lymphocyte proliferation be suppress by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25(oh)2d3 ] , the active metabolite of vitamin d3 , and be associate with a decrease in interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) , gamma interferon , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor mrna level .
we report here that 1,25(oh)2d3 -mediated repression in jurkat cell be cycloheximide resistant , suggest that it be a direct transcriptional repressive effect on il-2 expression by the vitamin d3 receptor ( vdr ) .
we therefore examine vitamin d3 -mediated repression of activate il-2 expression by cotransfecting jurkat cell with il-2 promoter /reporter construct and a vdr overexpression vector and by dna binding .
we delineate an element confer both dna binding by the receptor in vitro and 1,25(oh)2d3 -mediated repression in vivo to a short 40-bp region encompass an important positive regulatory element , nf-at-1 , which be bind by a t-cell-specific transcription factor , nfatp , as well a by ap-1 .
vdr dna-binding mutant be unable to either bind to this element in vitro or repress in vivo ; the vdr dna-binding domain alone , however , bind the element but also could not repress il-2 expression .
these result indicate that dna binding by vdr be necessary but not sufficient to mediate il-2 repression .
by combine partially purify protein in vitro , we observe the loss of the bind nfatp /ap-1-dna complex upon inclusion of vdr or vdr -retinoid x receptor .
order of addition and off-rate experiment indicate that the vdr -retinoid x receptor heterodimer block nfatp / ap-1 complex formation and then stably associate with the nf-at-1 element .
this direct inhibition by a nuclear hormone receptor of transcriptional activator of the il-2 gene may provide a mechanistic explanation of how vitamin derivative can act a potent immunosuppressive agent .
the a-myb transcription factor in neoplastic and normal b cell .
the myb family of transcription factor have be strongly implicate in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation in the haematopoietic system .
the v-myb oncogene , carry by avian defective retrovirus , cause leukaemia in the chicken and transform haematopoietic cell in vitro .
it normal cellular equivalent c-myb , have be show to promote the proliferation and block the differentiation of haematopoietic cell in several experimental model and be require for fetal haematopoiesis .
two other member of the family have be clone more recently , a-myb and b-myb , which show sequence homology with c-myb in several domain , of which the dna binding domain as well a other regulatory domain .
both have be show to be transcription factor .
b-myb be also involve in the control of proliferation and differentiation , but , unlike c-myb , it be express in many cell type .
the third member of the family , a-myb , show the most restricted pattern of expression , suggest a very specific role for this transcription factor .
a-myb be express in a subpopulation of normal b lymphocyte activate in vivo and localised in the germinal center of peripheral lymphoid organ and be not detect at significant level in all other mature or immature haematopoietic population study , include bone marrow cell , t lymphocyte , granulocyte , monocyte , either at rest or after in vitro activation .
these study indicate that a-myb play a role during a narrow window of normal b cell differentiation .
a-myb expression have also be study in a wide range of neoplastic b cell , represent the whole spectrum of b cell differentiation .
a-myb be strongly express in burkitt 's lymphoma ( bl ) and slg+ b-acute lymphoblastic leukaemia ( b-all ) and not in all other leukaemia /lymphomas test , with the exception of a subset of cll ( about 25 % of case ) .
it be intriguing that the a-myb genome have be localised relatively close to the c-myc gene on chromosome 8 , suggest that the c-myc translocation in bl and b-all may affect a-myb transcription .
study be in progress to investigate the functional relationship between a-myb and c-myc , particularly in the context of bl cell and to determine whether a-myb be deregulate in these cell .
nuclear level of nf-kappab correlate with syncytium-forming capacity of 8e51 cell , express a defective hiv virus .
the double nf-kappab site identify in the ltr of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( hiv-1 ) have be demonstrate to be necessary for efficient viral transcription .
in this report we present the characterisation of nf-kappab subunit engage in complex bind to the hiv-1 nf-kappab site in human 8e51 t-cells , that harbour a defective hiv-1 .
at least four different specific nf-kappab complex be present in the nucleus of these cell .
with the use of specific antibody we have determine the composition of each complex use electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
the result show the presence of several nf-kappab family member , with the transactivating rela be engage in multiple complex .
the importance of nf-kappab complex in viral function have be establish compare the level of nf-kappab dna-binding complex with syncytia-forming activity of 8e51 cell .
in fact , 8e51 cell that have almost lose their syncytia-forming capacity be find to contain at least 10 time less active nf-kappab dna-binding complex than the actively fuse cell .
the correlation be specific a the level of at least three other transcription factor do not change .
uncoupling of nonreceptor tyrosine kinase from plc-gamma1 in an slp-76-deficient t cell .
activation of nonreceptor protein tyrosine kinase ( ptks ) be essential for t cell receptor ( tcr ) responsiveness ; however , the function of individual ptk substrate be often uncertain .
a mutant t cell line be isolate that lack expression of slp-76 ( sh2 domain-containing leukocyte protein of 76 kilodaltons ) , a hematopoietically express adaptor protein and ptk substrate .
slp-76 be not require for tcr -induced tyrosine phosphorylation of most protein , but be require for optimal tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of phospholipase c-gamma1 ( plc-gamma1 ) , as well a ra pathway activation .
tcr -inducible gene expression be dependent on slp-76 .
thus , coupling of tcr-regulated ptks to downstream signaling pathway require slp-76 .
the involvement of p23 , hsp90 , and immunophilins in the assembly of progesterone receptor complex .
to well understand the assembly mechanism for the progesterone receptor ( pr ) , we have develop cell-free system for study interaction of pr , hsp90 , and other associate protein .
when pr be incubate in rabbit reticulocyte lysate , it association with hsp90 , hsp70 , the three immunophilins fkbp54 , fkbp52 and cyp-40 , and with p23 be observe .
these interaction require atp/mg2+ and when atp be limit the pr complex be alter to one contain the protein p60 and p48 , but lack immunophilins and p23 .
we have study two pre-formed hsp90 complex that may participate in the assembly of pr complex .
one contain hsp90 bind to hsp70 and p60 and this complex form spontaneously in the absence of atp .
a second complex contain hsp90 bind to p23 plus the three immunophilins and some hsp70 .
the formation of this complex require atp .
in further study we have show that purify hsp90 can bind to purify p23 and this interaction require both atp and molybdate .
this explain , in part , the known effect of atp and molybdate on assembly of pr complex .
increase natural killer cell activity correlate with low or negative expression of the her-2/neu oncogene in patient with breast cancer .
background .
increase expression of the her-2/neu oncogene in breast cancer correlate with decrease estrogen receptor concentration and seem to be an important prognostic factor .
the author investigate whether there be a correlation between her-2/neu expression and immunologic parameter represent tumor defense in patient with breast cancer .
method .
a western blot analysis be use to investigate her-2/neu expression , whereas a chromium-release assay use the k562 cell line a target be use to measure natural killer ( nk ) cell activity .
result .
in patient with breast cancer , nk cell activity be significantly high compare with patient with benign tumor ( p = 0.006 ) or healthy control subject ( p = 0.002 ) .
moreover , 23.3 % of patient with breast cancer show an overexpression of her-2/neu protein .
within this group of patient , nk cell activity be significantly low ( 45.6 +/- 16.1 % ) compare with the group with no her-2/neu overexpression ( 57.3 +/- 11.0 % ) .
nk cell activity do not increase in patient with her-2/neu overexpression .
thus , there be a statistically significant correlation of cytolytic effector cell function with her-2/neu expression of the tumor ( p = 0.003 ) , and her-2/neu overexpression correlate with a negative estrogen receptor status ( p = 0.005 ) .
conclusion .
these data add further evidence to previous observation from the author ' laboratory that certain tumor characteristic may be associate with reaction of the host with breast cancer .
c-myc mrna expression in minor salivary gland of patient with sjogren 's syndrome .
c-myc protooncogene be implicate in the pathogenesis of b cell lymphoid malignancy and high level of c-myc mrna expression be observe in activate blood mononuclear cell .
sjogren 's syndrome ( s ) be characterize by lymphocytic infiltrates of exocrine gland , remarkable b cell hyperreactivity and a strong predisposition to b cell neoplasia .
in this study , c-myc protooncogene mrna expression in 29 labial minor salivary gland biopsy from patient with primary s and 15 control be examine use in situ hybridization histochemistry .
two 40mer oligonucleotides from the 1st and the 2nd exon of the c-myc gene , label with 35s , be use a probe .
to detect the origin of the cell hybridize with a c-myc probe , a combined immunochemistry in situ hybridization histochemistry technique be use .
high c-myc mrna expression be detect on acinar epithelial cell .
c-myc do not correlate with c-fos and c-jun protein expression .
strong c-myc mrna expression be detect in labial salivary gland of patient with long disease duration ( p less than or equal to 0.002 ) and more intense t lymphocyte infiltrates ( p less than 0.05 ) although these patient reveal no hypergammaglobulinemia .
no correlation be observe between c-myc mrna and b lymphocyte monoclonicity or lymphoma .
in conclusion , strong c-myc mrna expression be observe on epithelial cell of labial salivary gland from patient with primary s .
our finding may indicate the presence of a reactivate virus host in these cell .
a novel t-cell trans-activator that recognize a phorbol ester-inducible element of the interleukin-2 promoter .
the interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene promoter be recognize by several cell-type-specific and ubiquitous transcriptional regulator that integrate information transmit by various signaling system lead to il-2 production and t-cell activation .
use a combination of transfection , protein-dna binding , and in vitro transcription method , we have discover the novel t-cell-specific transcriptional activator tcf-1 ( for t-cell factor-1 ) , which recognize a t-cell-specific response element ( tce ) located within the il-2 promoter .
although the tce be similar in sequence to a consensus nf kappa b site , several criterion indicate that tcf-1 be distinct from nf kappa b .
however , like nf kappa b , tcf-1 activity be induce by phorbol ester and other t-cell activator .
scl and related hemopoietic helix-loop-helix transcription factor .
the helix-loop-helix ( hlh ) protein be a family of transcription factor that include protein critical to differentiation and development in specie range from plant to mammal .
five member of this family ( myc , scl , tal-2 , lyl-1 and e2a ) be implicate in oncogenic event in human lymphoid tumor because of their consistent involvement in chromosomal translocation .
although activate in t cell leukemia , expression of scl and lyl-1 be low or undetectable in normal t cell population .
scl be express in erythroid , megakaryocyte and mast cell population ( the same cell lineage a gata-1 , a zinc-finger transcription factor ) .
in addition , both scl and gata-1 undergo coordinate modulation during chemically induce erythroid differentiation of mouse erythroleukemia cell and be down-modulated during myeloid differentiation of human k562 cell , thus imply a role for scl in erythroid differentiation event .
however , in contrast to gata-1 , scl be express in the develop brain .
study of the function of scl suggest it be also important in proliferation and self-renewal event in erythroid cell .
involvement of intracellular ca2+ in oxidant-induced nf-kappa b activation .
in human jurkat t cell and it subclone wurzburg cell oxidant challenge elevate [ca2+]i by mobilize ca2+ from intracellular store .
in jurkat cell this effect be rapid and transient , but in wurzburg cell the response be slow and sustained .
h2o2 -induced nf-kappab activation in wurzburg cell be not influence by the presence of extracellular egta but be totally inhibit in cell that be load with esterify egta .
in jurkat cell that be not sensitive to h2o2 -induced nf-kappab activation , h2o2 potentiate nf-kappab activation in the presence of sustained high [ ca2+ ]i follow thapsigargin treatment .
nf-kappab regulatory effect of alpha-lipoate and n-acetylcysteine appear to be , at least in part , due to their ability to stabilize elevation of [ ca2+ ]i follow oxidant challenge .
result of this study indicate that a sustained elevated [ca2+]i be a significant factor in oxidant-induced nf-kappab activation .
v3 loop of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 suppress interleukin 2 -induced t cell growth [ publish erratum appear in aid re hum retrovirus 1997 may 1 ; 13 ( 7 ) : 633 ]
we test the effect of three linear or two loop peptide derive from the v3 region of the htlv-iii bh10 clone or the sf2 strain of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 on il-2 -driven t cell proliferation .
v3-bh10 , which consist of 42 amino acid and have a loop structure , suppress il-2 -driven proliferation of all il-2 -dependent cell [ kit225 , ed-40515(+) , kt-3 , 7-day pha-blasts , and fresh peripheral blood mononuclear cell ] test , whereas it do not suppress the cell growth of il-2 -independent cell line ( hut102 , molt-4 , and jurkat ) .
this suppressive effect be also see in il-2 -driven cell growth of cd8-positive lymphocyte purify from 7-day pha-blasts , indicate that cd4 molecule be not require for the suppression .
the treatment with anti- v3 loop monoclonal antibody ( 902 antibody ) completely abolish the suppressive effect of v3-bh10 .
in addition , v3-bh10 generate the arrest of kit225 cell and also purify cd8-positive lymphocyte in g1 phase in the presence of il-2 .
neither chromatin condensation nor dna fragmentation be detect in kit225 cell culture with v3-bh10 and il-2 .
v3-bh10 neither block radiolabeled il-2 binding to il-2 receptor nor affect tyrosyl phosphorylation of several cellular protein ( p120 , p98 , p96 , p54 , and p38 ) , which be immediately induce by il-2 stimulation .
however , v3-bh10 enhance il-2 -induced mrna expression of c-fos but not c-myc or junb .
thus , the binding of v3 loop of gp120 to the cell surface molecule ( s ) appear to affect intracellular il-2 signaling , which lead to the suppression of il-2 -induced t cell growth
activation of lymphokine gene in t cell : role of cis-acting dna element that respond to t cell activation signal .
activation of t cell be initiate by the recognition of antigen on antigen presenting cell to exert the effector function in immune and inflammatory response .
two type of helper t cell ( th ) clone ( th1 and th2 ) be define on the basis of different pattern of cytokine ( lymphokine ) secretion .
they determine the outcome of an antigenic response toward humoral or cell-mediated immunity .
although lymphokine gene be coordinately regulate upon antigen stimulation , they be regulate by the mechanism common to all as well a those which be unique to each gene .
for most lymphokine gene , a combination of phorbol ester ( phorbol 12-myristate 13 acetate , pma ) and calcium ionophores ( a23187 ) be require for their maximal induction .
yet phorbol ester alone or calcium ionophore alone produce several lymphokine .
the production of the granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) be completely dependent on the two signal .
we have previously find a cis-acting region span the gm-csf promoter region ( position -95 to +27 ) that confer inducibility to reporter gene in transient transfection assay .
further analysis identify three element require for efficient induction , refer to a gm2 , gc-box and conserve lymphokine element ( cle0 ) .
gm2 define a bind site for protein ( s ) whose binding be inducible by pma .
one protein , nf-gm2 be similar to the transcription factor nf-kb .
gc-box be a bind site for constitutively bind protein .
cleo define a bind site for protein ( s ) whose optimum binding be stimulate by pma and a23187 .
viral trans-activators such a tax ( human t cell leukemia virus-1 , htlv-1 ) and e2 ( bovine papilloma virus , bpv ) protein be other agent which activate lymphokine gene expression by bypass t cell receptor ( tcr ) mediated signaling .
the trans-activation domain of e2 and tax be interchangeable although they have no obvious sequence homology between them .
the viral trans-activators appear to target specific dna binding protein such a nf-kb and sp1 to cis-acting dna site and promote lymphokine gene expression without tcr -mediated stimulation .
alpha-tocopheryl succinate inhibit monocytic cell adhesion to endothelial cell by suppress nf-kappa b mobilization .
the adherence of monocyte to activate endothelium be an early event in atherogenesis .
because antioxidant have be consider to be of antiatherosclerotic potential , we investigate the effect of alpha-tocopherol ( tcp ) and it acetate and succinate ester on monocyte adhesion to cytokine-stimulated human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvec ) .
endothelial cell be treat with tcp , alpha-tocopherol acetate ( tcp acetate ) , or alpha-tocopheryl succinate ( tcp succinate ) before stimulation with tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ; 10 u/ml , 6 h ) or interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ; 10 u/ml , 6 h ) .
cytokine-stimulated cell surface expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 , cd106 ) and e-selectin ( elam-1 , cd62e ) , but not of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 , cd54 ) , be time- and dose- dependently inhibit by tcp succinate but not by tcp or tcp acetate .
tcp succinate ( 200 microm , 24 h ) reduce tnf-induced vcam-1 and e-selectin expression from a specific mean fluorescence intensity of 151 +/- 28 to 12 +/- 4 channel and from 225 +/- 38 to 79 +/- 21 channel , respectively .
succinate alone have no effect .
decrease adhesion molecule expression be associate with a reduction of monocytic cell adhesion .
tcp succinate ( 20 microm , 72 h ) , but not tcp ( 200 microm , 72 h ) , reduce u-937 cell adhesion to tnf-alpha -stimulated ( 10 u/ml , 6 h ) huvec by 30 % ( p < 0.025 ) and to il-1 beta -stimulated huvec by 56 % ( p < 0.010 ) .
electrophoretic mobility-shift assay of huvec nuclear protein reveal a decrease in tnf-alpha -stimulated nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation after pretreatment of huvec with tcp succinate but not with tcp , tcp acetate , or succinate alone .
in conclusion , we demonstrate that the vitamin e derivative tcp succinate prevent monocytic cell adhesion to cytokine-stimulated endothelial cell by inhibit the activation of nf-kappa b , far emphasize the antiatherosclerotic potential of lipid soluble antioxidant .
human erythroid 5-aminolevulinate synthase : promoter analysis and identification of an iron-responsive element in the mrna .
5-aminolevulinate synthase ( ala ) catalyze the first step of the heme biosynthetic pathway .
cdna clone for the human erythroid ala isozyme be isolate from a fetal liver library .
it can be deduce that the erythroid ala precursor protein have a molecular weight of 64.6 kd , and be similar in size to the previously isolate human housekeeping ala precursor of molecular weight 70.6 kd .
the mature mitochondrial form of the erythroid and housekeeping ala isozymes be predict to have molecular weight of 59.5 kd and 64.6 kd , respectively .
the two isozymes show little amino acid identity in their n-terminal signal sequence but have considerable sequence identity in the c-terminal two-thirds of their protein .
an analysis of the immediate promoter of the human erythroid ala gene reveal several putative erythroid-specific cis-acting element include both a gata-1 and an nf-e2 binding site .
an iron-responsive element ( ire ) motif have be identify in the 5'-untranslated region of the human erythroid ala mrna , but be not present in the housekeeping ala mrna .
gel retardation experiment establish that this ire motif form a protein_-_rna complex with cytosolic extract from human k562 cell and this binding be strongly compete with ire transcript from ferritin or transferrin receptor mrna .
a transcript of the ala ire , mutate in the conserve loop of the ire , do not readily form this protein_-_rna complex .
these result suggest that the ire motif in the ala mrna be functional and imply that translation of the mrna be control by cellular iron availability during erythropoiesis .
reduce mitogenic stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell a a prognostic parameter for the course of breast cancer : a prospective longitudinal study .
immunosuppression have be often associate with the course of malignant disease .
in the present study , the proliferation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmcs ) in response to mitogenic stimulation with phytohaemagglutinin ( pha ) be assess prospectively in 90 patient with stage i-iii breast cancer .
whereas pha -induced proliferation of pbmcs derive from patient with breast cancer preoperatively be significantly decrease when compare with data obtain in healthy control individual ( p < 0.001 ) , the degree of the defect in pha -induced proliferation of pbmcs depend upon the tumour burden a manifest by tumour size and axillary lymph node involvement ( p < 0.003 in each case ) .
pha -induced proliferation of pbmcs drop significantly in patient who receive adjuvant chemotherapy consist of cyclophosphamide , methotrexate and fluorouracil ( cmf ) after an observation period of 6 month ( p < 0.01 ) , but not in patient under adjuvant treatment with tamoxifen only .
after an additional 6 month ( i.e. 12 month after surgery ) , pha -induced proliferation of pbmcs be similar in patient after adjuvant chemotherapy with cmf and in those receive continued adjuvant tamoxifen treatment ( p > 0.1 ) , but in all patient still significantly decrease a compare with healthy control ( p < 0.001 ) .
when data obtain preoperatively and after 12 month be compare , it be find that out of 23 patient whose pbmcs have experience a drop in their pha -induced proliferation , 14 ( 61 % ) have develop metastatic disease within the subsequent 24 month ( i.e. 36 month after surgery ) .
in contrast , out of 59 patient whose pbmcs show an increase in their pha -induced proliferation within the first 12 month after surgery , only one ( 2 % ) present with disease progression .
we thus conclude that pha -induced proliferation of pbmcs derive from patient with breast cancer depend upon the tumour load and be a good clinical predictor for the further course of the disease .
tcf-1 , a t cell-specific transcription factor of the hmg box family , interact with sequence motif in the tcr beta and tcr delta enhancer .
we have recently identify and clone tcf-1 , a t cell-specific transcription factor with specificity for the aacaaag motif in the cd3 epsilon enhancer and for the ttcaaag motif in the tcr alpha enhancer .
tcf-1 belong to the family of transcription-regulating protein which share a region of homology term the hmg-box .
here , we show by gel retardation analysis that tcf-1 specifically recognize the t beta 5 element of the tcr beta enhancer and the t delta 7 element of the tcr delta enhancer .
comparison of the sequence of all element recognize by tcf-1 define a consensus motif a/t a/t c a a/g a g .
these observation imply that tcf-1 be involve in the control of several t cell-specific gene and might thus play an important role in the establishment and maintenance of the mature t cell phenotype .
human cytomegalovirus induce interleukin-8 production by a human monocytic cell line , thp-1 , through act concurrently on ap-1- and nf-kappab- binding site of the interleukin-8 gene .
cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection induce interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) gene transcription in a human monocytic cell line , thp-1 cell , lead to il-8 secretion .
the functional analysis of the il-8 gene reveal that both ap-1- and nf-kappab factor- binding element be involve in confer the responsiveness to cmv .
moreover , electrophoretic mobility shift assay demonstrate that cmv induce the formation of nf-kappab and ap-1 complex .
these result suggest that cmv activate these transcriptional factor , result in il-8 gene expression .
tissue-specific expression of the platelet gpiib gene .
one of the major objective in the study of thrombogenesis be to determine the mechanism by which a hematopoietic progenitor be activate and commit to the megakaryocytic lineage .
recent development of primary culture of human megakaryocyte and the molecular cloning of gene that be specific to this lineage offer the possibility of get some insight into the genetic mechanism that control megakaryocytopoiesis .
one gene of interest be the glycoprotein iib ( gpiib ) gene ; gpiib , the alpha subunit of the platelet cytoadhesin gpiib-iiia , be produce in megakaryocyte at an early stage of the differentiation , whereas the other subunit of this complex , gpiiia , be express in other cell .
for these reason , the 5'-flanking region of the gpiib gene be use to identify the region that interact with dna-binding nuclear factor .
a fragment extend from -643 to +33 be capable of control the tissue-specific expression of the cat gene in transfection experiment .
within this region , we have identify several sequence that be implicate in dna protein interaction a show in dnase i footprint and gel mobility shift assay .
one region , center at -54 , be similar to a nuclear factor e1-binding site , and a region located at position -233 contain a ccaat motif .
two domain center at position -345 and -540 , respectively , bind protein that be present in megakaryocytic cell and nonrelated cell as well .
finally , two other domain , located at position -460 and -510 , interact with protein that be only present in megakaryocytic cell .
in addition , deletion of the region contain these two domain result in a significant decrease of the promoter activity .
it be very likely that these domain bind megakaryocyte-specific nuclear protein act a positive transcription factor .
the c-terminus of the b cell activator oct-2 function a an activation domain in yeast .
oct-1 and oct-2 be human transcriptional activator that bind to the same dna element but activate distinct set of gene .
we express these factor in s._cerevisiae and observe great than 5-fold stimulation of a lacz reporter gene only with oct-2 .
transfer of the oct-2 c-terminal domain onto either oct-1 ( oct1.2 ) or a nonactivating dna-binding domain from gal4 create activator capable of great than 15 and 10-fold stimulation of activity , respectively .
thus , the c-terminus of oct-2 be sufficient to confer activation potential to nonactive dna-binding fragment in yeast .
human 15-lipoxygenase gene promoter : analysis and identification of dna binding site for il-13-induced regulatory factor in monocyte .
in order to study the transcriptional control of 15-lo expression , we have clone and sequence the human 15-lo promoter region .
the 15-lo promoter be associate with a cpg island at the 5'-end of the gene , and sequence analysis reveal putative sp1 and ap2 binding site/s and absence of tata or caat motif .
transcription be initiate at one major site .
use deletion construct , we have define an active promoter region of 1056 bp .
gel-shift assay reveal that transcriptional factor ( s ) induce only in response to il-13 treatment of human peripheral blood monocyte bind to the 15-lo promoter dna .
two region , dp1 ( -140 to -92 bp ) and dp2 ( -353 to -304 bp ) of the promoter be essential for transcription in hela cell and human peripheral monocyte .
hela nuclear extract contain a specific nuclear factor ( s ) bind to 15-lo promoter dna which be distinct from those derive from il-13 -treated human peripheral monocyte nuclear extract .
in addition , fluorescent in situ hybridization ( fish ) result refine the previous localization of 15-lo to human chromosome 17p13.3 .
tal1 and lim-only protein synergistically induce retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 expression in t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia by act a cofactor for gata3 .
previously , we have show that tal1 and the lim-only protein gene ( lmo ) be regularly coactivated in t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( t-all ) .
this observation be likely to relate to the finding that tal1 and lmo be highly synergistic in t-cell tumorigenesis in double- transgenic mouse .
to understand the molecular mechanism of functional synergy between tal1 and lmo in tumorigenesis and transcriptional regulation , we try to identify downstream target gene regulate by tal1 and lmo by a subtractive pcr method .
one of the isolate gene , that for retinaldehyde dehydrogenase 2 ( raldh2 ) , be regularly express in most of the t-all cell line that coexpressed tal1 and lmo .
exogenously transfected tal1 and lmo , but not either alone , induce raldh2 expression in a t-all cell line , hpb-all , not express endogeneous tal1 or lmo .
the raldh2 transcript in t-all be , however , mostly initiate within the second intron .
promoter analysis reveal that a gata site in a cryptic promoter in the second intron be essential and sufficient for the tal1- and lmo- dependent transcriptional activation , and gata3 bind to this site .
in addition , force expression of gata3 potentiate the induction of raldh2 by tal1 and lmo , and these three factor form a complex in vivo .
furthermore , a tal1 mutant not bind to dna also activate the transcription of raldh2 in the presence of lmo and gata3 .
collectively , we have identify the raldh2 gene a a first example of direct transcriptional target gene regulate by tal1 and lmo in t-all .
in this case , tal1 and lmo act a cofactor for gata3 to activate the transcription of raldh2
expression of c-fos and c-jun protein and ap-1 binding activity during cell cycle progression of hl60 cell and phytohemagglutinin -stimulated lymphocyte .
the protein product of the c-fos ( p62c-fos ) and c-jun ( p39c-jun ) gene be member of the ap-1 transcription factor family and be think to play important role in the regulation of gene expression during the cell cycle .
most study on the expression of these protein in relation to the cell cycle have be perform at the mrna level , and therefore do not give direct information about the presence of the protein during the cell cycle .
we have use western blotting to investigate the presence of these protein during the cell cycle of two different cellular system : a continuously grow myeloid leukemic cell line , hl60 , and normal cell stimulate into cycle , phyto-_hemagglutinin ( pha ) -stimulated normal human peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) .
the binding activity of transcription factor ap-1 , which consist of dimer of fo and jun family protein , be also study use a gel shift assay .
we find nuclear p62c-fos , p39c-jun , and ap-1 binding activity throughout the cell cycle both in hl60 cell and in pha -stimulated pbl , and we postulate that these protein be require throughout the cell cycle and not transiently in the g0 to g1 transition a previous mrna study have indicate .
we demonstrate an uncoupling of ap-1 binding activity from p62c-fos , and p39c-jun ap-1 activity be express more strongly in the g1- and g2/m- phase enriched sample than in the s-phase enriched sample of hl60 cell , while level of nuclear p62c-fos and p39c-jun be constant .
nucleus of unstimulated pbl from different donor express p62c-fos and p39c-jun , but ap-1 be not detect in the majority of sample .
follow pha stimulation of pbl , the increase in ap-1 activity be delay with respect to the augmentation of p39c-jun expression .
we also observe that cytoplasmic p62c-fos and p39c-jun be present in hl60 cell and pha -stimulated pbl .
however , no cytoplasmic p62c-fos be detect in unstimulated pbl , although in some case cytoplasmic p39c-jun be detect , suggest that subcellular compartmentalization of these protein may occur under certain circumstance .
cyclosporin a -resistant transactivation of the il-2 promoter require activity of okadaic acid-sensitive serine /threonine phosphatase .
expression of the il-2 gene require activation of t cell through stimulation of the tcr and costimulation through accessory receptor .
we have find recently that okadaic acid-sensitive ser /thr phosphatase be involve in a cyclosporin a -insensitive pathway that selectively transmit costimulatory signal .
in this study , we analyze whether activity of these phosphatase be necessary for the expression of the il-2 gene .
in both activate peripheral blood t lymphocyte and activate tumorigenic t cell line , il-2 gene expression be block at the transcriptional level by okadaic acid .
the transcription factor active at the il-2 promoter be differentially influence : upon down-modulation of okadaic acid -sensitive phosphatase , transactivation by octamer , nf-kappa b , and nf of activate t cell protein be abrogate , while transactivation by ap-1 protein be even enhance .
interleukin 2 and 15 activate stat3alpha in human t lymphocyte .
signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( stat3 ) have recently be show to exist in two alternatively splice isoforms , a short form , stat3beta , and a long form , stat3alpha , display difference in transcriptional activity .
it be unknown which stat3 isoform ( s ) be activate in response to interleukin ( il ) -2 and il-15 .
here , cytokine -induced activation of stat3 in previously activate cd4(+) human t cell be examine use stat3 antibody direct against different region of stat3 .
a determine by tyrosine phosphorylation , nuclear translocation and bind to an hsie-oligonucleotide probe , il-2 and il-15 activate the slowly migrate isoform , stat3alpha .
in contrast , minimal or no activation of stat3beta be observe , suggest that il-2 and il-15 predominantly activate stat3alpha in human cd4(+) t cell .
in this way , diversity in the expression and activation of stat3 protein may provide additional mean of regulate cytokine -induced t cell response .
copyright 1998 academic press .
nuclear localization of relb be associate with effective antigen-presenting cell function .
dendritic cell ( dc ) be potent apc that enter rest tissue a precursor and , after ag exposure , differentiate and migrate to drain lymph node .
the phenotype of relb knockout mouse implicate this member of the nf kappa b/rel family in dc differentiation .
to far elucidate the role of relb in dc differentiation , mrna , intracellular protein expression , and dna binding activity of relb be examine in immature and differentiate human dc , as well a other pb mononuclear cell population .
relb protein and mrna be detect constitutively in lymphocyte and in activate monocyte , differentiate dc , and monocyte-derived dc .
immunohistochemical staining demonstrate relb within the differentiate lymph node interdigitating dc and follicular dc , but not undifferentiated dc in normal skin .
active nuclear relb be detect by supershift assay only in differentiated dc derive from either pb precursor or monocyte and in activate b cell .
these relb + apc be potent stimulators of the mlr .
the data indicate that relb expression be regulate both transcriptionally and post-translationally in myeloid cell .
within the nucleus , relb may specifically transactivate gene that be critical for apc function .
biphasic control of nuclear factor-kappa b activation by the t cell receptor complex : role of tumor necrosis factor alpha .
the regulation of nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b activation by the t cell receptor ( tcr ) /cd3 complex in primary human t cell have be study at various time after activation .
only p50 nf-kappa b protein bind the kappa b element of interleukin-2 receptor ( il-2r ) alpha chain promoter on rest t cell .
however , immediately after tcr/cd3 cross-linking ( after approximately 1 h ; immediate ) binding of p50.p65 heterodimers be observe .
p50.c-rel heterodimers be also detect bind to this sequence at early time point ( 7-16 h ; early ) , and both remain active at late time point ( 40 h ; late ) after activation .
this regulation take place mainly at the level of nuclear translocation of p65 and c-rel , at immediate and early time point .
activation also induce c-rel and p105/p50 mrna synthesis , but not p65 mrna whose expression be constitutive .
interestingly , all those early and late event , but not the immediate one , be inhibit by a neutralize anti- tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) monoclonal antibody .
similarly , cycloheximide prevent the p65 and c-rel translocation and consequent formation of active binding heterodimers , at early and late time .
cyclosporin a impair not only early and late , but also immediate event ; however , addition of tnf-alpha prevent all inhibition .
these result indicate that the regulation of nf-kappa b activation during t cell activation by tcr/cd3 signal be biphasic : tcr/cd3 trigger it immediate translocation , which be transient if no tnf-alpha be present .
tnf-alpha , therefore , emerge a the main factor responsible for a second phase of nf-kappa b regulation , control both translocation of p65 and c-rel , and new mrna synthesis for c-rel and p105/p50 .
characterization of a novel t lymphocyte protein which bind to a site related to steroid/thyroid hormone receptor response element in the negative regulatory sequence of the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat .
we have previously identify a t lymphocyte protein which bind to a site within the ltr of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) and exert an inhibitory effect on virus gene expression .
the palindromic site ( site b ) recognize by this protein be related to the palindromic bind site of member of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor family .
here we characterize the t cell protein bind to this site a a 100 kd protein which be most abundant in t cell and which bind to site b a a 200 kd complex .
this protein be distinct from other member of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor family include the coup protein which have a closely related dna binding specificity .
a mechanism for the antiinflammatory effect of corticosteroid : the glucocorticoid receptor regulate leukocyte adhesion to endothelial cell and expression of endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 .
corticosteroid be the preeminent antiinflammatory agent although the molecular mechanism that impart their efficacy have not be define .
the endothelium play a critical role in inflammation by direct circulate leukocyte into extravascular tissue by express adhesive molecule for leukocyte [ e.g. , endothelial-leukocyte adhesion molecule 1 ( elam-1 ) and intercellular adhesion molecule 1 ( icam-1 ) ] .
we therefore determine whether corticosteroid suppress inflammation by inhibit endothelial expression of adhesion molecule for neutrophil ( polymorphonuclear leukocyte ) .
preincubation of endothelial cell with endotoxin [ lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , 1 microgram/ml ] lead to a 4-fold increase in subsequent adherence of polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( p < 0.0001 , n = 10 ) to endothelial cell , an increase that be markedly attenuate when endothelial cell be treat with dexamethasone ( ic50 < 1 nm , p < 0.0001 , n = 6 or 7 ) during preincubation with lp .
moreover , the steroid receptor agonist cortisol ( 10 microm ) , but not it inactive metabolite tetrahydrocortisol ( 10 microm ) , diminish lp -induced endothelial cell adhesiveness .
further evidence that the action of dexamethasone be mediate through ligation of corticosteroid receptor [ human glucocorticoid receptor ( hgrs ) ] be provide by experiment utilize the steroid antagonist ru-486 .
ru-486 ( 10 microm ) , which prevent translocation of ligate hgr to the nucleus by inhibit dissociation of hgr from heat shock protein 90 , completely abort the effect of dexamethasone on adhesiveness of endothelial cell ( p < 0.0005 , n = 3 ) .
treatment of endothelial cell with lp ( 1 microgram/ml ) stimulate transcription of elam-1 , a show by northern blot analysis , and expression of membrane-associated elam-1 and icam-1 , a show by quantitative immunofluorescence ( both p < 0.001 , n = 9 ) .
dexamethasone markedly inhibit lp -stimulated accumulation of mrna for elam-1 and expression of elam-1 and icam-1 ( ic50 < 10 nm , both p < 0.001 , n = 4-9 ) ; inhibition of expression by dexamethasone be reverse by ru-486 ( both p < 0.005 , n = 4-6 ) .
a in the adhesion study , cortisol but not tetrahydrocortisol inhibit expression of elam-1 and icam-1 ( both p < 0.005 , n = 3 or 4 ) .
in contrast , sodium salicylate ( 1 mm ) inhibit neither adhesion nor expression of these adhesion molecule .
these study suggest that antagonism by dexamethasone of endotoxin -induced inflammation be a specific instance of the general biological principle that the glucocorticoid receptor be a hormone-dependent regulator of transcription .
precise alignment of site require for mu enhancer activation in b cell .
the lymphocyte-specific immunoglobulin mu heavy-chain gene intronic enhancer be regulate by multiple nuclear factor .
the previously define minimal enhancer contain the mua , mue3 , and mub site be transactivated by a combination of the ets-domain protein pu.1 and ets-1 in nonlymphoid cell .
the core ggaas of the mua and mub site be separate by 30 nucleotide , suggest that ets protein bind to these site from these same side of the dna helix .
we test the necessity for appropriate spatial alignment of these element by use mutate enhancer with altered spacing .
a 4- or 10- bp insertion between mue3 and mub inactivate the mu enhancer in s194 plasma cell but do not affect in vitro binding of ets-1 , pu.1 , or the mue3 -binding protein tfe3 , alone or in pairwise combination .
circular permutation and phasing analysis demonstrate that pu.1 binding but not tfe3 or ets-1 bend mu enhancer dna toward the major groove .
we propose that the requirement for precise spacing of the mua and mub element be due in part to a directed dna bend induce by pu.1 .
common and distinct intracellular signaling pathway in human neutrophil utilize by platelet activating factor and fmlp .
stimulation of human neutrophil with chemoattractants fmlp or platelet activating factor ( paf ) result in different but overlap functional response .
we question whether these difference might reflect pattern of intracellular signal transduction .
stimulation with either paf or fmlp result in equivalent phosphorylation and activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) homologue 38-kd murine map kinase homologous to hog-1 ( p38 ) mapk .
neither fmlp nor paf activate c-jun nh2-terminal mapk ( jnks ) .
under identical condition , fmlp but not paf , result in significant p42/44 ( erk ) mapk activation .
both fmlp and paf activate map kinase kinase-3 ( mkk3 ) , a known activator of p38 mapk .
both map erk kinase kinase-1 ( mekk1 ) and raf be activate strongly by fmlp , but minimally by paf .
pertussis toxin block fmlp -induced activation of the p42/44 ( erk ) mapk cascade , but not that of p38 mapk .
a specific p38 mapk inhibitor ( sk&f 86002 ) block superoxide anion production in response to fmlp and reduce adhesion and chemotaxis in response to paf or fmlp .
these result demonstrate distinct pattern of intracellular signaling for two chemoattractants and suggest that selective activation of intracellular signaling cascade may underlie different pattern of functional response .
analysis of myeloid-associated gene in human hematopoietic progenitor cell .
the distribution of myeloid lineage-associated cytokine receptor and lysosomal protein be analyze in human cd34+ cord blood cell ( cb ) subset at different stage of myeloid commitment by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) .
the highly specific granulomonocyte-associated lysosomal protein myeloperoxidase ( mpo ) and lysozyme ( lz ) , as well a the transcription factor pu.1 , be already detectable in the most immature cd34+thy-1+ subset .
messenger rna ( mrna ) level for the granulocyte-colony stimulating factor ( g-csf ) receptor , granulocyte-macrophage ( gm ) -csf receptor alpha subunit and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) receptor i ( p55 ) and ii ( p75 ) be also detect in this subset in addition to c-kit and flt-3 , receptor know to be express on progenitor cell .
by contrast , the monocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor ( m-csf ) receptor be largely absent at this stage and in the cd34+thy-1-cd45ra- subset .
the m-csf receptor be first detectable in the myeloid-committed cd34+thy-l-cd45ra+ subset .
all other molecule study be find to be express at this stage of differentiation .
different cocktail of the identify ligand be add to sort cd34+thy-1+ single cell .
low proliferative capacity be observe after 1 week in culture in the presence of stem cell factor ( scf ) + flt-3 ligand ( fl ) + g-csf .
addition of gm-csf to this basic cocktail consistently increase the clonogenic capacity of single cd34+thy-1+ cell , and this effect be far enhance ( up to 72.3 +/- 4.3 % on day 7 ) by the inclusion of tnf-alpha .
in conclusion , the presence of myeloid-associated growth factor receptor transcript in cd34+ cb subset do not discriminate the various stage of differentiation , with the exception of the m-csf receptor .
in addition , we show that tnf-alpha be a potent costimulatory factor of the very immature cd34+thy-1+ cb subset .
nuclear appearance of a factor that bind the cd28 response element within the interleukin-2 enhancer correlate with interleukin-2 production .
activation of t lymphocyte require the combined signaling of the t cell receptor and costimulatory molecule such a cd28 .
the ability of t cell to produce interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) be a critical control point in t lymphocyte activation .
the il-2 enhancer contain a functional motif name cd28 response element ( cd28re ) that serve a role a a target for mitogenic t cell activation signal .
the cd28re sequence reveal similarity to the consensus kappab binding motif .
here we demonstrate that cd28re bind an inducible protein with a molecular mass of approximately 35 kda call nuclear factor of mitogenic-activated t cell ( nf-matp35 ) that be clearly different from the known nf-_kappab/ rel family member .
induction of nf-matp35 be show to depend on de novo protein synthesis and be restricted to t cell that receive a mitogenic combination of t cell stimulus , not necessarily include cd28 signaling .
nonmitogenic t cell stimulation do not result in appearance of nf-matp35 .
these result indicate that mitogenic combination of t cell activation signal be integrate at the level of nf-matp35 induction .
similar to it effect on il-2 production , cyclosporin a inhibit the induction of nf-matp35 .
take together , these data demonstrate that the nuclear appearance of nf-matp35 show excellent correlation with il-2 production , which be a unique characteristic among nuclear factor implicate in the control of il-2 gene expression .
natural variant of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat : analysis of promoter with duplicated dna regulatory motif .
sequence variation in the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) region of hiv-1 be analyze in viral isolates of 17 infected individual .
two class of ltr size variant be find .
one hiv-1 variant be detect contain an additional bind site for the transcription factor sp1 .
another ltr size variation be observe in four patient in a region just upstream of the nf-kappa b enhancer .
this variation be the result of a duplication of a short dna sequence ( ctg-motif ) .
cell culture experiment demonstrate that the natural variant with four sp1 site have a slightly high promoter activity and viral replication rate than the isogenic control ltr with three sp1 site .
no positive effect of the duplicated ctg-motif could be detect .
in order to measure small difference in virus production more accurately , equal amount of a size variant and the wild-type plasmid be cotransfected into t-cells .
the virus with four sp1 site do outgrow the three sp1 virus in 35 day of culture and ctg-monomer virus outcompeted the ctg-dimer virus in 42 day .
base on these result we estimate a 5-10 % difference in virus production of the ltr variant when compare to that of wild-type .
up-regulation of high-affinity dehydroepiandrosterone binding activity by dehydroepiandrosterone in activate human t lymphocyte .
although evidence indicate that dehydroepiandrosterone ( dhea ) exert direct physiological effect , it mechanism of action remain unknown .
dhea binding site be examine use a whole-cell binding assay in a human t lymphoid cell line , peer , reveal that a single class of high-affinity bind site for dhea ( dissociation constant = 7.4 +/- 0.53 nmol/l , mean +/- se , n = 4 ) be greatly increase when treat with dhea , phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate , and the ca2+ ionophore a23187 .
bind [3h] dhea be displaced sensitively by dhea and secondarily by dihydrotestosterone , but not effectively by other steroid , include dhea sulfate .
these result not only indicate the existence of a dhea receptor , but also suggest that t cell become susceptible to regulation by dhea during the process of signal-induced activation .
ligand-dependent repression of the erythroid transcription factor gata-1 by the estrogen receptor .
high-dose estrogen administration induce anemia in mammal .
in chicken , estrogen stimulate outgrowth of bone marrow-derived erythroid progenitor cell and delay their maturation .
this delay be associate with down-regulation of many erythroid cell-specific gene , include alpha- and beta- globin , band 3 , band 4.1 , and the erythroid cell-specific histone h5 .
we show here that estrogen also reduce the number of erythroid progenitor cell in primary human bone marrow culture .
to address potential mechanism by which estrogen suppress erythropoiesis , we have examine their effect on gata-1 , an erythroid transcription factor that participate in the regulation of the majority of erythroid cell-specific gene and be necessary for full maturation of erythrocyte .
we demonstrate that the transcriptional activity of gata-1 be strongly repress by the estrogen receptor ( er ) in a ligand-dependent manner and that this repression be reversible in the presence of 4-hydroxytamoxifen .
er -mediated repression of gata-1 activity occur on an artificial promoter contain a single gata-binding site , as well a in the context of an intact promoter which be normally regulate by gata-1 .
gata-1 and er bind to each other in vitro in the absence of dna .
in coimmunoprecipitation experiment use transfected co cell , gata-1 and er associate in a ligand-dependent manner .
mapping experiment indicate that gata-1 and the er form at least two contact , which involve the finger region and the n-terminal activation domain of gata-1 .
we speculate that estrogen exert effect on erythropoiesis by modulate gata-1 activity through protein-protein interaction with the er .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
high-level replication of human immunodeficiency virus in thymocytes require nf-kappab activation through interaction with thymic epithelial cell .
we have previously demonstrate that interaction of infected thymocytes with autologous thymic epithelial cell ( tec ) be a prerequisite for a high level of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication in thymocytes ( m.rothe , l.chene , m.nugeyre , f.barre-sinoussi , and n.israel , j.virol.72 : 5852-5861 , 1998 ) .
we report here that this activation of hiv replication take place at the transcriptional level through activation of the rel/ nf-kappab transcription factor .
we first demonstrate that an hiv-1 provirus ( sf-2 strain ) very effectively replicate in thymocytes cocultured with tec whereas this provirus , with kappab site delete , fail to replicate .
we provide evidence that several nf-kappab complex be constitutively find in the nucleus of thymocytes either freshly isolate from the thymus or maintain in coculture with autologous or heterologous tec .
the prevalent complex be the heterodimer p50-p65 .
nf-kappab activity be tightly correlate with the transcriptional activity of a long terminal repeat ( ltr ) of hiv-1 transfected in thymocytes .
the cotransfection of this ltr with a mutate ikappabalpha molecule formally demonstrate that ltr transactivation be regulate by member of the rel/ nf-kappab family in thymocytes .
we also show that tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) and to a less extent interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) , secrete within the coculture , induce nf-kappab activity and a correlative ltr transactivation .
however il-7 , a crucial factor for thymopoiesis that be secrete mainly by tec , be a necessary cofactor for nf-kappab activation elicit by tnf or il-1 .
together , these data indicate that nf-kappab activation , require for a high level of hiv replication in thymocytes , be regulate in a specific manner in the thymic microenvironment which provide the necessary cytokine : tnf , il-1 , and il-7 .
the transcriptionally active factor mediate the effect of the htlv-i tax transactivator on the il-2r alpha kappa b enhancer include the product of the c-rel proto-oncogene .
the transactivator htlv-i tax activate the promoter of the gene cod for the interleukin 2 alpha-chain receptor ( il-2r alpha ) via a kappa b site that can bind several protein specie of the rel family .
tax1 strongly activate the enhancer activity of this motif , in both epithelial hela and lymphoid jurkat cell .
this activation be not observe in undifferentiated embryocarcinoma f9 cell .
overexpression of the p50 , p65 and rel protein in these cell show that significant activation of the il-2r alpha kappa b site be observe only with rel and rel plus p65 .
moreover , whereas both tax and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) be able to efficiently induce the binding of nf-kappa b to the il-2r alpha kappa b site , pma be functionally inactive .
use the dna affinity precipitation assay , we observe that tax1 be able to efficiently induce the binding of rel , whereas pma be not .
this establish a clear difference between both stimulus , indicate that rel be the functionally active factor .
we conclude from these result that the functional activity of member of the rel family be regulate by their interaction with dna and that rel can be a potent transcriptional activator on specific kappa b site .
evaluation of the role of ligand and thermal activation of specific dna binding by in vitro synthesize human glucocorticoid receptor .
we have use a dna-binding/immunoprecipitation assay to analyze the capacity of human glucocorticoid receptor ( hgr ) , generate in rabbit reticulocyte lysates , to bind dna .
in vitro translate hgr be indistinguishable from native hgr , a determine by migration on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel , sedimentation on sucrose density gradient , and reactivity with antipeptide antibody generate against hgr .
in addition , cell-free synthesize hgr be capable of specific binding to glucocorticoid response element ( gre ) -containing dna fragment .
use this assay system , we have evaluate the contribution of ligand binding and heat activation to dna binding by these glucocorticoid receptor .
in vitro translate hgr be capable of selective dna binding even in the absence of glucocorticoid .
treatment with dexamethasone or the antiglucocorticoid ru486 have no additional effect on the dna-binding capacity when receptor preparation be maintain at 0 c ( no activation ) .
in contrast , addition of either ligand or antagonist in combination with a heat activation step promote dna binding by approximately 3-fold over that of heat-activated unliganded receptor .
agonist ( dexamethasone ) be slightly more effective in support specific dna binding than antagonist ( ru486 ) .
dna binding by in vitro synthesize gr be block by the addition of sodium molybdate to the receptor preparation before steroid addition and thermal activation .
addition of kcl result in less dna binding either due to blockage of dna- receptor complex formation or disruption of the complex .
the specificity of dna binding by cell-free synthesize hgr be analyze far by examine the ability of various dna to compete for bind to a naturally occur gre find in the mouse mammary tumor virus-long terminal repeat .
oligonucleotides contain the consensus gre be the most efficient competitor , and fragment contain regulatory sequence from glucocorticoid -repressible gene be somewhat competitive , whereas single stranded oligonucleotides be unable to compete for mouse mammary tumor virus-long terminal repeat dna binding , except when competitor be present at extremely high concentration .
together these study indicate that hgr synthesize in rabbit reticulocyte lysates display many of the same property , include gre -specific dna binding , observe for glucocorticoid receptor present in cytosolic extract of mammalian cell and tissue .
similarity between the effect of dexamethasone and ru486 suggest that the antiglucocorticoid property of ru486 do not occur at the level of specific dna binding .
the transcription factor c-myb and c/ebp alpha regulate the monocytic/myeloic gene mrp14 .
the entry of microorganism into the body induce inflammatory process .
during this process a sequence of cellular , humoral , non-specific and specific action be evoke to combat the infection .
macrophage and granulocyte , which be develop from a common progenitor cell , be the cellular component of the specific and non-specific immunoreaction .
mrp14 ( macrophage migration inhibitory related protein ) and mrp8 , two s-100 protein contain in high concentration in these cell be obviously essential for adhesion and migration of monocyte and granulocyte .
to investigate the transcriptional regulation of these gene we cotransfected construct express cat under control of the mrp14 promoter and expression construct of c/ebp alpha and v-myb , two transcription factor involve in myeloid/monocytic differentiation .
transfection with c/ebp alpha reveal a massive enhancement of the mrp14 promoter in both , hl 60 cell ( granulocytic differentiate ) and l132 fibroblast .
in contrast , v-myb reduce mrp14 promoter activity .
northern blot analysis of l132 cell transfected with the c/ebp alpha expression vector demonstrate that c/ebp alpha be sufficient to enhance mrp14 expression in the context of the whole genome .
the promoter and 5' flanking sequence control human b29 gene expression .
the product of the b-cell-specific b29 gene ( b29 , ig beta , cd79b ) be essential for ig-mediated b-cell activation via the b-cell antigen receptor complex ( bcr ) on human and murine b lymphocyte .
to well understand the regulation of this pivotal gene , we have analyze the human genomic dna sequence upstream of the b29 atg start codon for transcriptional control activity .
the human b29 gene lack either a tata or a caat box and transcription be initiate at multiple site .
the minimal promoter of the human b29 gene be contain within a 193-bp region 5' of these multiple start site .
this minimal promoter exhibit b-cell-specific activity and contain sp1 , ets , oct , and ikaros/lyf-1 transcription factor motif .
all these motif be strikingly conserve in sequence and placement relative to the previously characterize murine b29 promoter .
additional upstream gene segment dramatically affect b29 minimal promoter activity .
a newly identify motif call the b29 conserve sequence ( bcs ) , find upstream of both human and murine b29 promoter , appear to stimulate b29 transcription through a novel mechanism .
a single bcs have little effect either on the minimal b29 promoter or on a heterologous promoter .
instead , the bcs stimulate transcription by counteract 5' negative regulatory dna sequence that block the activity of the b29 minimal promoter in it absence .
these finding indicate that b29 gene expression be control by the complex interplay of positive and negative regulatory element .
expression status of bcl-6 and syndecan-1 identify distinct histogenetic subtypes of hodgkin 's disease .
the tumor cell in most case of hodgkin 's disease ( hd ) have be recently recognize to originate from the b-cell lineage , but their precise differentiation stage be not fully clarify .
recently , we have report that the histogenesis of b-cell lymphoma may be assess by monitor the expression pattern of bcl-6 , a transcription factor express in germinal center ( gc ) b cell , and cd138/ syndecan-1 ( syn-1 ) , a proteoglycan associate with post-gc , terminal b-cell differentiation .
in this study , we have apply these two marker to the study of hd histogenesis .
we have find that in nodular lymphocyte predominance hd ( nlphd ) tumor cell consistently display the bcl-6 (+)/ syn-1 (-) phenotype , indicate their derivation from gc b cell .
conversely , classic hd ( chd ) be heterogeneous because the tumor cell of a fraction of chd display the bcl-6 (-)/ syn-1 (+) phenotype of post-gc b-cells , whereas another fraction of chd be constitute by a mixture of tumor cell reflect the gc ( bcl-6 (+)/ syn-1 (-) ) or post-gc ( bcl-6 (-)/ syn-1 (+) ) phenotype .
bcl-6 (-)/ syn-1 (+) tumor cell of chd be mostly find surround by t cell express cd40l , consistent with the observation that cd40 signaling downregulates bcl-6 expression .
these data indicate that tumor cell of nlphd uniformly display a gc b-cell phenotype , whereas the phenotype of tumor cell of chd appear to be modulate by the surrounding cellular background , particularly cd40l + reactive t cell .
a novel human homeobox gene distantly related to proboscipedia be express in lymphoid and pancreatic tissue .
a novel human homeobox gene , hb9 , be isolate from a cdna library prepare from in vitro stimulate human tonsil b lymphocyte and from a human genomic library .
the hb9 gene be compose of 3 exon spread over 6 kilobases of dna .
an open reading frame of 1206 nucleotide be in frame with a diverged homeodomain .
the predict hb9 protein have a molecular mass of 41 kilodaltons and be enriched for alanine , glycine , and leucine .
the hb9 homeodomain be most similar to that of the drosophila melanogaster homeobox gene proboscipedia .
northern blot analysis of poly(a) rna purify from the human b cell line rpmi 8226 and from activate t cell reveal a major mrna transcript of 2.2 kilobases .
similar analysis of poly(a) rna from a variety of adult tissue demonstrate hb9 transcript in pancreas , small intestine , and colon .
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction be use to examine hb9 rna transcript in hematopoietic cell line .
hb9 rna transcript be most prevalent in several human b cell line and k562 cell .
in addition , transcript be detect in rna prepare from tonsil b cell and in situ hybridization study localize them in the germinal center region of adult tonsil .
these finding suggest the involvement of hb9 in regulate gene transcription in lymphoid and pancreatic tissue .
jak1 expression be require for mediate interleukin-4-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate and stat6 signaling molecule .
the jak1 , jak2 , jak3 , and fe tyrosine kinase have be demonstrate to undergo tyrosine phosphorylation in response to interleukin ( il ) -4 stimulation in different cell system .
however , it be not clear which , if any , of these kinase be responsible for initiate il-4-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of intracellular substrate in vivo .
in the present study , we have utilize a mutant jak1 -deficient hela cell line , e1c3 , and it parental jak1 -expressing counterpart , 1d4 , to analyze the role of jak1 in mediate il-4-induced tyrosine phosphorylation event .
il-4 treatment rapidly induce tyrosine phosphorylation of insulin receptor substrate ( irs ) -1 and irs-2 in 1d4 but not in e1c3 cell .
il-4 -mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of stat6 be pronounce in 1d4 cell , while no il-4 -induced stat6 phosphorylation be detect in e1c3 cell .
il-4 also induce stat6 dna binding activity from lysates of 1d4 but not e1c3 cell utilize a radiolabeled immunoglobulin heavy chain germline epsilon promotor sequence ( iepsilon ) in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
reconstitution of jak1 expression in e1c3 cell restore the ability of il-4 to induce irs and stat6 tyrosine phosphorylation .
these result provide evidence that jak1 expression be require for mediate tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of crucial molecule involve in il-4 signal transduction .
human immunodeficiency virus type-1 transcription : role of the 5'-untranslated leader region ( review ) .
human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv-1 ) transcription be dependent on the interaction of host-cell transcription factor with cis-regulatory dna element within the viral long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
much attention have focus on the series of sequence element upstream of the transcriptional initiation site in the u3 region of the ltr include the sp1 and nf-kappab binding site .
recent study , however , demonstrate that the transcribe 5'-untranslated leader region ( 5'-utr ) also contain important transcriptional element .
these regulatory element situated downstream of transcription interact with constitutive and inducible transcription factor , mediate transmission of cellular activation signal , and be important for efficient hiv-1 transcription and replication .
the 5'-utr contain bind site for the transcription factor ap-1 , nf-kappab , nf-at , irf , and sp1 .
mutation in these bind site can interfere with the viral response to cell activation signal , decrease ltr transcription , and inhibit viral replication .
the 5'-utr also interact with a specific nucleosome that be rapidly displace during transcriptional activation of the latent provirus .
we propose that the inducible transcription factor binding site in the 5'-utr comprise a downstream enhancer domain that can function independent of , or in concert with , the ltr promoter to rapidly increase latent proviral transcription in response to cell activation signal .
in this review , we describe the host-cell transcription factor that interact with the 5'-utr and discuss their role in the transcriptional regulation of hiv-1 gene expression .
a shorten life span of eklf-/- adult erythrocyte , due to a deficiency of beta-globin chain , be ameliorate by human gamma-globin chain .
use homologous recombination , both eklf allele in murine embryonic stem ( e ) cell be inactivate .
these eklf-/- e cell be capable of undergo in vitro differentiation to form definitive erythroid colony that be similar in size and number to those form by wild-type e cell .
however , the eklf-/- colony be poorly hemoglobinized and enucleate erythrocyte in these colony contain numerous heinz body .
reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) analysis reveal that adult and embryonic globin gene be appropriately regulate , with the exception of beta h1-globin , which continue to be express at a very low level .
the ratio of adult beta-globin/alpha-globin mrna in the mutant e cell be 1/15 of that in wild-type e cell .
when the eklf-/- cell be inject into blastocyst , they do not contribute at a detectable level to the mature erythrocyte compartment of the chimeric animal , base on analysis of glucose phosphate isomerase-1 ( gpi-1 ) isozymes and hemoglobin that distinguish e cell-derived erythrocyte from host blastocyst-derived erythrocyte .
in contrast , semiquantitative rt-pcr analysis of rna from reticulocyte of the same chimeric animal suggest that the e cell-derived reticulocyte be present at a level of 6 % to 8 % .
this indicate that the eklf-/- erythrocyte in adult animal must be short-lived , apparently due to the imbalance of beta- versus alpha- globin chain , lead to the precipitation of excess alpha-globin chain to form heinz body .
consistent with this hypothesis , the short life span be ameliorate by introduction into the eklf-/- e cell of a human lcr/gamma-globin gene , a evidence by the presence of e cell-derived reticulocyte as well a mature erythrocyte in the blood of the chimeric animal .
expression of the nucleoside diphosphate kinase in human skin cancer : an immunohistochemical study .
expression of nucleoside diphosphate ( ndp ) kinase , which be homologous to the nm23 gene product in a variety of specie , have be find to be inversely associate with metastatic potential .
however , the relationship remain controversial accord to the tumor cell type and experimental system , with conflict result from different research group .
in order to determine whether ndp kinase expression serve a a marker for metastatic potential in human skin cancer , we assess the level of ndp kinase expression in 9 keratoacanthoma ( ka ) , 26 squamous cell carcinoma ( sccs ) , and 25 basal cell carcinoma ( bccs ) use immunohistochemistry .
the expression of ndp kinase be intense in ka and scc compare with bcc .
however , the difference of ndp kinase expression between ka and scc be not statistically significant .
and there be no statistically significant difference in ndp kinase expression between scc with metastasis and scc without metastasis .
our result contradict the hypothesis concern the possible role of nm23 gene a a metastatic suppressor gene in human skin cancer .
the mechanism of overexpression in various tumor cell type and it biological significance in cutaneous carcinogenesis remain to be determine .
induction of bcl-2 expression by phosphorylated creb protein during b-cell activation and rescue from apoptosis .
engagement of surface immunoglobulin on mature b cell lead to rescue from apoptosis and to proliferation .
level of bcl-2 mrna and protein increase with cross-linking of surface immunoglobulin .
we have located the major positive regulatory region for control of bcl-2 expression in b cell in the 5'-flanking region .
the positive region can be divide into an upstream and a downstream regulatory region .
the downstream regulatory region contain a cyclic amp -responsive element ( cre ) .
we show by antibody supershift experiment and uv cross-linking follow by denature polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis that both creb and atf family member bind to this region in vitro .
mutation of the cre site that result in loss of creb binding also lead to loss of functional activity of the bcl-2 promoter in transient-transfection assay .
the presence of an active cre site in the bcl-2 promoter imply that the regulation of bcl-2 expression be link to a signal transduction pathway in b cell .
treatment of the mature b-cell line bal-17 with either anti-immunoglobulin m or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate lead to an increase in bcl-2 expression that be mediate by the cre site .
treatment of the more immature b-cell line , ramos , with phorbol ester rescue the cell from calcium-dependent apoptosis .
bcl-2 expression be increase follow phorbol ester treatment , and the increase expression be dependent on the cre site .
these stimulus result in phosphorylation of creb at serine 133 .
the phosphorylation of creb that result in activation be mediate by protein kinase c rather than by protein kinase a .
although the cre site be necessary , optimal induction of bcl-2 expression require participation of the upstream regulatory element , suggest that phosphorylation of creb alter it interaction with the upstream regulatory element .
the cre site in the bcl-2 promoter appear to play a major role in the induction of bcl-2 expression during the activation of mature b cell and during the rescue of immature b cell from apoptosis .
it be possible that the cre site be responsible for induction of bcl-2 expression in other cell type , particularly those in which protein kinase c be involve .
ciprofloxacin induce an immunomodulatory stress response in human t lymphocyte .
exposure of cell to adverse environmental condition invoke a genetically program series of event result in the induction of specific gene .
the fluoroquinolone antibiotic ciprofloxacin have recently be report to upregulate interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene induction .
in the present investigation , the effect of ciprofloxacin at supratherapeutic concentration on immediate-early ( < 2 h ) gene expression in primary human peripheral blood lymphocyte be study with northern blot .
in addition , transcriptional activity of il-2 and metallothionein enhancer and promoter region and transcription factor ap-1 , nf-kappab , and nf-at be analyze by chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) and electrophoretic mobility shift assay , respectively .
the concentration of c-fos , c-jun , c-myc , junb , and fra-1 mrna be increase in activate peripheral blood lymphocyte incubate with ciprofloxacin compare to that in untreated control .
ciprofloxacin increase cat activity in stimulate lymphocyte transfected with plasmid contain either the il-2 or metallothionein enhancer .
furthermore , among the transcription factor test , ap-1 activity be increase in stimulate purify t helper lymphocyte incubate with ciprofloxacin compare to drug-free control .
take together , ciprofloxacin increase the level of immediate-early transcript , enhance il-2 and metallothionein promoter induction , and upregulated ap-1 concentration in primary lymphocyte , reflect a program commonly observe in mammalian stress response .
differential effect of protein kinase c inhibitor on fibronectin -induced interleukin-beta gene transcription , protein synthesis and secretion in human monocytic cell .
human monocytic cell express interleukin-1beta ( il-1beta ) when stimulate with the extracellular matrix glycoprotein , fibronectin ( fn ) .
protein kinase c ( pkc ) activation be consider important for this process ; however , the metabolic step at which pkc act upon to mediate the fn -induced il-1beta response remain unclear .
we perform an analysis of the mechanism by which two pkc inhibitor , calphostin c and staurosporine , prevent the fn -induced il-1beta response .
both inhibitor block the secretion of il-1beta protein into the medium of peripheral blood mononuclear cell expose to fn .
immunoprecipitation analysis reveal that unde3r these circumstance , calphostin c inhibit the production of il-1beta protein , whereas staurosporine allow protein production , but inhibit it secretion .
to determine the mechanism responsible for these difference , we turn to human u937 promonocytic cell .
u937 cell transfected with the human full-length il-1beta promoter connect to a luciferase reporter gene be submit to transcription assay , northern blotting , and dna electrophoresis mobility gel shift assay .
these study reveal that calphostin c inhibit the nuclear translocation of the transcription factor activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) which be consider necessary for fn induction of il-1beta gene transcription , and prevent the transcription of the il-1beta gene .
in contrast , staurosporine alone induce ap-1 translocation and stimulation of the gene .
overall , our data indicate that calphostin c prevent the transcription of the il-1beta gene thereby inhibit protein synthesis .
base on the high specificity of this compound for pkc , we conclude that pkc be necessary for fn -induced il-1beta protein production .
in contrast , staurosporine prevent secretion of il-1beta by unknown mechanism
dysregulation of monocytic nuclear factor-kappa b by oxidize low-density lipoprotein .
nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) /rel transcription factor may be involve in atherosclerosis , a be suggest by the presence of activate nf-kappa b in human atherosclerotic lesion .
the aim of the present study be to investigate the effect of oxidize ldl ( oxldl ) on the nf-kappa b system in human thp-1 monocytic cell as well a adherent monocyte .
our result demonstrate that short-term incubation of these cell with oxldl activate p50/p65 contain nf-kappa b dimer and induce the expression of the target gene il-8 .
this activation of nf-kappa b be inhibit by the antioxidant and h2o2 scavenger pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and the proteasome inhibitor psi .
the oxldl -induced nf-kappa b activation be accompany by an initial depletion of i kappa b-alpha follow by a slight transient increase in the level of this inhibitor protein .
in contrast , long-term treatment with oxldl prevent the lipopolysaccharide -induced depletion of i kappa b-alpha , accompany by an inhibition of both nf-kappa b activation and the expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1 beta gene .
these observation provide additional evidence that oxldl be a potent modulator of gene expression and suggest that ( dys ) regulation of nf-kappa b /rel be likely to play an important role in atherogenesis .
differential utilization of janus kinase -signal transducer activator of transcription signaling pathway in the stimulation of human natural killer cell by il-2 , il-12 , and ifn-alpha .
il-2- , il-12- , and ifn-alpha- mediated signaling pathway be analyze in primary nk cell and in the nk3.3 cell line .
gel mobility shift and immunoprecipitation analysis reveal that in addition to activate stat3 ( signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 ) and stat5 , il-2 induce tyrosine and serine phosphorylation of stat1 alpha , which form ifn-gamma-activated sequence-binding complex by itself and with stat3 .
although il-2 and ifn-alpha activate stat1 alpha and stat5 , il-2 predominantly activate stat5 , while ifn-alpha predominantly activate stat1 alpha .
il-2 induce less stat1 alpha activation and ifn-alpha induce great stat5 activation in nk3.3 cell compare with preactivated primary nk cell .
in nk3.3 cell , il-2 induce comparable formation of c-fos promoter sis-inducible element ifn-gamma-activated sequence-binding complex contain stat3 alone with complex contain stat3 and stat1 alpha , while in preactivated primary nk cell , it preferentially induce complex contain stat3 and stat1 alpha .
thus , signaling in nk3.3 cell be not always identical with that in primary nk cell .
in contrast to il-2 and ifn-alpha , il-12 induce strong tyrosine phosphorylation of stat4 and variable weak phosphorylation of stat3 .
however , supershift analysis use the c-fos promoter sis-inducible element probe show that il-12 activate stat4 , stat1 alpha , and stat3 , and induce complex contain stat4 only , stat4 with stat1 alpha , stat3 with stat1 alpha , or stat1 alpha only in preactivated primary nk cell .
stat1 alpha activation by il-12 correlate with increase phosphorylation of serine , but not tyrosine .
finally , il-2 induce tyrosine phosphorylation of jak1 and jak3 , while il-12 induce phosphorylation of jak2 and tyk2 in both preactivated primary nk and nk3.3 cell .
differential phosphorylation and consequent differential activation of both separate and overlapping stat protein by il-2 , il-12 , and ifn-alpha may provide a molecular basis for the similarity and difference in the action of these cytokine on nk cell .
an interferon-gamma activation sequence mediate the transcriptional regulation of the igg fc receptor type ic gene by interferon-gamma .
expression of the igg fc receptor type i ( fc gamma ri ) on myeloid cell be dramatically increase by treatment with interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) .
we observe that fc gamma ri transcript level in monoblast-like u937 cell be elevate within 3 hr and peak 12 hr after exposure to ifn-gamma .
treatment of u937 with ifn-gamma for 9 hr in the presence of cycloheximide lead to super-induction of fc gamma ri expression .
nuclear run-on analysis reveal that the rate of fc gamma ri transcription be increase by ifn-gamma .
genomic sequence upstream of the fc gamma ric gene be clone and subject to primer extension analysis , which demonstrate a single transcription initiation site without a tata box .
transient transfections of cat reporter gene construct contain various fc gamma ric promoter sequence into u937 cell reveal that a 20-bp region surround the transcription start site ( -7 to +13 ) be capable of mediate transcription initiation and that an ifn-gamma responsive element ( gire ) be present within 74 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site .
a 17-bp sequence between position -51 and -35 confer ifn-gamma responsiveness on a heterologous promoter .
double-stranded gire sequence , but not a scramble sequence , be specifically bind by nuclear protein from ifn-gamma treated u937 cell .
gel shift experiment far show that the stat1 alpha protein bind to the fc gamma ric gire in response to ifn-gamma treatment of u937 cell .
the fc gamma ric gire be homologous to the ifn-gamma activation sequence ( gas ) of the guanylate binding protein and to x box element of class ii mhc gene .
our result demonstrate that transcriptional regulation of the fc gamma ric gene by ifn-gamma involve the binding of stat1 alpha to a 17-bp gas homology in the proximal promoter .
relationship between glucocorticoid receptor and response to glucocorticoid therapy in ulcerative colitis .
purpose : to clarify the relationship between the glucocorticoid receptor and the effectiveness of glucocorticoid therapy in patient with ulcerative colitis , we investigate the number and apparent dissociation constant of glucocorticoid receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear leukocyte of patient with ulcerative colitis .
material and method : eleven patient with ulcerative colitis ( 5 who respond to intravenous glucocorticoid and 6 who do not ) and ten control subject be study .
the number and apparent dissociation constant of glucocorticoid receptor be measure use a whole-cell binding assay .
result be express a a median ( interquartile range ) .
result : the number of glucocorticoid receptor from the six nonresponders , five responder , and ten healthy control be 4922 ( range , 4484-5643 ) , 3413 ( range , 3183-4450 ) , and 3610 ( range , 2594-3979 ) bind sites/cell , respectively .
the apparent dissociation constant of the glucocorticoid receptor from the nonresponders , responder , and healthy control be 7.03 ( range , 5.66-10 ) , 4.27 ( range , 4-5.13 ) , and 6.18 ( range , 5.86-6.74 ) nm , respectively .
nonresponders have a significant increase both in the number of bind site and in the apparent dissociation constant compare with responder ( p = 0.045 ; p = 0.029 ) .
conclusion : the increase number and apparent dissociation constant of glucocorticoid receptor be closely associate with the effectiveness of glucocorticoid therapy .
the measurement of the number and apparent dissociation constant of glucocorticoid receptor may be useful in predict response to glucocorticoid .
tolerance to lipopolysaccharide involve mobilization of nuclear factor kappa b with predominance of p50 homodimers .
stimulation of the human monocytic cell line mono mac 6 with lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) lead to rapid and transient expression of cytokine like tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) .
when such cell be precultured for 2 day with a low dose of lp ( 20 ng/ml ) follow by stimulation with a high dose of lp ( 1 microgram/ml ) , expression of the tnf gene be minimal , i.e. the cell be tolerant .
in nuclear run-on analysis , such tolerant cell show only a low degree of transcription , indicate that tolerance operate at or upstream of the transcription level .
the cd14 lp receptor be , however , up-regulated ( not down-regulated ) in tolerant cell , and lp can , in fact , still lead to activation of tolerant cell a evidence by mobilization of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) .
resolution of the nf-kappa b complex in gel shift analysis show that the bind protein , mobilize in naive mono mac 6 cell , consist mainly of p50 -p65 heterodimers , while in tolerant cell , the p50 homodimer be predominant .
this increase in p50 homodimers coincide with an increase in p105 mrna , suggestive of a transcriptional up-regulation of p50 .
reporter gene analysis reveal that the nf-kappa b complex mobilize in tolerant cell be functionally inactive in that nf-kappa b -dependent luciferase construct contain the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat or the tnf 5'-region show only minimal transactivation after lp stimulation .
similar to mono mac 6 cell , primary blood monocyte , when precultured with a low dose of lp , also become tolerant and produce little tnf after lp stimulation .
the tolerant blood monocyte also up-regulate cd14 , and they mobilize nf-kappa b with a predominance of p50 homodimers .
take together , these result demonstrate that tolerance to lp be determine by post-receptor mechanism that involve an altered composition of the nf-kappa b complex .
human immunodeficiency virus contain heterologous enhancer/promoters be replication competent and exhibit different lymphocyte tropism .
the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) type 1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) contain bind site for nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) and the constitutively express transcription factor sp1 , both of which be highly conserve in hiv and simian immunodeficiency virus isolates .
to delineate the effect of these motif on the replicative capacity of hiv and to explore the possibility of extend the virus host range , know heterologous enhancer/promoters be insert into the hiv-1 ltr in place of the nf-kappa b and sp1 binding site .
the effect of these substitution on viral replication in transfected hela cell and on hiv infection of human peripheral blood lymphocyte or continuous t-leukemia cell line be evaluate .
hiv in which the nf- kappa b/sp1 enhancer plus the downstream tata element be replace with heterologous enhancer/promoters be also construct .
virus contain the human cytomegalovirus immediate-early enhancer exhibit infectious kinetics similar to that of wild-type hiv in activate human peripheral blood lymphocyte and aa2 cell but replicate less efficiently in h9 and cem cell .
these study indicate that heterologous enhancer element be capable of restore tat responsiveness to the hiv ltr in the context of direct reporter gene expression as well a in the production of infectious progeny virion .
selection of optimal kappa b/rel dna-binding motif : interaction of both subunit of nf-kappa b with dna be require for transcriptional activation .
analysis of the p50 and p65 subunit of the nf-kappa b transcription factor complex have reveal that both protein can interact with related dna sequence through either homo- or hetero dimer formation .
in addition , the product of the proto-oncogene c-rel can bind to similar dna motif by itself or a a heterodimer with p50 or p65 .
however , these study have use a limited number of known kappa b dna motif , and the question of the optimal dna sequence prefer by each homodimer have not be address .
use purify recombinant p50 , p65 , and c-rel protein , optimal dna-binding motif be select from a pool of random oligonucleotides .
alignment of the select sequence allow u to predict a consensus sequence for binding of the individual homodimeric rel-related protein , and dna-protein binding analysis of the select dna sequence reveal sequence specificity of the protein .
contrary to previous assumption , we observe that p65 homodimers can interact with a subset of dna sequence not recognize by p50 homodimers .
differential binding affinity be also obtain with p50- and c-rel- selected sequence .
use either a p50- or p65- selected kappa b motif , which display differential binding with respect to the other protein , little to no binding be observe with the heterodimeric nf-kappa b complex .
similarly , in transfection experiment in which the selective kappa b binding site be use to drive the expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct , the p65 - and p50 -selected motif be activate only in the presence of p65 and p50/65 ( a chimeric protein with the p50 dna binding domain and p65 activation domain ) expression vector , respectively , and neither demonstrate a significant response to stimulus that induce nf-kappa b activity .
these finding demonstrate that interaction of both subunit of the heterodimeric nf-kappa b complex with dna be require for dna binding and transcriptional activation and suggest that transcriptional activation mediate by the individual rel-related protein will differ dramatically , depend on the specific kappa b motif present .
expression of retinoid x receptor alpha be increase upon monocytic cell differentiation .
1 alpha,_25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( vd ) be a potent inducer of monocytic differentiation of both normal and leukemic cell .
it effect be mediate by it nuclear receptor ( vdr ) .
efficient gene activation require the heterodimerization of vdr with retinoid x receptor ( rxr ) .
in the present study use specific antibody , we analyze the expression of the rxr alpha protein in blood mononuclear cell from acute myeloid patient ( aml ) ( 10 case ) and from myelomonocytic cell line arrest at different stage of differentiation .
we observe that the rxr alpha expression increase during myelomonocytic differentiation , since the high level be find in aml sample and in myelomonocytic cell line have the high amount of monocytic precursor .
we also demonstrate that fresh leukemic cell , whatever their stage of differentiation , as well a myelomonocytic cell line , respond to vd by an increase in rxr alpha level .
combination of all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) and vd , in some case , increase this effect .
this response suggest the involvement of rxr alpha in monocytic differentiation upon vd treatment .
expression of nfat-family protein in normal human t cell .
nfat protein constitute a family of transcription factor involve in mediate signal transduction .
use a panel of specific antiserum in immunoprecipitation assay , we find that nfatp ( 135 kda ) be constitutively express in normal human t cell , while synthesis of nfatc ( predominant form of 86 kda ) be induce by ionomycin treatment .
nfat4/x be very weakly express in unstimulated cell , and it level do not increase upon treatment with activate agent .
nfat3 protein be not observe under any condition .
higher-molecular-weight specie of nfatc ( of 110 and 140 kda ) be also detect .
in addition , translation of nfatc mrna apparently initiate at two different aug codon , give rise to protein that differ in size by 36 amino acid .
additional size heterogeneity of both nfatc and nfatp result from phosphorylation .
in contrast to ionomycin treatment , exposure of cell to phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) plus anti-cd28 do not induce nfatc , indicate that under these condition , interleukin-2 synthesis by these cell be apparently independent of nfatc .
in dna binding assay , both pma plus anti-cd28 and pma plus ionomycin result in nuclear nfat .
surprisingly , the pma - ionomycin -induced synthesis of nfatc that be detect by immunoprecipitation be not mirror in the dna binding assay : nearly all of the activity be due to nfatp .
this be the first study of expression of all family member at the protein level in normal human t cell .
a novel interferon regulatory factor family transcription factor , icsat/pip/lsirf , that negatively regulate the activity of interferon-regulated gene .
we have isolate a novel cdna clone encoding interferon ( ifn ) consensus sequence-binding protein in adult t-cell leukemia cell line or activate t cell ( icsat ) ; this protein be the human homolog of the recently clone pip/lsirf .
icsat be structurally most closely related to the previously clone icsbp , a member of the ifn regulatory factor ( irf ) family of protein that bind to interferon consensus sequence ( ic ) find in many promoter of the ifn-regulated gene .
among t-cell line investigate , icsat be abundantly express in human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) -infected t cell .
when the htlv-1 tax gene be express or phorbol myristake acetate-a23187 stimulation be use , icsat expression be induce in jurkat cell which otherwise do not express icsat .
when the binding of icsat to four different ic be test , the relative difference in binding affinity for those ic be determine .
to study the functional role of icsat , we perform cotransfection experiment with the human embryonal carcinoma cell line n-tera2 .
icsat be demonstrate to possess repressive function over the gene activation induce by ifn stimulation or by irf-1 cotransfection .
such repressive function be similar to that see in irf-2 or icsbp .
however , we have find that icsat have a different repressive effect from that of irf-2 or icsbp in some ifn-responsive reporter construct .
these result suggest that a novel mechanism of gene regulation by " differential repression " be use by multiple member of repressor protein with different repressive effect on the ifn-responsive gene .
cortisol resistance in acquire immunodeficiency syndrome .
this study concern 9 iv drug abuser with acquire immunodeficiency syndrome ( aid ) who develop hypercortisolism without the clinical sign or metabolic consequence of hypercortisolism .
all patient be characterize by an addisonian picture ( weakness , weight loss , hypotension , hyponatremia , and intense mucocutaneous melanosis ) .
an acquired form of peripheral resistance to glucocorticoid be suspect .
we , therefore , examine glucocorticoid receptor characteristic on mononuclear leukocyte by measure [3h]dexamethasone binding and the effect of dexamethasone on [3h]thymidine incorporation , which be one of the effect of glucocorticoid receptor activation .
glucocorticoid receptor density be increase in aid patient with an addisonian picture ( group 1 ; 16.2 +/- 9.4 fmol/million cell ) compare to value in 12 aid patient without an addisonian picture ( group 2 ; 6.05 +/- 2.6 fmol/million cell ; p less than 0.01 ) and sex- and age-matched control ( 3.15 +/- 2.3 fmol/million cell ; p less than 0.01 ) .
the affinity of glucocorticoid receptor ( kd ) be strikingly decrease ( 9.36 +/- 3.44 nm in group 1 ; 3.2 +/- 1.5 nm in group 2 ; 2.0 +/- 0.8 nm in control ; p less than 0.01 ) .
[3h]thymidine incorporation be decrease dose-dependently by dexamethasone in control and patient ; the effect be significantly blunt ( p less than 0.05 ) in group 1 patient , which suggest that activation of glucocorticoid receptor be impaired a a result of the glucocorticoid receptor abnormality .
in conclusion , aid patient with hypercortisolism and clinical feature of peripheral resistance to glucocorticoid be characterize by abnormal glucocorticoid receptor on lymphocyte .
resistance to glucocorticoid imply a complex change in immune-endocrine function , which may be important in the course of immunodeficiency syndrome .
mechanism of antiandrogen action : conformational change of the receptor .
androgen receptor mrna be translate in vitro , and androgen- and antiandrogen- bound receptor complex be study use limited proteolytic digestion by trypsin .
partial proteolysis of androgen -bound receptor protein result in a 29-kda proteolysis-resisting fragment , whereas antiandrogen binding stabilise a 35-kda fragment .
both fragment contain the entire ligand binding domain , and the 35-kda fragment extend into the hinge region of the receptor .
several antiandrogens show agonistic property for a mutate androgen receptor ( lncap cell variant ) ; trypsin digestion of antiandrogen -bound mutate receptor also result in a 29-kda fragment .
our result point to an important difference between antiandrogens and antagonist of other steroid hormone receptor .
antiandrogens result in protection of both the hinge region and c-terminus of the androgen receptor agonist proteolytic attack , whereas other study show that antiestrogens and antiprogestagens expose the c-terminal end of the ligand binding domain of their respective receptor to protease .
difference in conformation of the hinge region distinguish androgen -bound from antiandrogen -bound receptor complex , which represent an important feature of antiandrogen action .
promoter sequence , exon : intron structure , and synteny of genetic location show that a chicken cytokine with t-cell proliferative activity be il2 and not il15 .
the gene encode a chicken cytokine with t-cell proliferative activity be clone , sequence , and map .
the result show that this cytokine be chicken il2 and not il15 .
the exon:intron structure of chicken il2 correspond almost exactly to those of mammalian il2s with the exception of exon 2 and intron 2 and 3 which be short .
chicken il2 contain five repeat of the " instability " motif attta in the 3'untranslated region in exon 4 .
it be a single-copy gene , with neither structural ( amino acid ) nor promoter sequence polymorphism identify .
analysis of the predict amino acid sequence suggest that overall protein structure be conserve , but the receptor binding site be not .
a number of potential regulatory sequence similar to those find in mammal have be identify in the promoter .
these include ( 5'-3' ) a composite nf-at/ " ap-1 " element , a cd28 response element , an ap-1 element , an nf-at element , and the ap-1 part of an ap-1/octamer composite element .
the mammalian nf-kappab and octamer binding site seem to be absent , although there be alternative potential nf-kappab and octamer-binding element in the chicken il2 promoter , in close proximity to their mammalian homologues .
sequence comparison also predict other potential transcription factor binding site a yet undescribed in mammalian il2 promoter .
a taq i polymorphism be identify which enable chicken il2 to be map to chromosome 4 , link to anx5 , with synteny with mouse chromosome 3 and human chromosome 4 .
this be the first non-mammalian cytokine gene to be map .
molecular cloning of slap-130 , an slp-76-associated substrate of the t cell antigen receptor-stimulated protein tyrosine kinase .
previous work have demonstrate that slp-76 , a grb2-associated tyrosine -phosphorylated protein , augment interleukin-2 promoter activity when overexpressed in the jurkat t cell line .
this activity require region of slp-76 that mediate protein-protein interaction with other molecule in t cell , suggest that slp-76 -associated protein also function to regulate signal transduction .
here we describe the molecular cloning of slap-130 , a slp-76 -associated phosphoprotein of 130 kda .
we demonstrate that slap-130 be hematopoietic cell-specific and associate with the sh2 domain of slp-76 .
additionally , we show that slap-130 be a substrate of the t cell antigen receptor-induced protein tyrosine kinase .
interestingly , we find that in contrast to slp-76 , overexpression of slap-130 diminish t cell antigen receptor -induced activation of the interleukin-2 promoter in jurkat t cell and interfere with the augmentation of interleukin-2 promoter activity see when slp-76 be overexpressed in these cell .
these data suggest that slp-76 recruit a negative regulator , slap-130 , as well a positive regulator of signal transduction in t cell .
preferential presentation of herpes simplex virus t-cell antigen by hla dqa1*0501/dqb1*0201 in comparison to hla dqa1*0201/dqb1*0201 .
the hla dqa1 locus be polymorphic .
haplotype contain hla dqa1*0501 , but not hla dqa1*0201 , together with hla dqb1*0201 be associate with grave 's disease and celiac sprue .
in this report , we demonstrate a functional correlate of dqa1 polymorphism .
t cell infiltrate a herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) lesion from a hla dq 2,7 individual yield a virus-specific cd4+ clone restrict by dq2 .
presentation of viral peptide and protein segregate with dqa1 allele , because cell line bear dqa1*0501/dqb1*0201 heterodimers present antigen in proliferation and cytotoxicity assay much more efficiently than cell line bear dqa1*0201/dqb1*0201 .
binding of viral peptide to cell line bear dqa1*0201 , in comparison to dqa1*0501 , be only moderately reduce and may not explain this effect .
truncation and substitution analysis of peptide binding and t-cell activation be perform to determine which viral peptide residue contact tcr might therefore be present in an altered conformation by dqa1*0201/dqb1*0201 .
residue 432 , 435 , 437 , 438 , and 440 ( position p1 , p4 , p6 , p7 , and p9 ) contribute to dq2 binding , whereas residue 431 , 433 , 434 , and 436 ( position p 1 , p2 , p3 , and p5 ) contribute to tcr contact .
differential presentation of peptide by hla dq2 heterodimers vary at the dqa1 locus may have relevance to host defense and the pathogenesis of hla dq2 -associated autoimmune disease .
ets1 transactivates the human gm-csf promoter in jurkat t cell stimulate with pma and ionomycin .
activation of t helper cell result in coordinate expression of a number of cytokine involve in differentiation , proliferation and activation of the haematopoietic system .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) be one such cytokine whose increase expression result partly from increase in transcription .
cis-acting element with nf kappa b , ap-1 and ets-like motif have be identify in the promoter region of the gm-csf gene , which be important for transcriptional activity follow pma and ionomycin stimulation .
a number of the ets family of transcription factor be express in t cell , include ets1 and elf1 .
here we describe the ability of these factor to interact with a site ( gm5 ) , located within the cle0 element , -47 to -40 upstream of the gm-csf transcription initiation site .
exogenous ets1 , but not elf1 , can transactivate gm-csf , through the gm5 site , in a pma / ionomycin dependent manner .
other unidentified ets-like factor present in jurkat cell be also capable of bind gm5 .
mutation of the core ets binding site from -ggaa- to -ggat- prevent the binding of ets-like factor with the exception of ets1 .
the gm-csf promoter , modify in this way to be ets1 specific , be fully responsive to pma / ionomycin induction , in addition to ets1 transactivation in the presence of pma and ionomycin .
together these data suggest that ets1 may be involve in mediate the increase gm-csf production associate with t cell activation .
intranuclear target delivery of functional nf-kappab by 70 kda heat shock protein .
the 70 kda heat shock protein ( hsp70 ) be a highly conserve , ubiquitous protein involve in chaperon protein to various cellular organelle .
here we show that when add exogenously to cell , hsp70 be readily import into both cytoplasmic and nuclear compartment in a cell-type-specific fashion .
we exploit this ability of hsp70 to deliver nf-kappab , a key transcriptional regulator of inflammatory response .
we demonstrate that a fusion protein compose of a c-terminal hsp70 peptide and the p50 subunit of nf-kappab be direct into the nucleus of cell , could bind dna specifically , and activate igkappa expression and tnfalpha production .
we therefore propose that hsp70 can be use a a vehicle for intracytoplasmic and intranuclear delivery of protein or dna to modulate gene expression and thereby control immune response .
glucocorticoid induce down-regulation of glucocorticoid receptor mrna expression in asthma .
although their precise mechanism of action remain to be elucidate , glucocorticoid represent the most effective therapy in the treatment of asthma .
interaction between the glucocorticoid receptor and the ap-1 complex have be show to regulate the transcription of some gene , include glucocorticoid receptor itself .
the aim of the present study be to compare the expression of mrna for glucocorticoid receptor in human blood monocyte obtain from seven unstable untreated asthmatic patient who be subsequently treat with high dos of parenteral corticosteroid ( methyl prednisolone 120 mg/day ) for 10 day .
mrna expression be identify after rna extraction use rnazol and analyse after reverse transcriptase , by polymerase chain reaction use a semiquantitative competitive hybridization assay .
all asthmatic patient show an improvement in their fev1 value after corticosteroid treatment ( per cent of predict value 68.28 +/- 4.93 versus 95.57 +/- 6.41 , p < 0.02 ) , and a significant decrease for glucocorticoid receptor mrna expression ( p < 0.02 ) be observe in their monocyte .
this be the first report of an ex vivo down-regulation for the glucocorticoid receptor mrna expression , follow corticosteroid treatment .
isolation of cdna clone for 42 different kruppel-related zinc finger protein express in the human monoblast cell line u-937 .
to study the complexity and structural characteristic of zinc finger protein express during human hematopoiesis and to isolate novel regulator of blood cell development , a degenerate oligonucleotide probe specific for a consensus zinc finger peptide domain be use to isolate 63 cdna clone for kruppel-related zinc finger gene from the human monoblast cell line u-937 .
by extensive nucleotide sequence and northern blot analysis , these cdna clone be find to originate from approximately 42 different gene ( hzf 1-42 ) of which only 8 have previously be describe .
northern blot analysis show that a majority of these gene be express at comparable level in u-937 and hela cell .
the large number of individual gene represent among the 63 clone and their apparent non-cell-type-specific expression suggest that the majority of the kruppel-related zinc finger gene be likely to be express in most human tissue .
in contrast , some of the gene display a restricted expression pattern , indicate that they represent potential regulator of monocyte differentiation or proliferation .
detailed structural analysis of the first 12 cdna ( hzf 1-10 ) and a partial characterization of hzf 11-42 reveal that a common feature of human kruppel-related zinc finger protein be the presence of tandem array of zinc finger range in number from 3 to over 20 that be preferentially located in the carboxy-terminal region of the protein .
in addition , several novel krab-containing zinc finger gene and a novel conserve sequence element be identify .
costimulation of camp and protein kinase c pathway inhibit the cd3 -dependent t cell activation and lead to a persistent expression of the ap-1 transcription factor .
the effect mediate by a combined stimulation of camp - and protein kinase c ( pkc ) -dependent pathway have be investigate in different cellular system , and it have be show that they may complement each other in activate cell proliferation and differentiation .
in this report , we show that upon the stimulation of both pathway t lymphocyte become refractory to activation via the cd3/t cell receptor ( tcr ) complex .
t cell preincubated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and dibutyryl camp ( bt2camp ) display a deficient proliferative ability in response to anti-cd3 mab stimulation , whereas lymphocyte treat individually with either bt2camp or pma respond comparably to untreated sample .
we detect an association between the reduce mitogenic response and low expression of both interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and the alpha chain ( cd25 ) of the il-2 receptor ( il-2r ) .
analysis of intracellular ca2+ mobilization suggest that the cd3 / tcr -dependent signal transduction be impaired in pma/bt2camp-treated cell .
remarkably , we observe that these sample display a persistent expression of the c-fos protooncogene , associate to an increase ap-1 dna-binding activity , whereas no variation of creb or nf-kb be detect .
neither bt2camp nor pma individually mediate these sustained effect , which therefore appear a a consequence of the interplay between both metabolic stimulus .
altogether , the data provide the evidence that both pathway complement each other in regulate gene expression and , conversely , downregulate the tcr transduction mechanism .
a regulatory element in the cd95 ( apo-1/fas ) ligand promoter be essential for responsiveness to tcr -mediated activation .
expression of the cd95 ( apo-1/fas ) ligand ( cd95l ) in activate t cell be a major cause of t cell activation-induced apoptosis .
to study the molecular mechanism of transcriptional control of cd95l expression in t cell , we investigate the human cd95l promoter in jurkat t cell .
deletion study reveal that the cd95l proximal promoter sequence from -220 to the transcription start site be essential for t cell stimulation-induced expression of cd95l .
in this study , we discover a novel regulatory element located at -120 of the cd95l promoter which contain dna binding site for sp-1 and a yet unknown inducible factor .
mutation analysis demonstrate that binding of the inducible factor to the -120 region be crucial for the biological function of the cd95l promoter upon t cell stimulation .
the dna sequence at -120 also contain two dna motif homologous to the bind site for nf-at .
nf-at do not directly bind to this element .
however , cotransfection study with an nf-at expression vector show that nf-at may confer a strong inducible activity to the cd95l promoter at this regulatory region .
our data also show that the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporin a down-regulates cd95l transcription by inhibit the function of this positive regulatory element
stable transfection of u937 cell with sense or antisense rxr-alpha cdna suggest a role for rxr-alpha in the control of monoblastic differentiation induce by retinoic acid and vitamin d .
although retinoic acid ( ra ) have be know for many year to be a modulate agent that play a role in generate both granulocyte and monocyte , the molecular mechanism underlie this role have not be define in the monoblast lineage .
in particular , the part play by the retinoid x receptor ( rxrs ) , which be member of the steroid/thyroid hormone nuclear receptor family , have not be explore .
in this study , therefore , the human monoblastic leukemia cell line u937 have be use a a model system to investigate the role of one of the rxrs , rxr-alpha , in monoblast differentiation .
rxr-alpha mrna be present in untreated u937 cell , and level increase after induction of differentiation with phorbol ester .
the same be find for rxr-beta mrna .
use plasmid contain sense or antisense rxr-alpha sequence under the control of an inducible promoter , we generate stably transfected cell line which express either increase or decrease level of rxr-alpha , respectively .
the sense cell line ( u alpha s and it clonal derivative alpha g2s ) show increase sensitivity to ra , while the antisense cell line ( u alpha a and it clonal derivative alpha b5a ) show decrease sensitivity to ra , a demonstrate by growth inhibition and by regulation of an ra -responsive reporter gene .
both u alpha a and alpha b5a also fail to respond to another modulate agent , 1 alpha,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol ( dhcc ) , but only u alpha s and not alpha g2s show an enhance response to dhcc .
the combination of ra and dhcc together inhibit growth of both sense and antisense cell line .
in addition , alpha g2s exhibit increase expression of cd11b and cd54 , while alpha b5a cell show increase expression of cd102 , suggest that rxr-alpha have a role in regulate expression of cell adhesion molecule in u937 cell .
these result demonstrate that rxr-alpha have a role in mediate growth inhibition and cell adhesion during myelomonocytic differentiation , and suggest that different specie of heterodimers involve rxr-alpha may control the acquisition of different feature of mature monocyte/macrophage function .
differential regulation of the janus kinase -stat pathway and biologic function of il-13 in primary human nk and t cell : a comparative study with il-4 .
il-13 , a cytokine similar to il-4 , be a regulator of human b cell and monocyte function .
biologic effect of il-13 on primary human nk and t cell have not be well define .
we demonstrate that , in primary nk cell , il-13 , but not il-4 , may induce low level of ifn-gamma secretion .
when nk cell be costimulated with il-13 and il-2 , il-13 generally result in two type of reactivity : il-13 synergized with il-2 to stimulate ifn-gamma production or it modestly inhibit il-2 - mediated ifn-gamma production .
in both type of donor , the effect of il-13 on il-2 -induced ifn-gamma production be in marked contrast to the strong inhibition see with il-4 in nk cell .
additionally , il-13 suppress il-2-induced nk cytolytic and proliferative activity although less efficiently than il-4 .
in t cell , il-13 inhibit anti-cd3 mab/il-2- or pha- mediated ifn-gamma production and enhance cytolytic potential .
furthermore , we demonstrate that il-13 , like il-4 , induce distinct stat6-dna binding complex and tyrosine phosphorylation of stat6 and janus kinase 3 ( jak3 ) in nk and t cell .
we observe that ab direct against unique domain of stat6 have differential effect on complex in t cell but not in nk cell , suggest different stat6 isoforms .
these finding show that il-13 and il-4 have the ability to regulate nk and t cell activation and that il- 13 be a potent regulator of stat6 and jak3 in these cell type .
transcriptional activation of rna polymerase iii-dependent gene by the human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 tax protein .
the human t-cell leukemia virus -encoded tax protein be a potent activator of many viral and cellular gene transcribe by rna polymerase ii .
we find that both chromatin and cell extract derive from human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 -infected human t lymphocyte support high level of 5 rrna and trna gene transcription than chromatin or extract from uninfected t lymphocyte .
the viral protein tax be likely responsible for this high level of class ii gene transcription , a purify tax be find to stimulate both gene when add to the uninfected cell extract or in reconstitute system .
both limiting-component transcription assay and dna binding assay identify the class iii gene transcription factor tfiiib a the principle target of tax activity .
surprisingly , we find that tax increase the effective concentration of active tfiiib molecule .
these data suggest that tax stimulate rna polymerase iii-dependent gene expression by accelerate the rate and/or extent of transcription initiation complex assembly .
expression of the chemokine receptor blr2/ebi1 be specifically transactivated by epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 .
in our attempt to identify chemokine receptor that be related to burkitt 's lymphoma receptor 1 ( blr1 ) and be express in activate lymphocyte we use rt-pcr result in the isolation of a cdna encode a seven transmembrane receptor term blr2 .
the protein show significant sequence similarity to the family of g-protein coupled chemokine receptor and turn out to be identical to the recently describe receptor ebi1 .
northern blot analysis reveal that blr2 mrna could be highly stimulate in mitogen- and anti-cd3- treated peripheral blood lymphocyte .
blr2 -specific mrna could be detect in all epstein-barr virus positive b cell line .
we show that transcription of the blr2 gene could be specifically induce in epstein-barr virus negative bl 41 cell via estrogen-mediated activation of epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 , a key regulator of viral and cellular gene in immortalize b cell .
our data suggest an involvement of blr2 in the regulation of migration in activate lymphocyte and in viral pathogenesis .
engagement of the lewis x antigen ( cd15 ) result in monocyte activation .
we previously report that monocyte adhesion to tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) -treated endothelial cell increase expression of tissue factor and cd36 on monocyte .
use immunological cross-linking to mimic receptor engagement by natural ligand , we now show that cd15 ( lewis x ) , a monocyte counter-receptor for endothelial selectins may participate in this response .
we use cytokine production a a readout for monocyte activation and find that cd15 cross-linking induce tnf-alpha release from peripheral blood monocyte and cell from the monocytic cell line mm6 .
quantitative reverse transcriptase -polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) show an increase in steady-state tnf-alpha mrna after 3 to 4 hour of cross-linking .
cd15 cross-linking also concomitantly increase interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) mrna , while no apparent change be observe in the level of beta-actin mrna , indicate specificity .
to examine transcriptional regulation of cytokine gene by cd15 engagement , a cat plasmid reporter construct contain il-1 beta promoter/enhancer sequence be introduce into mm6 .
subsequent cross-linking of cd15 increase cat activity .
cd15 engagement by monoclonal antibody also attenuate il-1 beta transcript degradation , demonstrate that signaling via cd15 also have posttranscriptional effect .
nuclear extract of anti- cd15 cross-linked cell demonstrate enhance level of the transcriptional factor activator protein-1 , minimally change nuclear factor-kappa b , and do not affect sv40 promoter specific protein-1 .
we conclude that engagement of cd15 on monocyte result in monocyte activation .
in addition to it well-recognized adhesive role , cd15 may function a an important signal molecule capable of initiate proinflammatory event in monocyte that come into contact with activate endothelium .
model of lineage switching in hematopoietic development : a new myeloid-committed eosinophil cell line ( yj ) demonstrate trilineage potential .
a new human leukemia cell line with an eosinophilic phenotype , designate yj , be establish from the peripheral blood cell of a patient with chronic myelomonocytic leukemia ( cmmol ) with eosinophilia .
when culture in rpmi 1640 medium contain 10 % fetal bovine serum , most yj cell be myeloblastoid with a small number of the cell have eosinophilic granule .
cell surface marker in the yj cell be positive for cd33 and be negative for cd34 , cd16 and cd23 .
the eosinophilic characteristic of yj cell be confirm by histochemical staining with fast-green/neutral-red and by the expression of mrna for eosinophil-associated granule protein , eosinophil cationic protein ( ecp ) , eosinophil-derived neurotoxin ( edn ) , eosinophil peroxidase ( epo ) , and major basic protein ( mbp ) , and for the charcot-leyden crystal ( clc ) protein .
the yj cell could be induce towards monocytic differentiation by stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) .
the monocytic characteristic of yj cell treat with pma be confirm by morphological analysis with alpha-naphthyl butyrate esterase staining , by cd14 expression , and by increase expression of egr-1 mrna .
furthermore , yj cell could be differentiate towards the neutrophil lineage by stimulation with all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) .
yj cell treat in vitro with 2 microm ra differentiate into metamyelocytes and band neutrophil , and increase the number of nitroblue tetrazolium ( nbt ) -positive cell and increase gp91phox mrna expression .
thus , the yj cell line exhibit eosinophilic characteristic , but be able to differentiate to the monocytic or neutrophilic lineage in response to pma or ra , respectively .
the expression of gene for transcription factor involve in myeloid differentiation be evaluate by northern blot analysis .
increase expression of egr-1 be observe with macrophage differentiation .
in contrast , increase expression of c/ebpbeta and mzf-1 mrna occur with neutrophilic differentiation .
the yj cell line should be useful for elucidate the molecular mechanism govern lineage switching from the eosinophil to monocytic or neutrophil lineage .
induction of ciita and modification of in vivo hla-dr promoter occupancy in normal thymic epithelial cell treat with ifn-gamma : similarity and distinction with respect to hla-dr-constitutive b cell .
in this study , the ifn-gamma induction of mhc class ii gene expression in primary culture of thymic epithelial cell ( tec ) be analyze .
this cellular system offer the advantage that mhc class ii induction be study in a " physiologic " cell lineage that , a a result of this expression within the thymus , be think to participate to the selection and maturation of the t cell .
it be find that the mhc class ii gene expression be associate with the de novo transcription of the gene encode the ciita trans-activator , a crucial mhc class ii gene regulatory factor .
furthermore , the anatomy of interaction between the mhc class ii dra promoter and corresponding bind factor be analyze by in vivo dnase i footprint .
it be find that treatment with ifn-gamma induce change in the occupancy of the dra gene regulatory sequence by nuclear factor .
the result occupancy display strong similarity with the one observe in the mhc class ii-constitutive b cell , represent by both the burkitt lymphoma line raji and normal tonsil-_derived b cell .
however , some peculiar difference be observe between the tec , either ifn-gamma -induced or not , and the constitutive b cell .
these result suggest that both common mechanism , such a the one mediate by the ciita trans-activator , and distinct tissue-specific constraint contribute to the transcriptional control of constitutive and ifn-gamma -induced mhc class ii gene expression .
membrane-associated lymphotoxin on natural killer cell activate endothelial cell via an nf-kappab -dependent pathway .
background : inhibition of complement in small animal model of xenotransplantation have demonstrate graft infiltration with natural killer ( nk ) cell and monocyte associate with endothelial cell ( ec ) activation .
we have previously demonstrate that human nk cell activate porcine ec in vitro , which result in adhesion molecule expression and cytokine secretion .
in this study , we use the nk cell line nk92 to define the molecular and cellular basis of nk cell-mediated ec activation .
method : ec be transfected with either reporter construct contain the luciferase gene drive either by e-selectin or interleukin ( il ) -8 promoter or a synthetic nf-kappab -dependent promoter .
in addition , a dominant-negative mutant tumor necrosis factor receptor i ( tnfri ) expression vector be co-transfected in inhibition study .
forty-eight hour after transfection , ec be stimulate with nk cell or nk cell membrane extract for 7 hr and activation be measure by a luciferase assay .
result : co-culture of nk cell with transfected ec enhance e-selectin , il-8 , and nf-kappab -dependent promoter activity .
nk cell membrane extract retain the capacity to activate ec and induce nuclear translocation of nf-kappab ( p50 and p65 ) .
western blotting of nk cell and membrane extract detect the presence of lymphotoxin-alpha ( ltalpha ) but not tumor necrosis factor-alpha .
furthermore , ltalpha be secrete in nk: ec co- culture .
co-transfection with dominant-negative mutant tnfri inhibit ec activation by nk cell membrane extract and by nk cell by 80 % and 47 % , respectively .
the same pattern of inhibition be observe use anti-human lt serum .
conclusion : human nk cell membrane-bound lt signal across specie via tnfri , lead to nf-kappab nuclear translocation and transcription of e-selectin and il-8 , which result in ec activation .
the discrepancy in the degree of inhibition by membrane extract and nk cell with mutant tnfri suggest that additional pathway be utilize by nk cell to activate ec
the epstein-barr virus oncogene product latent membrane protein 1 engage the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated death domain protein to mediate b lymphocyte growth transformation and activate nf-kappab .
the epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein 1 ( lmp1 ) be essential for the transformation of b lymphocyte into lymphoblastoid cell line .
previous data be consistent with a model that lmp1 be a constitutively activate receptor that transduce signal for transformation through it carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic tail .
one transformation effector site ( tes1 ) , located within the membrane proximal 45 residue of the cytoplasmic tail , constitutively engage tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor .
signal from tes1 be sufficient to drive initial proliferation of infected rest b lymphocyte , but most lymphoblastoid cell infect with a virus that do not express the 155 residue beyond tes1 fail to grow a long-term cell line .
we now find that mutate two tyrosine to an isoleucine at the carboxyl end of the cytoplasmic tail cripple the ability of ebv to cause lymphoblastoid cell outgrowth , thereby mark a second transformation effector site , tes2 .
a yeast two-hybrid screen identify tes2 interacting protein , include the tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated death domain protein ( tradd ) .
tradd be the only protein that interact with wild-type tes2 and not with isoleucine -mutated tes2 .
tradd associate with wild-type lmp1 but not with isoleucine -mutated lmp1 in mammalian cell , and tradd constitutively associate with lmp1 in ebv -transformed cell .
in transfection assay , tradd and tes2 synergistically mediate high-level nf-kappab activation .
these result indicate that lmp1 appropriate tradd to enable efficient long-term lymphoblastoid cell outgrowth .
high-level nf-kappab activation also appear to be a critical component of long-term outgrowth .
protein kinase c activation and protooncogene expression in differentiation/retrodifferentiation of human u-937 leukemia cell .
human u-937 leukemia cell differentiate along the monocytic lineage follow 3-day exposure to 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) .
this induction of differentiation be accompany by adherence and loss of proliferation , as well a expression/repression of differentiation-associated gene .
long term culture of tpa -differentiated u-937 cell in the absence of phorbol ester for 32-36 day result in a process of retrodifferentiation .
the retrodifferentiated cell detach from the substrate and reinitiated proliferation .
other cellular parameter , such a glycosidase activity , cytokine release , and filament expression , return to level similar to that observe in uninduced cell .
treatment of u-937 cell with tpa result in a rapid translocation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) from the cytosol to cell membrane fraction within 2-8 min .
increase level of membrane-associated pkc activity persist until 17-29 day .
however , long period of incubation be associate with a return to the distribution of pkc in control cell .
activation of pkc have be implicate in the regulation of certain immediate early response gene , and in the present study , tpa rapidly induce c-fos and c-jun gene expression .
level of c-fos and c-jun transcript remain elevated during period of pkc activation and also return to level observe in control cell by 30-36 day , when the cell enter retrodifferentiation .
staurosporine , a nonspecific inhibitor of pkc , partially block tpa -induced adherence and growth inhibition and concomitantly prevent tpa-induced c-fos and c-jun gene expression .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
stimulation of human lymphocyte proliferation and cd40 antigen expression by phosphorothioate oligonucleotides complementary to hepatitis b virus genome .
we have study the proliferation and cd40 antigen expression of lymphocyte , and the cytotoxicity to monocyte , of antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides complementary to the sp ii promoter of hbv mrna ( sequence i ) and the x gene ( sequence ii ) in patient with chronic hepatitis b .
the oligo sequence i stimulate proliferation of both t and , to a less extent , b cell .
the percentage of cell express cd40 in t and b cell co-cultures increase from 4.2 % to 13.8 % after oligo stimulation in patient , while it increase form 4.7 % to 48.6 % in healthy control .
the sense sequence ( sequence iii ) of the x gene also enhance the expression of cd40 antigen in patient with hepatitis b .
the proportion of cd40 cell ( 26 % ) in a rest b-cell preparation from hepatitis b patient decrease to zero after a 5-day culture with sequence i , but igg level in the culture supernatant increase .
the cytotoxic property of monocyte be not influence by the oligos .
these finding indicate that antisense oligos against hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) have mitogenic effect on the proliferation of human lymphocyte in a non-specific manner and may activate t cell to express cd40 antigen .
cross-linking of cd44 on rheumatoid synovial cell up-regulates vcam-1 .
cd44 be a ubiquitous molecule also know a hyaluronic acid or homing receptor .
however , the cellular function and it role in inflammation , for example , rheumatoid synovitis , be currently unknown .
in this study , we propose a novel function for cd44 .
use synovial cell from rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) patient , we demonstrate that cd44 cross-linking and bind to hyaluronan augment vcam-1 expression and subsequently vcam-1 -mediated cell adhesion .
briefly , we find that 1 ) rheumatoid synovial cell highly express cd44 ; 2 ) cross-linking of cd44 markedly but transiently augment vcam-1 expression and it mrna transcription much more than do il-1beta and tnf-alpha ; 3 ) hyaluronan , especially when fragmented , also up-regulated vcam-1 ; 4 ) cd44 activate the transcription factor ap-1 ; and 5 ) the integrin -dependent adhesive function of ra synovial cell to t cell be also amplify by cd44 cross-linking .
these result indicate that the adhesion of ra synovial cell to matrix such a hyaluronic acid through cd44 could up-regulate vcam-1 expression and vcam-1 -mediated adhesion to t cell , which might in turn cause activation of t cell and synovial cell in ra synovitis .
we therefore propose that such cross-talking among distinct adhesion molecule may be involve in the pathogenesis of inflammation , include ra synovitis .
glucocorticoid receptor in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell in relation to age and to sport activity .
glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) be ubiquitous molecule and be present also in the hippocampus and in several other nervous and immune tissue .
peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmcs ) be a good model for study of gr in human .
glucocorticoid be important for maintain cellular and humoral homeostasis and be key mediator of neuroendocrine-immune regulatory interaction .
the increase of cortisol be immunosuppressive and reduce gr concentration both in nervous and immune system .
variation of glucocorticoid in healthy aged subject and athlete have be show .
prompt by these result , we have investigate in man a possible relationship between gr binding capacity in the pbmcs and age , in relation also to plasma testosterone and cortisol .
the same parameter have be examine in a group of soccer player for comparison with the sedentary group .
gr binding capacity be high in young subject than in old one , and low in the group of athlete than in the young and old sedentary subject .
in the sedentary group a negative correlation be present between gr binding capacity and age .
plasma cortisol be high and testosterone low in the athlete ; they be negatively correlate in athlete and positively correlate in the sedentary subject .
the result for athlete agree with their low anabolic/catabolic balance .
the mechanism of reduce gr level in relation to age and sport activity could involve a loss or an involution of receptor synthesis .
however other possibility , such a altered distribution of lymphocyte subpopulation with different receptor concentration and with different cytokine production , can not be exclude .
several neuroendocrine-immune interaction could be responsible for reduce gr level with age and sport activity in man .
identification of a region which direct the monocytic activity of the colony-stimulating factor 1 ( macrophage colony-stimulating factor ) receptor promoter and bind pebp2/cbf ( aml1 ) .
the receptor for the macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( or colony-stimulating factor 1 [ csf-1 ] ) be express from different promoter in monocytic cell and placental trophoblast .
we have demonstrate that the monocyte-specific expression of the csf-1 receptor be regulate at the level of transcription by a tissue-specific promoter whose activity be stimulate by the monocyte/b-cell-specific transcription factor pu.1 ( d.-e.zhang , c.j.hetherington , h.-m.chen , and d.g.tenen , mol .cell. biol. 14 : 373-381 , 1994 ) .
here we report that the tissue specificity of this promoter be also mediate by sequence in a region ii ( bp -88 to -_59 ) , which lie 10 bp upstream from the pu.1 -binding site .
when analyze by dnase footprinting , region ii be protect preferentially in monocytic cell .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay confirm that region ii interact specifically with nuclear protein from monocytic cell .
two gel shift complex ( mono a and mono b ) be form with separate sequence element within this region .
competition and supershift experiment indicate that mono b contain a member of the polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein 2/core-binding factor ( pebp2/cbf ) family , which include the aml1 gene product , while mono a be a distinct complex preferentially express in monocytic cell .
promoter construct with mutation in these sequence element be no longer express specifically in monocyte .
furthermore , multimerized region ii sequence element enhance the activity of a heterologous thymidine kinase promoter in monocytic cell but not other cell type test .
these result indicate that the monocyte/b-cell-specific transcription factor pu.1 and the mono a and mono b protein complex act in concert to regulate monocyte-specific transcription of the csf-1 receptor .
chimeric oncoprotein e2a-pbx1 induce apoptosis of hematopoietic cell by a p53 -independent mechanism that be suppress by bcl-2 .
the chimeric oncoprotein e2a-pbx1 result from fusion of the e2a and pbx1 gene follow t(1;19) chromosomal translocation in b cell precursor acute leukemia .
experimentally b cell progenitor do not tolerate constitutive expression of e2a-pbx1 which contrast with transformation of several other cell type follow it stable expression both in vitro and in vivo .
to far investigate the effect of e2a-pbx1 on the b cell progenitor , we conditionally express e2a-pbx1 under control of a metal response element in hematopoietic precursor cell line in vitro .
inducible expression of e2a-pbx1 result in cell death with the morphologic and molecular feature of apoptosis .
a structure-function analysis demonstrate that induction of apoptosis be not a dominant-negative effect of the e2a moiety but , rather , require the dna-binding homeodomain of pbx1 .
e2a- pbx1 -induced apoptosis proceed through a bcl2 -responsive checkpoint eventuating in parp inactivation but do require p53 .
constitutive expression of e2a- pbx1 do not induce apoptosis or continued cycling of rat-1 fibroblast in low serum condition .
these study demonstrate that e2a- pbx1 initiate program cell death of hematopoietic precursers by a mechanism that require it chimeric transcriptional property , but , unlike other nuclear oncoproteins , be independent of p53 .
glucocorticoid and the immune function in the human immunodeficiency virus infection : a study in hypercortisolemic and cortisol-resistant patient .
immunological study in human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -positive patient suggest that the disease progression be accompany by a defective production of type 1 cytokine ( interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and il-12 ] , an increase production of type 2 cytokine ( il-4 , il-6 , and il-10 ) , and an increase production of ige .
hiv infection be also associate with activation of the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal axis function and increase plasma and urinary cortisol concentration .
a cortisol be involve in the physiological regulation of cytokine , a study be conduct to examine cytokine pattern in two group of hypercortisolemic patient , one with normal sensitivity to glucocorticoid and the other with glucocorticoid resistance .
ten hiv-infected patient with normal receptor affinity to glucocorticoid ( aids-c ) , 10 hiv-infected patient with low receptor affinity to glucocorticoid ( aids-gr ) , and 20 healthy subject be study .
receptor characteristic of peripheral blood mononuclear cell be evaluate by [3h]dexamethasone binding .
serum cortisol and urinary free cortisol be measure by ria .
serum acth and ige be measure by immunoradiometric assay , and il-2 , il-4 , and il-10 cytokine and interferon-gamma be measure by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay .
aids-c patient show low il-2 and high il-4 , il-10 , and ige concentratios ; conversely , aids-gr patient show high il-2 and low il-4 and ige concentration .
thus , in hiv infection , elevated cortisol level suppress cell-mediated immunity and stimulate humoral immunity , whereas this response be not detect in cortisol -resistant patient .
these finding indicate that cortisol and it receptor be critically involve in the regulation of immune function in hiv infection .
cooperation of bind site for stat6 and nf kappa b/rel in the il-4 -induced up-regulation of the human ige germline promoter .
ig heavy chain class switching be direct by cytokine induce transcription from unrearranged ch gene .
subsequently , such prim cell can undergo switch recombination to express the select new isotype .
in the case of ige class switching , il-4 activate the ige germline promoter by induce the interaction of the transcription factor stat6 ( il-4stat ) with a responsive dna element in the proximal region of the promoter .
this study describe the characterization of two additional cis-acting element that interact with member of the nf kappa b/rel transcription factor family in an il-4 -independent fashion .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay show that the nucleoprotein complex form on the upstream site ( nf kappa b1 ) contain the classical p50/p65 heterodimer .
the complex on the proximal site ( nf kappa b2 ) appear to be compose of p50 and relb .
ige germline promoter reporter gene construct carry point mutation in the nf kappa b2 site be largely unresponsive to il-4 stimulation in transient transfection experiment , while plasmid with similar mutation in the nf kappa b1 site respond to cytokine stimulation well than the wild-type promoter .
the nf kappa b2 effect be dependent on the presence of the stat6 binding site , demonstrate that the nf kappa b2 motif be necessary but not sufficient for mediate cytokine up-regulation .
in addition , the combination of a nf kappa b/rel binding site and the stat6 response element confer il-4 inducibility to a heterologous minimal promoter , while the individual site have no effect .
the available data suggest that the nf kappa b2 nucleoprotein complex may cooperate with dna-bound stat6 to achieve il-4 -dependent activation of the human ige germline gene .
differentiation of t-helper lymphocyte : selective regulation by member of the stat family of transcription factor .
interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) and interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) control the differentiation of t-helper cell .
here we summarize study which investigate the mechanism by which these cytokine selectively reprogramme gene expression in t-lymphocytes .
cytokine stimulation lead to the phosphorylation of specific tyrosine residue within the intracellular domain of the corresponding cytokine receptor .
these phosphotyrosines serve a docking site for latent , cytoplasmic transcription factor know a signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein .
receptor/stat interaction be mediate by the src homology 2 ( sh2 ) domain of the corresponding stat protein .
although stat bind to the intracellular domain of the cytokine receptor strongly depend on the phosphotyrosine residue , the recruitment of a specific stat protein be dictate by amino acid residue c-terminal to the phosphotyrosine .
specific docking site within individual cytokine receptor have be identify for almost all stat protein .
the direct coupling between cytokine receptor and transcription factor help to explain how different cytokine elicit distinct pattern of gene expression .
cdna cloning of a ngfi-b/nur77-related transcription factor from an apoptotic human t cell line .
a human t lymphoid cell line , peer , die by apoptosis in the presence of pma and calcium ionophore .
a new gene , tinur , be clone from apoptotic peer cell .
the expression of the tinur gene be induce within 1 h after the cross-linking of the t cell ag receptor complex .
tinur belong to the ngfi-b/nur77 family of the steroid receptor superfamily and be an orphan receptor .
tinur bind to the same dna sequence a ngfi-b/nur77 .
we also propose that the ngfi-b/nur77 family can be classify into two subtypes .
inducible expression and phosphorylation of coactivator bob.1/obf.1 in t cell [ see comment ]
bob.1/obf.1 be a transcriptional coactivator that be constitutively express in b cell and interact with the oct1 and oct2 transcription factor .
upon activation of jurkat t cell and primary murine thymocytes with phorbol ester and ionomycin , bob.1/obf.1 expression and transactivation function be induce .
bob.1/obf.1 be phosphorylated at ser184 both in vivo and in vitro , and this modification be require for inducible activation .
mutation of ser184 also diminish transactivation function in b cell , suggest that the activate phosphorylation that be inducible in t cell be constitutively present in b cell .
thus , bob.1/obf.1 be a transcriptional coactivator that be critically regulate by posttranslational modification to mediate cell type-specific gene expression .
molecular mechanism of anoxia/reoxygenation-induced neutrophil adherence to culture endothelial cell .
the objective of this study be to ( 1 ) determine the time course of neutrophil adhesion to monolayers of human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvecs ) that be expose to 60 minute of anoxia follow by 30 to 600 minute of reoxygenation and ( 2 ) define the mechanism responsible for both the early ( minute ) and late ( hour ) hyperadhesivity of postanoxic huvecs to human neutrophil .
the result clearly demonstrate that anoxia /reoxygenation ( a/r ) lead to a biphasic increase in neutrophil adhesion to huvecs , with peak response occur at 30 minute ( phase 1 ) and 240 minute ( phase 2 ) after reoxygenation .
oxypurinol and catalase inhibit phase-1 adhesion , suggest a role for xanthine oxidase and h2o2 .
in comparison , platelet activating factor ( paf ) contribute to both phase of neutrophil adhesion .
anti-intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) and anti-p-selectin antibody ( monoclonal antibody [ mabs ] ) attenuate phase-1 neutrophil adhesion , consistent with role for constitutively express icam-1 and enhance surface expression of preformed p-selectin .
phase-2 neutrophil adhesion be attenuate by an anti-e-selectin mab , indicate a dominant role of this adhesion molecule in the late phase response .
pretreatment with actinomycin d and cycloheximide or with compete ds-oligonucleotides contain the nuclear factor-kappa b or activator protein-1 cognate dna sequence significantly attenuate phase-2 response , suggest a role for de novo macromolecule synthesis .
surface expression of icam-1 , p-selectin , and e-selectin on huvecs correlate with the phase -1 and -2 neutrophil adhesion response .
collectively , these finding indicate that a/r elicit a two-phase neutrophil-endothelial cell adhesion response that involve transcription-independent and transcription-dependent surface expression of different endothelial cell adhesion molecule .
inefficient termination of antigen response in nf-atp -deficient mouse .
in order to elucidate the role of nf-atp , one of the most prominent member of family of nf-at transcription factor in peripheral t lymphocyte , in t cell activation and differentiation we create nf-atp -deficient mouse by gene target .
such nf-atp -/- mouse be born and appear to develop a normal immune system .
apart from clear-cut defect in the synthesis of mrna for th2-type lymphokine , such a il-4 , il-5 , il-10 and il-13 , in primary and secondary stimulation of spleen cell in vitro , of a distinct impaired deletion of v beta 11+/cd4+ t lymphocyte from these mouse be detect after superantigen injection .
moreover , nf-atp -/- mouse old than 6 week show an 2-5 fold increase in number of lymphocyte .
this be correlate with an increase expression of activation marker cd44 and cd69 and decrease expression of cd62 .
retinoic acid -induced modulation of il-2 mrna production and il-2 receptor expression on t cell .
background : retinoic acid ( ra ) have important immune-modulating effect on both t and b cell function .
our laboratory have show that ra can enhance in vitro polyclonal b cell immunoglobulin ( ig ) response .
investigate cytokine know to affect b cell differentiation , we have recently show that il-6 production be augment by ra .
in the present study we have examine the immune modulating effect of ra on il-2 mrna , another important cytokine for b cell immunoglobulin production , the expression of il-2 receptor on t cell , and the ra nuclear receptor .
method : purify t cell be obtain from adenoidal tissue , and incubate with ra ( 10(-7) m ) or dmso solvent/media control for 0 , 6-8 , and 24 h .
total mrna be extract from t cell , and use rt-pcr , change in the production of il-2 and ra receptor ( rar ) - alpha , beta , gamma mrna be determine .
the effect of ra on il-2-alpha receptor expression be determine by flow cytometry on t cell .
conclusion : these study suggest that ra can augment il-2 mrna production by t cell with a possible paracrine effect on il-2r-alpha expression .
these change appear to be mediate by rar-alpha .
thus , il-2 may be another important cytokine modulate by ra in the immune response .
hemoglobin switching in human be accompany by change in the ratio of the transcription factor , gata-1 and sp1 .
background : understand the mechanism of developmental regulation of hemoglobin switching have scientific as well a clinical relevance because of the influence of fetal hemoglobin ( hbf ) production in adulthood on the clinical manifestation of thalassemia and sickle cell anemia .
we have previously find that the normal developmental pattern of globin gene expression be recapitulate in an experimental system of primary culture that support differentiation of erythroid progenitor .
we far find that high activity of the transcriptional activator , gata-1 and sp1 , be associate with normal adult erythroid differentiation .
material and method : in the present work , we have study , the activity of gata-1 and sp1 during differentiation of culture erythroid progenitor derive from cord blood and from fetal liver , as well a from beta zero- thalassemia patient .
result : the result show high gata-1 binding activity and very low sp1 activity in the fetal liver culture .
this pattern be in contrast to culture derive from normal adult peripheral blood , in which both gata-1 and sp1 activity be high .
cord blood culture show an additive combination of " adult " and " fetal " pattern .
the progenitor derive from a beta zero- thalassemia patient with high hbf production show " fetal " pattern .
on the other hand , in culture of 2 beta zero- thalassemia patient without high hbf , " adult " pattern be observe .
conclusion : in the present work , we show that human fetal and adult erythroid progenitor be distinct in their transcription factor , and that the commitment to fetal or adult program occur at a very early differentiation stage .
our study also demonstrate that under anemic stress , recruitment of fetal progenitor may occur in adulthood .
human neutrophil express gh-n gene transcript and the pituitary transcription factor pit-1b .
since gh stimulate the development and function of granulocyte , we investigate the expression of gh in granulocyte subset .
by immunocytochemistry , 25 +/- 7 % of the human neutrophil be show to express immunoreactive gh , whereas eosinophil be negative .
reverse transcription ( rt ) -pcr analysis demonstrate gh mrna in neutrophil .
restriction analysis reveal that neutrophil express the gh-n gene but not the gh-v gene .
furthermore , we demonstrate by western blot analysis that neutrophil express an alternatively splice variant of the pituitary transcription factor pit-1 , designate pit-1b .
[ molecular mechanism of age-related lymphocyte dysfunction ]
aging be classically accompany by a dysregulation of the immunologic machinery .
a a consequence , the immune response develop in senescent organism be usually inappropriate , often inefficient , sometimes aberrant , and potentially detrimental .
the age-associated immune dysfunction may be implicate to some degree in the extreme susceptibility of the elderly to infection and neoplasia and may even participate in various aspect of senescence .
the current understanding of the molecular mechanism underlie immunosenescence be still fragmentary .
the most extensively study phenomenon be the progressive decline in the proliferative capacity of t lymphocyte with aging .
the loss of proliferative potential in response to antigenic challenge be a characteristic feature of immune senescence .
it be directly implicate in the emergence of the age-related immune deficiency .
the purpose of this review be to show how the accumulation of various biochemical lesion with advance age lead to the failure of a critical cell function , namely the activation-induced lymphocyte proliferation .
the biochemical modification responsible for the defect in transduction and execution of the proliferative signal be analyze a a function of age .
the multiple alteration observe on the various biochemical pathway may appear a a consequence of a unique deleterious mechanism more fundamentally related to the process of senescence such a the inability to cope with oxidative stress .
the catalytic domain of pp56(lck) , but not it regulatory domain , be sufficient for induce il-2 production .
the lymphoid src kinase pp56(lck) have be show to be essential for the induction of different t lymphocyte response , include cd4 -mediated enhancement of ag-induced t cell activation , early t cell differentiation , induction of il-2 production , and cytotoxicity .
it be assume that pp56(lck) act on these process by phosphorylating substrate .
however , it have be recently report that the nh2 regulatory domain be sufficient to mediate cd4 accessory function .
in this report we address the contribution of the regulatory and catalytic domain of pp56(lck) to another function of this enzyme independent of cd4 : tcr-induced il-2 production .
two pp56(lck) mutant lack either the entire catalytic domain or the entire nh2 regulatory domain be generate , and their ability to trigger transactivation of the tcr-regulated nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) region of the il-2 promoter be compare .
only the catalytic , but not the nh2 regulatory , domain of pp56(lck) be able to induce nf-at region transactivation on it own and to cooperate with other intracellular signal to trigger this response .
moreover , the catalytic domain of pp56(lck) be able to induce il-2 cytokine production to an extent similar to that of wild-type pp56(lck) .
we conclude that different domain of the pp56(lck) molecule contribute to regulate distinct biologic function .
in fact , while the nh2 regulatory domain be sufficient to mediate cd4 accessory function , we show here that the catalytic domain of pp56(lck) be sufficient for induction of il-2 production , mimic tcr ligation .
the human gene encode the lectin-type oxidize ldl receptor ( olr1 ) be a novel member of the natural killer gene complex with a unique expression profile .
lox-1 be an endothelial receptor for oxidize low-density lipoprotein that play essential role in atherogenesis .
lox-1 have the high homology with c-type lectin receptor express on natural killer cell .
in the present study , we clone and characterize the human lox-1 gene ( hgmw-approved symbol olr1 ) .
the gene structure of lox-1 resemble that of the natural killer cell receptor .
fluorescence in situ hybridization and analysis of a yeast artificial chromosome contig reveal that the human lox-1 gene be located in the natural killer gene complex on chromosome 12p12-p13 , where the gene of the natural killer cell receptor cluster .
in contrast , the expression pattern of lox-1 be different from that of the natural killer cell receptor ; lox-1 be express in vascular-rich organ , but not in lymphocyte .
a 1753-bp fragment of the 5' flanking region of the lox-1 gene have a functional promoter activity .
this region contain bind site for several transcription factor , include the stat family and nf-il6 , and the expression of lox-1 be upregulated by several cytokine .
these result demonstrate that the human lox-1 gene be a new member of the natural killer gene complex with a unique expression profile .
copyright 1998 academic press .
redox status of cell influence constitutive or induce nf-kappa b translocation and hiv long terminal repeat activity in human t and monocytic cell line .
we have test the hypothesis that cellular activation event occur in t lymphocyte and monocyte and mediate through translocation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b be dependent upon the constitutive redox status of these cell .
we use phenolic , lipid-soluble , chain-breaking antioxidant ( butylate hydroxyanisole ( bha ) , nordihydroquairetic acid , or alpha-tocopherol ( vitamin e ) to show that peroxyl radical scavenging in unstimulated and pma- or tnf- stimulated cell block the function depend on nf-kappa b activation .
bha be find to suppress not only pma- or tnf- induced , but also constitutive , hiv-enhancer activity concomitant to an inhibition of nf-kappa b binding activity in both lymphoblastoid t ( j.jhan ) and monocytic ( u937 ) cell line .
this be also true for kbf ( p50 homodimer ) binding activity in u937 cell .
secretion of tnf , the product of another nf-kappa b -dependent gene , be abolish by bha in pma-stimulated u937 cell .
the anti-oxidative effect of bha be accompany by an increase in thiol , but not glutathione , content in stimulate and unstimulated t cell , whereas tnf stimulation itself barely modify the cellular thiol level .
oxidative stress obtain by the addition of h2o2 to the culture medium of j.jhan or u937 cell could not by itself induce nf-kappa b activation .
these observation suggest that tnf and pma do not lead to nf-kappa b activation through induction of change in the cell redox status .
rather , tnf and pma can exert their effect only if cell be in an appropriate redox status , because prior modification toward reduction with bha treatment prevent this activation .
it appear that a basal redox equilibrium tend toward oxidation be a prerequisite for full activation of transduction pathway regulate the activity of nf-kappa b -dependent gene .
selective effect of dna damaging agent on hiv long terminal repeat activation and virus replication in vitro .
much attention have recently focus on the observation that uv light can activate the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) of the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) .
although the mechanism of ltr activation remain obscure , several line of investigation have suggest that it be a result of activation of the nf-kappa b transcription factor ( s ) follow signaling event related to generalize dna damage .
in this report , we present data demonstrating that hiv ltr activation be not a general consequence of cellular dna damage , but rather a process unique to specific genotoxic stimulus , and that it do not necessarily depend on activation of nf-kappa b .
furthermore , we demonstrate that several of these agent can significantly increase hiv replication and accelerate cd4 -positive lymphocyte cytotoxicity in vitro .
these finding , therefore , could have clinical significance to aid patient with malignancy who be undergo radiotherapy and chemotherapy .
gabp factor bind to a distal interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) enhancer and contribute to c-raf -mediated increase in il-2 induction .
triggering of the t-cell receptor-cd3 complex activate two major signal cascade in t lymphocyte , ( i ) ca2+-dependent signal cascade and ( ii ) protein kinase cascade .
both signal cascade contribute to the induction of the interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene during t-cell activation .
prominent protein kinase cascade be those that activate mitogen-activated protein ( map ) kinase .
we show here that c-raf , which be at the helm of the classic map- erk cascade , contribute to il-2 induction through a distal enhancer element span the nucleotide from position -502 to -413 in front of the transcriptional start site of the il-2 gene .
induction of this distal il-2 enhancer differ from induction of the proximal il-2 promoter-enhancer , since it be induce by phorbol ester alone and independent from ca2+ signal .
in dna-protein binding study , we detect the binding of transcription factor gabp alpha and -beta to a dyad symmetry element ( dse ) of the distal enhancer , which be form by palindromic bind site of ets-like factor .
introduction of point mutation suppress gabp binding to the dse interfere with the induction of the distal enhancer and the entire il-2 promoter-enhancer , while overexpression of both gabp factor enhance the il-2 promoter-enhancer induction .
overexpression of bxb , a constitutive active version of c-raf , and of further member of the ra - raf - erk signal cascade exert an increase of gabp -mediated promoter-enhancer induction .
in conjunction with previously publish data on c-raf -induced phosphorylation of gabp factor ( e.flory , a. hoffmeyer , u.smola , u.r.rapp , and j.t.bruder , j.virol.70 : 2260-_2268 , 1996 ) , these result indicate a contribution of gabp factor to the raf -mediated enhancement of il-2 induction during t-cell activation .
an active v-abl protein tyrosine kinase block immunoglobulin light-chain gene rearrangement .
lymphoid cell transform by abelson murine leukemia virus have provide one of the classic model for study of early b-cell development and immunoglobulin rearrangement .
most of these cell have rearrange their heavy-chain locus but not their light chain gene , suggest that an active v-abl protein interfere with this differentiation step .
to test this hypothesis , light-chain gene structure be examine in pre-b cell transform by temperature-sensitive mutant of the abelson virus and in derivative that survive at the nonpermissive temperature because they express a human bcl-2 gene .
our study reveal that inactivation of the v-abl protein tyrosine kinase trigger high-frequency rearrangement of kappa and lambda light-chain gene .
these event be accompany by marked increase in the expression of rag-1 and rag-2 rna .
these increase occur in the absence of protein synthesis but be dependent on inactivation of the v-abl protein tyrosine kinase .
a document in the accompany paper ( klug et al. , this issue ) , an active v-abl protein also suppress the activity of nf-kappa b /rel and expression control by the kappa intron enhancer .
together these data demonstrate that the v-abl protein specifically interfere with light-chain gene rearrangement by suppress at least two pathway essential for this stage of b-cell differentiation and suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation be important in regulate rag gene expression .
il-10 cooperate with tnf-alpha to activate hiv-1 from latently and acutely infected cell of monocyte/macrophage lineage .
il-10 be elevated in hiv-1 -infected individual and have be implicate in disease progression .
in this study , we investigate the effect of il-10 on the activation of hiv-1 from infected monocyte and macrophage .
although il-10 alone do not induce hiv-1 replication , in the presence of tnf-alpha , il-10 markedly enhance virion production from a chronically infected promonocytic cell line ( u1 ) and in acutely infected monocyte-derived macrophage .
neutralize mabs to il-10 and tnf-alpha indicate that both cytokine be essential for the induction and be require to generate a synergistic increase in virus expression .
the effect of the two cytokine be distinguishable functionally since pretreatment with tnf-alpha attenuate the cytokine cooperativity , while pretreatment with il-10 potentiate their cooperativity , suggest that il-10 and tnf-alpha play different role in the activation of virus .
northern blot analysis as well a ab blocking and cytokine secretion study indicate that the induction of either endogenous tnf-alpha or il-10 be not involve in the cooperativity , nor be an up-regulation of tnf-alpha receptor .
in combination with tnf-alpha , il-10 stimulate activate protein-1 ( ap-1 ) and nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b binding activity and cooperate to increase hiv-1 steady-state mrna level and enhance long terminal repeat -directed transcription through activation of the nf-kappa b binding site , suggest the il-10 effect occur at least in part at the transcriptional level .
these result indicate that il-10 , in addition to down-regulating the cellular immune response to hiv-1 , may also play a role in tnf-alpha -mediated activation of hiv-1 replication in the monocyte/macrophage lineage .
analysis of the preexisting and nuclear form of nuclear factor of activate t cell .
the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) 3 be an inducible dna-binding protein that be essential for transcriptional induction of the il-2 gene during t cell activation .
nf-at be think to consist of two component : a ubiquitous , inducible nuclear component that we have identify a fo and jun protein , and a preexist , t cell-specific component ( nf-atp ) which be the target for the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 .
we have previously show that nuclear extract from activate t cell form two inducible nf-at complex with an oligonucleotide correspond to the distal nf-at site of the murine il-2 promoter , although hypotonic extract of unstimulated t cell form a single complex contain nf-atp .
we show that the ability to detect nf-atp in a gel shift assay , which be essential for purification and biochemical study of this protein , be strikingly dependent on the precise sequence of the nf-at oligonucleotide use a the labeled probe .
moreover we present evidence that the component that form the faster-migrating ( " low " ) nuclear nf-at complex be derive by a calcium-dependent , cyclosporin-sensitive , posttranslational modification of nf-atp , and that fo and jun protein stabilize it interaction with dna .
the result be discuss in the context of a model relate the two nuclear nf-at complex to nf-atp .
cross-priming of ctl response in vivo do not require antigenic peptide in the endoplasmic reticulum of immunizing cell .
it have be propose that the cross-priming of ctl response in vivo involve the transfer to host apc of heat shock protein glycoprotein 96 -chaperoned antigenic peptide release from the endoplasmic reticulum ( er ) of die or infected cell .
we have test this possibility directly use tap-deficient cell line lack antigenic er peptide derive from two model ag , the human adenovirus type 5 early region e1a and e1b .
although both protein be well express , the cell be not recognize by e1a- or e1b- specific ctls unless the relevant epitope be either provide exogenously a a synthetic peptide or target to the er in a tap-independent fashion .
despite the absence of these er peptide , the tap1-/- cell be able to efficiently cross-prime e1a- and e1b- specific ctls follow immunization of syngeneic mouse .
these result indicate that , although purify peptide/glycoprotein 96 complex be potent immunogen , the mechanism of ctl cross-priming in vivo do not depend upon antigenic peptide in the er of immunizing cell .
in vivo and in vitro effect of glucocorticoid on lymphocyte proliferation in man : relationship to glucocorticoid receptor .
interrelation between the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal system ( hpa ) and the immune system represent a well-documented biological phenomenon .
while in vitro administration of glucocorticoid may inhibit concanavalin a ( con a ) - and phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) - induced t-cell proliferation , pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) -driven b-cell mitogenesis be relatively resistant to glucocorticoid .
to far explore the link between the hpa and the immune system in relation to glucocorticoid receptor function , dose-response curve be obtain for con a - and pha -induced t-cell mitogenesis , pwm -generated b-cell mitogenesis and spontaneous lymphocyte proliferation in 13 healthy control .
glucocorticoid effect be assess in vivo by depletion of endogenous glucocorticoid after oral administration of 1.5 g metyrapone ( met ) and subsequent glucocorticoid replacement , and in vitro by incubation of the cell with different dos of dexamethasone ( dex ) .
there be a significant decrease in pwm -induced b-cell mitogenesis and a more pronounced effect of dex administer in vitro on spontaneous lymphocyte proliferation after met treatment when compare with the dex plus met pretreated condition in vivo .
these data suggest that the inhibition of spontaneous lymphocyte proliferation by glucocorticoid in vitro be related to glucocorticoid receptor function .
the decrease in pwm -generated b-cell proliferation follow cortisol depletion by met may be see in connection with impaired glucocorticoid -mediated induction of interleukin-1 receptor synthesis .
[ plasma cortisol concentration and blood leukocyte content of glucocorticoid receptor in patient with deficiency-cold v deficiency-heat syndrome ]
plasma cortisol concentration and blood leukocyte content of glucocorticoid receptor ( gcr ) be assay in 20 patient with deficiency syndrome , 10 cold in property ( deficiency-cold ) , the other 10 hot in property ( deficiency-heat ) , and also in 10 healthy individual a normal control for the purpose of investigate the nature of cold and heat syndrome .
a a result , the case of deficiency-cold syndrome ( dc ) have a normal concentration of plasma cortisol but a lowered content of gcr in leukocyte when compare with the normal control ( p less than 0.05 ) ; the case of deficiency-heat syndrome ( dhs ) have a high concentration of plasma cortisol than the normal control ( p less than 0.05 ) and a slightly high content of gcr in leukocyte .
it be conclude that the dc be characterize by diminish biological effect of adrenocortical activity , while the dhs , by augmented biological effect of adrenocortical activity .
analysis of interaction between hugata-3 transcription factor and three gata regulatory element of hiv-1 long terminal repeat , by surface plasmon resonance .
relative affinity of transcriptional regulatory element for their respective factor have be essentially study by bandshift analysis .
here we report a real-time study of factor/dna interaction use a surface plasmon resonance approach and further characterization of recover protein involve in this interaction .
for this purpose , human gata-3 , either recombinant or in nuclear extract , and three natural gata element of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( site 1 , 2 , and 3 ) be choose , in which only site 2 be a noncanonical gata site .
direct analysis of sensorgrams , with recombinant hugata-3 , allow the comparison of association and dissociation profile of the three dna region and their ranking accord to their relative affinity .
this result , confirm by competition with each gata site , demonstrate the high relative affinity ( at least sevenfold ) of site 3 .
interaction between the canonical and unique gata site 3 and nuclear extract be also study in real time and provide information on it association and dissociation rate for native hugata-3 .
finally , recover protein be identify a genuine hugata-3 by sds-page , western blotting , and bandshift assay .
copyright 1997 academic press .
cd2 signalling induce phosphorylation of creb in primary lymphocyte .
promoter sequence responsive to cyclic amp ( camp ) be find in a number of cellular gene , and bind transcription factor of the camp response element binding protein ( creb ) / activating transcription factor-1 ( atf-1 ) family .
we have use a human t-lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) model of camp response element ( cre ) transcription to investigate the influence of lymphocyte activation on transcription from homologous region in the viral promoter .
we previously demonstrate increase htlv-1 transcription follow cd2 but not cd3 receptor cross-linking .
we hypothesize that this increase viral transcription be mediate , in part , through the phosphorylation of creb .
therefore , we investigate cd2 and cd3 receptor -mediated signalling in primary human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) .
cd2 , but not cd3 , cross-linking increase camp detect by competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay ( elisa ) approximately fourfold .
cd2 cross-linking concurrently increase phosphorylation of creb detect by immunoblot assay eightfold .
consistent with post-translational regulation , no change in total level of creb protein be observe .
phosphorylation of creb occur through a herbimycin a and rp-camp- sensitive pathway , suggest phosphorylation require antecedent activation of both protein tyrosine kinase ( ptk ) and protein kinase a ( pka ) .
both cd2 and cd3 cross-linking increase binding of nuclear protein to a radiolabelled cre oligonucleotide probe in electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggest that lymphocyte activation enhance binding independently of phosphorylation of creb at serine 133 .
these data indicate specific modulation of the creb /atf-1 family of transcription factor by the cd2 signalling pathway and suggest cd2 receptor modulation of cre -mediated transcription follow ligand engagement ( e.g. cell-to-cell contact ) .
elevated cyclic amp inhibit nf-kappab -mediated transcription in human monocytic cell and endothelial cell .
the nf-kappab /rel family of transcription factor regulate the inducible expression of many gene in activate human monocyte and endothelial cell .
in this study , we examine the molecular mechanism by which agent that elevate intracellular camp inhibit the expression of the tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnfalpha ) , tissue factor , endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule-1 , and vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 gene .
both forskolin and dibutyryl camp , which elevate intracellular camp by independent mechanism , inhibit tnfalpha and tissue factor expression at the level of transcription .
induction of nf-kappab -dependent gene expression in transiently transfected human monocytic thp-1 cell and human umbilical vein endothelial cell be inhibit by elevated camp and by overexpression of the catalytic subunit of protein kinase a ( pka ) .
elevated camp do not prevent nuclear translocation of p50/p65 and c-rel/p65 heterodimers , decrease nuclear translocation of p65 , or significantly modify tnfalpha -induced phosphorylation of p65 .
functional study demonstrate that transcriptional activation of a plasmid contain multimerized kappab site by p65 be inhibit by agent that elevate camp and by overexpression of the catalytic subunit of pka .
this study indicate that activation of pka reduce the induction of a distinct set of gene in monocyte and endothelial cell by inhibit nf-kappab -mediated transcription .
induction of cd8 antigen and suppressor activity by glucocorticoid in a cem human leukemic cell clone .
the relationship between glucocorticoid effect and regulation of cell surface antigen be investigate in two model of leukemic cell line , cem c7 denote ( r+ , ly+ ) and cem c1 ( r+ , ly- ) .
the reactivity of murine monoclonal antibody , anti-cd4-fitc , anti-cd8-fitc , anti-cd2-fitc and anti-calla-fitc , be analyze use flow cytometry .
the suppressor function be determine use [3h]thymidine incorporation into phytohemagglutinin -activated peripheral blood lymphocyte .
dexamethasone treatment of a human leukemic cell clone cem c7 cause an increase in a subset of cell express the surface antigen cd8 , which be present on suppressor and cytotoxic t-lymphocytes .
by comparison , there be no modification of the expression of cd4 antigen , which be express at high level in these cell .
after two day of treatment with 5 x 10 ( -8 ) m dexamethasone , cem c7 cell show a two-fold increase in suppressor activity compare to untreated cell .
in contrast , there be no regulation by glucocorticoid of either the cd8 or cd4 antigen in the leukemic clone cem c1 .
furthermore , no modification of the suppressor function in cem c1 cell by dexamethasone be observe .
in the human leukemic cell study here , the ability to induce cd8 antigen expression in a cd4+ cell correlate with the ability to induce cell lysis in a glucocorticoid receptor positive cell population .
differential interaction of nuclear factor with the pre-i enhancer element of the human il-4 promoter in different t cell subset .
the immunomodulatory cytokine il-4 affect cell of most hemopoietic lineage .
il-4 be secrete by activate th2 but not th1 cell and play a major role in the immune response by modulate the differentiation of naive th cell toward the th2 phenotype .
we have previously identify an enhancer element , pre-i , that be essential for the function of the human il-4 promoter .
to investigate the mechanism responsible for tissue-specific expression of the il-4 gene , we analyze nuclear factor bind to the pre-i site and compare the binding activity of these factor to the il-4 promoter of th1 and th2 cell .
we show that pre-i interact with pma - and pma / ionomycin -inducible , cyclosporin a -sensitive nuclear factor .
use anti-c/ebpbeta ( nf-il6 ) , anti-c/ebpdelta ( nf-il6beta ) , anti-nf-atc , anti-nf-atp , anti-fos , and anti-jun ab we demonstrate that the previously identify pre-i binding factor pos-1 be compose of different transcription factor in different th cell subset .
in the il-4 -producing th0-like human jurkat and mouse el-4 cell , pos-1 ( designate pos-1a ) contain nf-il6beta and jun .
in the mouse th2 d10 cell and in the human th2 clone , pos-1 ( designate pos-1b ) contain nf-il6beta , jun , and nf-atc/p .
in contrast , pos-1 be not find in nuclear extract of human th1 clone .
these finding suggest that pre-i may play a role in the differential regulation of il-4 gene expression level .
position effect of translocation involve the inactive x chromosome : physical linkage to xic/xist do not lead to long-range de novo inactivation in human differentiate cell .
give the report long-range cis-inactivating effect of the xist gene in early embryonic development and the lack of requirement of x- chromosome-specific element for propagate the inactive state , there exist the possibility of cis inactivation of autosomal material after de novo translocation to an inactive x chromosome ( xi ) in differentiate cell .
we have analyze de novo radiation-induced translocation between the xi and autosome to study the maintenance and spreading of x-chromosome inactivation ( x inactivation ) in relation to the position of the x-inactivation center ( xic ) /xist in differentiate cell .
autosome/ xi translocation be detect by fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) .
the activation status of the chromosome involve in the translocation be determine by simultaneous immunocytogenetic study use antibody against either brdu incorporate at late s phase or acetylate histone h4 .
the position of xic/xist in the reciprocal product of the translocation be determine by xist-specific fish and computer enhancement .
in other experiment , the xq13 region carry xic/xist be localize by computer enhancement of the dapi banding pattern .
our study in differentiate cell provide a visual demonstration that physical separation from xic/xist do not result in reactivation of inactive x-chromosome material and that x inactivation be not spread to the translocate autosome irrespective of the position of xic/xist .
this observation suggest that physical linkage to xic/xist do not lead to de novo inactivation of autosomal material .
lack of il-12 signaling in human allergen-specific th2 cell .
il-12 be a powerful skewer of cd4+ t cell response toward the th1 phenotype by induce ifn-gamma production in naive th cell .
in the present study we address the question of whether il-12 can reverse established th2 response into th1/th0 response by induce ifn-gamma production in memory th2 cell .
to this aim , allergen-specific cd4+ t cell clone ( tcc ) be generate from the peripheral blood of three atopic patient , and their cytokine profile be analyze .
the majority of these tcc exhibit a strongly polarize th2 cytokine profile , and the production of ifn-gamma could not be induce by exogenous il-12 .
only those tcc with low ifn-gamma level in the absence of il-12 respond to il-12 by additional enhancement of ifn-gamma production .
the il-12 nonresponsiveness of the th2 clone be far evident by the total lack of il-12 -induced phosphorylation of stat4 ( signal transducer and activator of transcription-4 ) , a transcription factor that be typically involve in il-12 signaling .
consequently , il-12 also fail to induce the dna-binding activity of stat4 -containing complex in the nucleus of these th2 clone .
all tcc express equal level of the low-affinity il-12r beta1 subunit .
our result indicate that human allergen-specific th cell with strongly polarize th2 cytokine profile do not respond to il-12 and , therefore , can not be induce to produce ifn-gamma .
the apparent high frequency of il-12 -nonresponsive th cell within the allergen-specific population in atopic patient predict a limited skewing potential of il-12 in the case of established th2 response , but only affect newly recruit naive th cell .
chronic human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection of myeloid cell disrupt the autoregulatory control of the nf-kappab/rel pathway via enhance ikappabalpha degradation .
productive human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection cause sustained nf-kappab dna-binding activity in chronically infect monocytic cell .
a direct temporal correlation exist between hiv infection and the appearance of nf-kappab dna-binding activity in myelomonoblastic plb-985 cell .
to examine the molecular basis of constitutive nf-kappab dna-binding activity in hiv1_-infected cell , we analyze the phosphorylation and turnover of ikappabalpha protein , the activity of the double-stranded rna-dependent protein kinase ( pkr ) and the intracellular level of nf-kappab subunit in the plb-985 and u937 myeloid cell model .
hiv-1 infection result in constitutive , low-level expression of type 1 interferon ( ifn ) at the mrna level .
constitutive pkr activity be also detect in hiv-1 -infected cell a a result of low-level ifn production , since the addition of anti-ifn-alpha/beta antibody to the cell decrease pkr expression .
furthermore , the analysis of ikappabalpha turnover demonstrate an increase degradation of ikappabalpha in hiv-1 -infected cell that may account for the constitutive dna binding activity .
a dramatic increase in the intracellular level of nf-kappab subunit c-rel and nf-kappab2 p100 and a moderate increase in nf-kappab2 p52 and rela ( p65 ) be detect in hiv-1 -infected cell , whereas nf-kappab1 p105/p50 level be not alter relative to the level in uninfected cell .
we suggest that hiv-1 infection of myeloid cell induce ifn production and pkr activity , which in turn contribute to enhance ikappabalpha phosphorylation and subsequent degradation .
nuclear translocation of nf-kappab subunit may ultimately increase the intracellular pool of nf-kappab /ikappabalpha by an autoregulatory mechanism .
enhance turnover of ikappabalpha and the accumulation of nf-kappab /rel protein may contribute to the chronically activated state of hiv-1 -infected cell .
differential regulation of proto-oncogene c-jun and c-fos in t lymphocyte activate through cd28 .
the t cell surface molecule cd28 bind to ligand on accessory cell and apc , play an important costimulatory role in the response of t cell to ag .
our knowledge of the intracellular signaling pathway couple to this receptor be incomplete .
in addition to activation of phospholipase c gamma 1 , ligation of this receptor also seem to activate a calcium -independent , cd28 -specific pathway .
in this paper , we report that cross-linking of cd28 ( but not cd2 , cd5 , lfa-1 , or cd7 ) lead to an elevation of c-jun mrna , with only minimal activation of c-fos expression .
cd28 -dependent induction of c-jun expression require protein tyrosine kinase activity , but do not depend on activation of a phorbol ester -responsive protein kinase c or elevation of cytosolic calcium .
furthermore , cd28 -dependent elevation of c-jun mrna do not appear to be mediate at the level of mrna stability .
a mechanism be suggest whereby expression of c-jun and junb , in the absence of member of the fo family , can prevent inappropriate activation of t cell cause by ligation of cd28 in the absence of a specific antigenic stimulus .
selective expression of an interleukin-12 receptor component by human t helper 1 cell .
interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) , a heterodimeric cytokine produce by activate monocyte and dendritic cell , play a crucial role in regulate interferon ( ifn ) -gamma production and in the generation of ifn-gamma -producing t helper 1 ( th1 ) cell .
here we show that the il-12 receptor ( il-12r ) beta 2 subunit , a recently clone binding and signal transducing component of the il-12r , be express on human th1 but not th2 clone and be induce during differentiation of human naive cell along the th1 but not the th2 pathway .
il-12 and type i but not type ii interferon induce expression of the il-12r beta 2 chain during in vitro t cell differentiation after antigen receptor triggering .
the selective expression and regulation of the il-12r beta 2 subunit may help to understand the basis of th1/th2 differentiation and may provide therapeutic option for alter the th1/th2 balance in several immuno-pathological condition such a autoimmune disease and allergy .
central nervous system -derived cell express a kappa b-binding activity that enhance human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription in vitro and facilitate tar -independent transactivation by tat .
the tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) be a potent activator of long terminal repeat -directed transcription .
while in most cell type , activation require interaction of tat with the unusual transcription element tar , astrocytic glial cell support tar -independent transactivation of hiv-1 transcription by tat .
this alternative pathway of tat activation be mediate by the viral enhancer , a kappa b domain capable of bind the prototypical form of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) present in many cell type , include t lymphocyte .
tat transactivation mediate by the kappa b domain be sufficient to allow replication of tar -deleted mutant hiv-1 in astrocyte .
the present study demonstrate the existence of kappa b-specific binding factor present in human glial astrocyte that differ from prototypical nf-kappa b .
the novel astrocyte-derived kappa b-binding activity be retain on an hiv-1 tat affinity column , while prototypical nf-kappa b from jurkat t cell be not .
in vitro transcription study demonstrate that astrocyte-derived kappa b-binding factor activate transcription of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat and that this activation be dependent on the kappa b domain .
moreover , tar -independent transactivation of hiv-1 transcription be reproduce in vitro in an astrocyte factor-dependent manner which correlate with kappa b-binding activity .
the importance of the central nervous system -enriched kappa b transcription factor in the regulation of hiv-1 expression be discuss .
zap-70 tyrosine kinase , cd45 , and t cell receptor involvement in uv- and h2o2- induced t cell signal transduction .
several mammalian response to uv irradiation , include the activation of nf-kappa b , be believe to involve tyrosine phosphorylation .
uv irradiation and h2o2 treatment of t lymphocyte induce protein tyrosine phosphorylation and ca2+ signal similar to those observe follow biological stimulation .
we have examine the role of cell surface molecule in these response .
normal t lymphocyte whose surface expression of cd3 be deplete show impaired uv-induced tyrosine phosphorylation and ca2+ signal .
similarly , jurkat t cell line deficient in cd3 or cd45 expression also give impaired uv response .
however , all these cell type still give strong ca2+ and tyrosine phosphorylation response to h2o2 .
the t cell tyrosine kinase zap-70 be find to be highly responsive to uv and h2o2 treatment .
zap-70 responsiveness to uv require expression of both cd3 and cd45 , whereas only cd3 be require for the response to h2o2 .
uv -induced activation of nf-kappa b be block by cd3 depletion , indicate the importance of such cell surface molecule in biological response to uv .
in nonlymphoid cell , the epidermal growth factor receptor display increase tyrosine phosphorylation within second of uv irradiation .
these result suggest that uv -induced signal transduction be mediate via cell surface receptor that normally respond to biological stimulation , whereas h2o2 be able to partially bypass this requirement .
epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 ( ebna2 ) -oestrogen receptor fusion protein complement the ebna2-deficient epstein-barr virus strain p3hr1 in transformation of primary b cell but suppress growth of human b cell lymphoma line .
to develop a transformation system with a conditional epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 ( ebna2 ) gene , we fuse the hormone binding domain of the oestrogen receptor to the n or c terminus of ebna2 .
in promoter transactivation as well a primary b cell transformation assay these chimeric ebna2 protein be able to substitute for wild-type ebna2 in the presence of oestrogen .
here we provide evidence that this transformation be the result of double infection of a cell with two virion , the p3hr1 virus genome and a mini- ebv plasmid carry the chimeric ebna2 gene .
unexpectedly , expression of the same ebna2 -oestrogen receptor fusion protein in established human b cell lymphoma line result in growth retardation or growth arrest upon the addition of oestrogen .
by titrate the oestrogen concentration in these stably transfected cell , the growth retarding and the transactivating function of the chimeric protein could not be dissociate .
we propose that growth inhibition of established b cell lymphoma line be a novel function of ebna2 which have not be detect in the absence of an inducible system .
it remain open whether the growth retarding property of the ebna2 -oestrogen receptor fusion protein in b cell lymphoma line be due to unphysiologically high expression of the chimeric protein or to interference with a cellular programme drive proliferation in these cell line .
involvement of nuclear factor-kappa b activation in ige synthesis in human b cell .
nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be a transcription factor that bind to the consensus dna sequence in the cis-acting element of various gene .
although nf-kappa b activate the expression of many gene involve in immune and inflammatory response , little be know about the role of nf-kappa b activation in the induction of ige synthesis in human b cell .
therefore we first examine the participation of nf-kappa b in germline c epsilon transcription in a human burkitt lymphoma b cell line , dnd39 .
stimulation of dnd39 cell with il-4 or anti-cd40 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) activate phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and subsequently induce nuclear expression of nf-kappa b , which be identify by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , a potent antioxidant , block nf-kappa b activation cause by il-4 and by anti-cd40 mab .
although inhibition of il-4 -driven germline c epsilon transcription by nac be not sufficient , the agent remarkably diminish anti-cd40 mab -mediated up-regulation of germline c epsilon transcription .
second , we study the effect of nac on ige synthesis in human normal b cell costimulated with il-4 and anti-cd40 mab .
nac be effective in inhibit mature c epsilon transcription and ige synthesis in the t cell-independent culture system .
however , nac do not significantly affect the spontaneous production of ige by atopic b cell .
these result indicate that nf-kappa b activity be commonly inducible in dnd39 cell by il-4 and anti-cd40 mab and suggest that nf-kappa b sensitive to nac may play a role in regulate ige synthesis in b cell .
stable expression of transdominant rev protein in human t cell inhibit human immunodeficiency virus replication .
the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) rev protein be essential for viral structural protein expression ( gag , pol , and env ) and , hence , for viral replication .
in transient transfection assay , mutant form of rev have be identify that inhibit wild-type rev activity and therefore suppress viral replication .
to determine whether such transdominant rev protein could provide long-term protection against hiv infection without affect t cell function , t leukemia cell line be stably transduce with a retroviral vector encode a transdominant mutant of the rev protein , m10 .
while all the m10 -expressing cell line remain infectable by hiv-1 , these same cell fail to support a productive replication cycle when infect with a clone isolate of hiv-1 .
in addition , two out of three m10 -expressing cem clone be also resistant to highly productive infection by a heterogeneous hiv-1 pool .
expression of m10 do not affect induction of hiv transcription mediate by the kappa b regulatory element or tat .
importantly , constitutive expression of rev m10 do not alter the secretion of interleukin 2 in response to mitogen stimulation of el-4 and jurkat cell .
the inhibition of hiv infection in cell stably express a transdominant rev protein , in the absence of any deleterious effect on t cell function , suggest that such a strategy could provide a therapeutic effect in the t lymphocyte of acquire immunodeficiency syndrome patient .
hla binding characteristic and generation of cytotoxic lymphocyte against peptide derive from oncogenic protein .
aim and background : structurally alter protein ( derive from chromosomal translocation or gene mutation ) can be consider tumor specific antigen and represent an attractive target for a t-cell mediated response .
t lymphocyte recognize antigen in the form of peptide bind to hla-molecules .
material and method : peptide derive from oncogenic protein be screen for the presence of hla binding motif ; actual binding be evaluate by hla stabilization experiment use transfectants and specific anti-hla antibody .
specific lymphocyte be induce by in vitro peptide sensitization and screen by thymidine uptake or cellular cytotoxic assay .
result : we identify peptide derive from ews/fli-1 fusion protein and from mutate k-ras protein ( encompass respectively the fusion point and the mutation at position 12 ) that show bind motif for hla-cw*0702 and hla-a3 respectively .
the actual binding of these peptide be analyse in a stabilization assay .
we detect binding for the ews/fli-1 peptide and for 5 ra peptide ( 1 wild type and 4 mutate ) .
the effect of temperature , beta 2-microglobulin ( beta 2-m ) and fetal calf serum ( fcs ) on the binding and the stability of the hla/peptide complex be study .
a low temperature ( 26 degree c ) increase the binding both in hla-a3 and hla-cw*0702 , while fcs reduce it .
beta 2-m increase the binding to the hla-a3 molecule but do not influence the binding to the hla-cw*0702 .
the stability of already form complexed be somewhat different in the hla-a3 and hla-cw*0702 system : both be more stable at 26 degree c than at 37 degree c but while the beta 2-m and fcs do not influence the stability of the hla-a3 /peptide complex , they seem to cause opposite effect in the hla-cw*0702 system ( beta 2-m stabilize and fcs destabilize the complex ) .
finally , we be able to generate a specific cd8+ ctl line against a k-ras mutated peptide .
conclusion : although bind motif and actual hla binding can be detect in several case , the generation of a cellular response be infrequent , confirm that hla binding be necessary but not sufficient to obtain an in vitro response .
far optimization of culture condition , type of antigen presenting cell ( apc ) , peptide , use of stabilizer like beta 2-m be still need .
recombinant nfat1 ( nfatp ) be regulate by calcineurin in t cell and mediate transcription of several cytokine gene .
transcription factor of the nfat family play a key role in the transcription of cytokine gene and other gene during the immune response .
we have identify two new isoforms of the transcription factor nfat1 ( previously term nfatp ) that be the predominant isoforms express in murine and human t cell .
when express in jurkat t cell , recombinant nfat1 be regulate , a expect , by the calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin , and it function be inhibit by the immunosuppressive agent cyclosporin a ( csa ) .
transactivation by recombinant nfat1 in jurkat t cell require dual stimulation with ionomycin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ; this activity be potentiate by coexpression of constitutively active calcineurin and be inhibit by csa .
immunocytochemical analysis indicate that recombinant nfat1 localize in the cytoplasm of transiently transfected t cell and translocate into the nucleus in a csa -sensitive manner follow ionomycin stimulation .
when express in co cell , however , nfat1 be capable of transactivation , but it be not regulate correctly : it subcellular localization and transcriptional function be not affect by stimulation of the co cell with ionomycin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate .
recombinant nfat1 can mediate transcription of the interleukin-2 , interleukin-4 , tumor necrosis factor alpha , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoter in t cell , suggest that nfat1 contribute to the csa -sensitive transcription of these gene during the immune response .
role of ascorbate in the activation of nf-kappab by tumour necrosis factor-alpha in t-cells .
the first product of ascorbate oxidation , the ascorbate free radical ( afr ) , act in biological system mainly a an oxidant , and through it role in the plasma membrane redox system exert different effect on the cell .
we have investigate the role of ascorbate , afr and dehydroascorbate ( dha ) in the activation of the nf-kappab transcription factor in jurkat t-cells stimulate by tumour necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
here we show , by electrophoretic mobility shift assay , that ascorbate increase the binding of nf-kappab to dna in tnf-alpha -stimulated jurkat cell .
the ability of ascorbate to enhance cytoplasmic inhibitory ikbalpha protein degradation correlate completely with it capacity to induce nf-kappab binding to dna and to potentiate nf-kappab -mediated transactivation of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat promoter in tnf-alpha -stimulated jurkat cell but not in cell stimulate with pma plus ionomycin .
afr behave like ascorbate , while dha and ascorbate phosphate do not affect tnf-alpha -mediated nf-kappab activation .
these result provide new evidence for a possible relationship between the activation of the electron-transport system at the plasma membrane by ascorbate or it free radical and redox-dependent gene transcription in t-cells .
modulatory effect of glucocorticoid and catecholamine on human interleukin -12 and interleukin -10 production : clinical implication .
interleukin-12 ( il-12 ) be a key inducer of differentiation of uncommitted t helper ( th ) cell toward the th1 phenotype , which regulate cellular immunity , whereas il-10 inhibit th1 function and potentiate th2-regulated response ( i.e. , humoral immunity ) .
to examine the potential effect of stress on th1/th2 balance , we study the ability of three prototype stress hormone - dexamethasone ( a synthetic glucocorticoid ) and the catecholamine norepinephrine and epinephrine - to alter the production of il-12 ( p70 ) and il-10 induce by bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) in human whole blood .
dexamethasone inhibit lp -induced bioactive il-12 production in a dose-dependent fashion and at physiologically relevant concentration ; it have no effect on il-10 secretion .
the glucocorticoid -induced reduction of il-12 production be antagonize by ru 486 , a glucocorticoid -receptor antagonist , suggest that it be mediate by the glucocorticoid receptor .
norepinephrine and epinephrine also suppress il-12 production in a dose-dependent fashion and at physiological concentration ; both catecholamine , however , dose-dependently increase the production of il-10 .
the effect of either catecholamine on il-12 or il-10 secretion be block completely by propranolol , a beta-adrenoreceptor antagonist , indicate that they be mediate by the beta-adrenergic receptor .
these finding suggest that the central nervous system may regulate il-12 and il-10 secretion and , hence , th1/th2 balance via the peripheral end-effectors of the stress system .
thus , stress may cause a selective suppression of th1 function and a shift toward a th2 cytokine pattern rather than generalized th suppression .
the th1-to-th2 shift may be responsible for the stress-induced susceptibility of the organism to certain infection .
through the same or a reciprocal mechanism , state associate with chronic hyperactivity or hypoactivity of the stress system might influence the susceptibility of an individual to certain autoimmune , allergic , infectious , or neoplastic disease .
physiological concentration of estradiol inhibit polymorphonuclear leukocyte chemotaxis via a receptor mediated system .
estrogen exhibit a variety of action , include immuno-modulatory effect , in vivo and in vitro .
the mechanism by which estrogen exert it anti-inflammatory effect be not yet understand .
we investigate the possible mechanism of estradiol act via the polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmns ) , which be important in the immune response .
the agent , 17 beta- estradiol , but not 17 alpha- estradiol , significantly reduce pmns chemotaxis to fmlp in a dose-dependent manner ( control v estrogen 10(-10)-(-6) m , p < 0.05 ) .
physiological concentration of estradiol significantly reduce the chemotaxis of pmns ( 10(-10) mol ) .
pre-incubation with clomiphene or tamoxifen which be estrogen receptor antagonist , eliminate the inhibitory effect of 17 beta- estradiol on the chemotaxis of pmns , restore it to the control level .
these observation suggest that 17 beta- estradiol suppress the chemotaxis of pmns by a receptor-dependent mechanism .
in addition , the level of estradiol in human plasma , which pmns be draw , show a close , inverse correlation with the pmns chemotaxis to fmlp ( r = -0.821 p < 0.001 ) .
estrogen may modify the activity of neutrophil during the normal menstrual cycle , not only during pregnancy , and influence inflammation .
interaction of a transcriptional activator in the env gene of the mouse mammary tumor virus with activation-dependent , t cell-specific transact factor .
the mouse mammary tumor virus env gene contain a transcriptional activator ( meta ) that can control transcription of the adjacent long terminal repeat region .
transcriptional control by meta parallel that of several lymphokine gene , be specific to t cell , dependent on their activation , and inhibit by the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporine ( csa ) .
dnase i footprinting indicate that nuclear factor from activate t lymphocyte bind a promoter-proximal site , meta(p) , and a promoter-distal site , meta(d+) , within the 400-base pair meta region .
nuclear factor from unstimulated , but not from activate cell , bind a site , meta(d-) , adjacent to meta(d+) .
meta(d+) direct transcription of a link luciferase gene , and gel shift analysis reveal binding of inducible , csa -sensitive t cell factor , in parallel with transfection result .
authentic nfat and nf-kappab target do not compete for the meta(d+) binding factor ( s ) .
the sv40 core sequence compete for meta(d+) binding factor , but meta(d+) fail to compete for the complex obtain with the sv40 probe .
our result , take together , indicate that meta(d+) be a novel transcriptional enhancer element that be similar in it cell-type specificity , activation dependence , and csa sensitivity to the nfat element .
it may be relevant to the role of mmtv in expression of ml antigen or the induction of t cell lymphoma .
tar -independent transactivation by tat in cell derive from the cns : a novel mechanism of hiv-1 gene regulation .
the tat protein of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) be essential for productive infection and be a potential target for antiviral therapy .
tat , a potent activator of hiv-1 gene expression , serve to greatly increase the rate of transcription direct by the viral promoter .
this induction , which seem to be an important component in the progression of acquire immune deficiency syndrome ( aid ) , may be due to increase transcriptional initiation , increase transcriptional elongation , or a combination of these process .
much attention have be focus on the interaction of tat with a specific rna target term tar ( transactivation responsive ) which be present in the leader sequence of all hiv-1 mrna .
this interaction be believe to be an important component of the mechanism of transactivation .
in this report we demonstrate that in certain cns-derived cell tat be capable of activate hiv-1 through a tar -independent pathway .
a tat -responsive element be find upstream within the viral promoter that in glial-derived cell line allow transactivation in the absence of tar .
deletion mapping and hybrid promoter construct demonstrate that the newly identify tat -responsive element correspond to a sequence within the viral long terminal repeat ( ltr ) previously identify a the hiv-1 enhancer , or nf-kappa b domain .
dna band-shift analysis reveal nf-kappa b binding activity in glial cell that differ from that present in t lymphoid cell .
far , we observe that tar-deleted mutant of hiv-1 demonstrate normal late gene expression in glial cell a evidence by syncytium formation and production of viral p24 antigen .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
minimal residual disease in acute myelogenous leukemia with pml/rar alpha or aml1/eto mrna and phenotypic analysis of possible t and natural killer cell in bone marrow .
here we study minimal residual disease ( mrd ) of patient with acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) who have pml/rar alpha or aml1/eto as well a the phenotypic analysis of lymphocyte subset involve in antitumor immunity .
eight patient in long-term ( lt ; 3 to 15 year ) and 15 patient in short-term ( st ; up to 3 year ) remission be study .
use the reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( rt ) assay , the limit of detection be 10(-5) to 10(-6) for pml/rar alpha transcript and 10(-4) to 10(-5) for the aml1/eto transcript .
simultaneously , t lymphocyte subset and nk cell from the peripheral blood ( pb ) and bone marrow ( bm ) be investigate by flow cytometric analysis .
four of the eight patient in lt and 7 of the 15 patient in st remission be mrd -positive .
although all mrd -positive patient in lt remission be still until now event-free , 3 of the 7 mrd -positive ( mrd + ) patient in st remission soon relapsed .
the total population of cd4 + , cd8 + and cd56 + [ possible t-cell and natural killer ( t/nk ) population ] in the bm of st patient and mrd +/lt patient be significantly ( p < .01 ) low .
the cd8 + cd28 + population show the same tendency ( p < .01-.02 ) .
the t/nk subset in the bm of mrd -negative ( mrd - ) lt ( mrd -/lt ) patient show similar number of cell a normal volunteer .
basically , the total percentage of the cd4 + , cd8 + and cd56 + cell population in the bm be increase and in the follow order : mrd -/lt patient , normal volunteer , mrd +/lt patient and mrd + or -/st patient .
the percentage of the t/nk-cell subset in the pb be not significantly different among these group .
thus , the difference of the possible t/nk-cell phenotype in the bm may strongly influence clinical and molecular remission .
these result still remain to be confirm by further study of the functional anti-tumor immunity of t/nk cell of aml in remission .
association of glucocorticoid insensitivity with increase expression of glucocorticoid receptor beta .
in many chronic inflammatory disorder , glucocorticoid ( gc ) insensitivity be a challenging clinical problem associate with life-threatening disease progression .
the molecular basis of gc insensitivity , however , be unknown .
alternative splicing of the gc receptor ( r ) pre-messenger rna generate a second gcr , term gcr-beta , which do not bind gc but antagonize the transactivating activity of the classic gcr , term gcr-alpha .
in the current study , we demonstrate that gc-insensitive asthma be associate with a significantly high number of gcr-beta -immunoreactive cell in peripheral blood than gc-sensitive asthmatic or normal control .
furthermore , we show that patient with gc-insensitive asthma have cytokine-induced abnormality in the dna binding capability of the gcr .
these abnormality can be reproduce by transfection of cell line with the gcr-beta gene result in significant reduction of their gcr-alpha dna binding capacity .
we conclude that increase expression of gcr-beta be cytokine inducible and may account for gc insensitivity in this common inflammatory condition .
evidence that calcineurin be rate-limiting for primary human lymphocyte activation .
cyclosporine ( csa ) be both a clinical immunosuppressive drug and a probe to dissect intracellular signaling pathway .
in vitro , csa inhibit lymphocyte gene activation by inhibit the phosphatase activity of calcineurin ( cn ) .
in clinical use , csa treatment inhibit 50-75 % of cn activity in circulate leukocyte .
we model this degree of cn inhibition in primary human leukocyte in vitro in order to study the effect of partial cn inhibition on the downstream signaling event that lead to gene activation .
in csa -treated leukocyte stimulate by calcium ionophore , the degree of reduction in cn activity be accompany by a similar degree of inhibition of each event test : dephosphorylation of nuclear factor of activate t cell protein , nuclear dna binding , activation of a transfected reporter gene construct , ifn-gamma and il-2 mrna accumulation , and ifn-gamma production .
furthermore , the degree of cn inhibition be reflect by a similar degree of reduction in lymphocyte proliferation and ifn-gamma production in the allogeneic mixed lymphocyte culture .
these data support the conclusion that cn activity be rate-limiting for the activation of primary human t lymphocyte .
thus , the reduction of cn activity observe in csa -treated patient be accompany by a similar degree of reduction in lymphocyte gene activation , and account for the immunosuppression observe .
cloning of a human homeobox gene that resemble a diverged drosophila homeobox gene and be express in activate lymphocyte .
a new homeobox gene , hb24 , have be isolate from a human b-lymphocyte cdna library .
northern blot analysis of polyadenylated rna purify from activate human b cell reveal a single mrna transcript of approximately 2.3 kb .
two cdna clone be sequence and provide 2,250 nucleotide ( nt ) of dna sequence information .
there be a single methionine codon-initiated open reading frame of 1,458 nt in frame with a homeobox and a cax repeat , and the open reading frame be predict to encode a protein of 51,659 dalton .
when the homeodomain from hb24 be compare to known mammalian and drosophila homeodomains it be find to be only moderately conserve , but when it be compare to a highly diverged drosophila homeodomain , h2.0 , it be find to be 80 % identical .
the hb24 mrna be absent or present at low level in normal b and t lymphocyte ; however , with the appropriate activation signal hb24 mrna be induce within several hour even in the presence of cycloheximide .
characterization of hb24 expression in lymphoid and select develop tissue be perform by in situ hybridization .
positive hybridization be find in thymus , tonsil , bone marrow , develop vessel , and in fetal brain .
hb24 be likely to have an important role in lymphocyte as well a in certain develop tissue .
distinct role of the molecular chaperone hsp90 in modulate dioxin receptor function via the basic helix-loop-helix and pa domain .
the intracellular dioxin receptor mediate signal transduction by dioxin and function a a ligand-activated transcription factor .
it contain a basic helix-loop-helix ( bhlh ) motif contiguous with a per-arnt-sim ( pa ) homology region .
in extract from nonstimulated cell the receptor be recover in an inducible cytoplasmic form associate with the 90-kda heat shock protein ( hsp90 ) , a molecular chaperone .
we have reconstitute ligand-dependent activation of the receptor to a dna-binding form by use the dioxin receptor and it bhlh-pas partner factor arnt express by in vitro translation in reticulocyte lysate .
deletion of the pa domain of the receptor result in constitutive dimerization with arnt .
in contrast , this receptor mutant show low level of xenobiotic response element-binding activity , indicate that the pa domain may be important for dna-binding affinity and/or specificity of the receptor .
it be not possible to reconstitute dioxin receptor function with protein express in wheat germ lysate .
in line with these observation , reticulocyte lysate but not wheat germ lysate promote the association of de novo synthesize dioxin receptor with hsp90 .
at least two distinct domain of the receptor mediate interaction with hsp90 : the ligand-binding domain located within the pa region and , surprisingly , the bhlh domain .
whereas ligand-binding activity correlate with association with hsp90 , bhlh- hsp90 interaction appear to be important for dna-binding activity but not for dimerization of the receptor .
several distinct role for hsp90 in modulate dioxin receptor function be therefore likely : correct folding of the ligand-binding domain , interference with arnt heterodimerization , and folding of a dna-binding conformation of the bhlh domain .
thus , the dioxin receptor system provide a complex and interesting model of the regulation of transcription factor by hsp90 .
a transcriptional regulatory element be associate with a nuclease-hypersensitive site in the pol gene of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 .
analysis of the chromatin organization of the integrate human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) genome have previously reveal a major constitutive dnase i-hypersensitive site associate with the pol gene ( e . verdin , j . virol . 65 : 6790-6799 , 1991 ) .
in the present report , high-resolution mapping of this site with dnase i and micrococcal nuclease identify a nucleosome-free region center around nucleotide ( nt ) 4490 to 4766 .
a 500-bp fragment encompass this hypersensitive site ( nt 4481 to 4982 ) exhibit transcription-enhancing activity ( two- to threefold ) when it be clone in it natural position with respect to the hiv-1 promoter after transient transfection in u937 and cem cell .
use in vitro footprinting and gel shift assay , we have identify four distinct bind site for nuclear protein within this positive regulatory element .
site b ( nt 4519 to 4545 ) specifically bind four distinct nuclear protein complex : a ubiquitous factor , a t-cell-specific factor , a b-cell-specific factor , and the monocyte/macrophage- and b-cell-specific transcription factor pu.1/spi-1 .
in most hiv-1 isolates in which this pu box be not conserve , it be replace by a bind site for the related factor ets1 .
factor bind to site c ( nt 4681 to 4701 ) have a dna-binding specificity similar to that of factor bind to site b , except for pu.1/spi-1 .
a gc box contain a bind site for sp1 be identify ( nt 4623 to 4631 ) .
site d ( nt 4816 to 4851 ) specifically bind a ubiquitously express factor .
these result identify a transcriptional regulatory element associate with a nuclease- hypersensitive site in the pol gene of hiv-1 and suggest that it activity may be control by a complex interplay of cis- regulatory element .
expression of c-fos correlate with ifn-alpha responsiveness in philadelphia chromosome positive chronic myelogenous leukemia .
this study evaluate ( i ) constitutive level of oncogene and p53 transcript in chronic phase cml patient and ( ii ) their modulation subsequent to in vivo therapy with rifn-alpha 2c .
peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) and bone marrow cell of 26 patient be examine for c-fos , c-myc , p53 and the hybrid bcr/abl mrna level .
result indicate that ( i ) constitutive c-fos transcript level be significantly high in patient subsequently respond to ifn-alpha therapy ( p < 0.01 ) and positively correlate with the proportion of lymphocyte ( r = 0.6895 , p < 0.01 ) and negatively with the proportion of immature cell ( r = -0.568 , p < 0.01 ) contain in the pbmc preparation test , ( ii ) constitutive mrna level of the hybrid bcr/abl , c-myc and p53 be positively correlate with each other , but fail to relate to disease parameter , and ( iii ) acute and chronic in vivo exposure to ifn-alpha be accompany by upregulation of c-fos and downregulation of c-myc mrna level in responder patient .
induction of rela ( p65 ) and i kappa b alpha subunit expression during differentiation of human peripheral blood monocyte to macrophage .
we evaluate the expression and dna binding activity of nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b subunit in human peripheral blood monocyte and in monocyte-derived macrophage ( mdms ) .
constitutive dna binding activity consist of p50 homodimers be detect in nuclear extract from both cell type .
an additional complex compose of p50/rela ( p65 ) heterodimers appear only in nuclear extract from 7-day mdms .
immunoblot analysis show that the p50 subunit be constitutively express in monocyte and mdms .
in contrast , the rela ( p65 ) subunit be barely detectable in monocyte , but it level increase markedly in mdms .
analysis of rela ( p65 ) mrna reveal that the stability of rela ( p65 ) mrna be significantly high in mdms , compare with monocyte .
in mdms , an upregulation of i kappa b alpha synthesis as well a the appearance of a novel m(r) 40,000 form of i kappa b alpha be also observe .
these result suggest that macrophage differentiation result in the expression of active p50/rela ( p65 ) heterodimers with the capacity to activate target gene expression .
the parallel induction of i kappa b alpha synthesis may allow for the continuous presence of a cytoplasmic reservoir of p50/rela ( p65 ) complex that be readily available for inducer-mediated stimulation .
all-trans retinoic acid and 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 co-operate to promote differentiation of the human promyeloid leukemia cell line hl60 to monocyte .
a basis for differentiation therapy of leukemia be provide by knowledge of agent which induce specific lineage maturation .
all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) induce differentiation of hl60 cell to neutrophil and be use to treat acute promyelocytic leukemia .
we observe that ra do not induce neutrophil differentiation in serum-free grow hl60 cell whereas 50 nm 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( d3 ) induce maximal monocyte differentiation .
increase ra concentration reduce the d3 concentration require for monocyte differentiation .
cell treat with 5 nm d3 show little response , but differentiate maximally with 5 nm d3 and 10 nm ra .
the d3 analog mc903 , eb1089 and kh1060 be more potent inducer of monocyte differentiation .
the extent to which analog activity be increase after cotreatment with ra be inversely related to potency .
twenty-four hour treatment with 10 nm ra prim cell for response to 5 nm d3 ; the reverse sequence be ineffective .
prim with 10 nm ra , or subsequent treatment with d3 ( 5 nm ) , do not alter expression of mrna encode receptor for d3 ( vdr ) , ra ( rar alpha ) or 9-cis ra ( rxr alpha , beta , gamma ) .
that ra promote both neutrophil and monocyte differentiation have implication for the use of ra and d3 in treatment of leukemia and provide insight into mechanism whereby rar , vdr and rxr facilitate monocyte differentiation .
[ hormonal interaction and glucocorticoid receptor in patient with the nephrotic syndrome ]
as many a 27 child aged 6 to 15 year with morphologically verify nephropathy be examine .
four variant of change in the thyroid status , characteristic of child with different variant of nephrotic syndrome be distinguish : 1 ) biochemical sign of primary hypothyroidism , 2 ) biochemical sign of secondary hypothyroidism , 3 ) low content of t3 , 4 ) dysfunction of the hypophyseal and thyroid system .
it be show that the low level of steroid receptor , thyroid hormone that the low level of steroid receptor , thyroid hormone ( t3 and t4 ) and cortisol be typical of child with the sign of renal dysplasia .
it be assume that superaddition under such condition of immune glomerulopathy ( glomerulonephritis and nephrotic syndrome ) give rise to the resistance to the treatment with glucocorticoid .
gene for a tissue-specific transcriptional activator ( ebf or olf-1 ) , express in early b lymphocyte , adipocytes , and olfactory neuron , be located on human chromosome 5 , band q34 , and proximal mouse chromosome 11 .
murine b lymphocyte , adipocytes , and olfactory neuron contain a dna-binding protein that participate in the regulation of gene encode tissue-specific component of signal transduction .
purification and cloning of this protein , term early b-cell factor ( ebf ) , from murine b lymphocyte and independent cloning of a protein , term olf-1 , from olfactory neuronal cell reveal virtual complete amino acid sequence identity between these protein .
a a first step towards identify a human genetic disorder or mouse mutation for which ebf could be a candidate gene , we have chromosomally map the corresponding locus in both specie .
by southern hybridization analysis of somatic cell hybrid panel with murine cdna probe , fluorescence chromosomal in situ hybridization ( fish ) of human genomic clone , and analysis of recombinant inbred mouse strain , we have find single site for ebf homologous sequence on human chromosome ( chr ) 5 , band q34 , and on proximal mouse chr 11 , in an evolutionarily conserve region .
nuclear factor kappa b , a mediator of lipopolysaccharide effect .
exposure of certain cell type to bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) lead to activation of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , an inducible transcription factor .
one of nf-kappa b 's unique property be it posttranslational activation via release of an inhibitory subunit , call inhibitor of nf-kappa b ( i kappa b ) , from a sequestered cytoplasmic form .
this event be also trigger under various other condition of biomedical importance .
other bacterial toxin , tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) , interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) , t cell mitogen , uv light , gamma ray and oxidative stress be report to induce nf-kappa b .
the activated form of nf-kappa b , which be rapidly take up into nucleus , initiate transcription from immediate early gene in a wide variety of cell type .
most of the target gene for nf-kappa b be of relevance for the immune response and can be group into those encoding cytokine , cell surface receptor , acute phase protein and viral genome , such a that of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) .
we will discuss recent experimental evidence suggest that lp might share a pathway of nf-kappa b activation with other inducer of the factor .
this common pathway may involve reactive oxygen intermediate ( roi ) a messenger molecule .
a newly established megakaryoblastic/erythroid cell line that differentiate to red cell in the presence of erythropoietin and produce platelet-like particle .
in august , 1992 , we establish a leukemic cell line ( ns-meg ) from a patient in megakaryoblastic transformation of philadelphia chromosome-positive chronic myeloid leukemia .
the ns-meg cell be positive for alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase and periodic acid-schiff ( pa ) staining and for surface cd4 , cd7 , cd13 , cd34 , cd41a , and glycophorin a antigen .
ultrastructurally , the cell have alpha-granules , demarcation membrane , and platelet peroxidase activity .
the ns-meg cell spontaneously produce platelet-like particle which contain alpha-granules , mitochondrion and dense body , strongly suggest platelet production .
erythropoietin ( epo ) , granulocyte/macrophage colony stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , and interleukin 3 ( il-3 ) promote the growth of ns-meg cell .
phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate increase the expression of both cd41a and cd61 antigen .
ten-day exposure to epo induce mature erythroblast and red cell .
these benzidine-positive cell be positive for hemoglobin f staining .
untreated ns-meg cell express mrna for the epo receptor ( epor ) , for gata-1 , and for alpha 1 , alpha 2 and gamma globin gene .
these result indicate that ns-meg cell undergo terminal differentiation of both megakaryocytic and erythroid lineage .
this cell line should be a very useful tool for the investigation of both megakaryocytic and erythroid maturation .
nitric oxide decrease cytokine -induced endothelial activation .
nitric oxide selectively reduce endothelial expression of adhesion molecule and proinflammatory cytokine .
to test the hypothesis that nitric oxide ( no ) limit endothelial activation , we treat cytokine-stimulated human saphenous vein endothelial cell with several no donor and assess their effect on the inducible expression of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 ) .
in a concentration-dependent manner , no inhibit interleukin ( il ) -1 alpha-stimulated vcam-1 expression by 35-55 % a determine by cell surface enzyme immunoassay and flow cytometry .
this inhibition be parallel by reduce monocyte adhesion to endothelial monolayers in nonstatic assay , be unaffected by cgmp analogue , and be quantitatively similar after stimulation by either il-1 alpha , il-1 beta , il-4 , tumor necrosis factor ( tnf alpha ) , or bacterial lipopolysaccharide .
no also decrease the endothelial expression of other leukocyte adhesion molecule ( e-selectin and to a less extent , intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ) and secretable cytokine ( il-6 and il-8 ) .
inhibition of endogenous no production by l-n-monomethyl-arginine also induce the expression of vcam-1 , but do not augment cytokine-induced vcam-1 expression .
nuclear run-on assay , transfection study use various vcam-1 promoter reporter gene construct , and electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicate that no repress vcam-1 gene transcription , in part , by inhibit nf-kappa b .
we propose that no 's ability to limit endothelial activation and inhibit monocyte adhesion may contribute to some of it antiatherogenic and antiinflammatory property within the vessel wall .
the proximal regulatory element of the interferon-gamma promoter mediate selective expression in t cell .
interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) be produce by natural killer cell and certain subset of t cell , but the basis for it selective expression be unknown .
within the region between -108 and -40 base pair of the ifn-gamma promoter be two conserve and essential regulatory element , which confer activation-specific expression in t cell .
this report describe study indicate that the most proximal of these two regulatory element be an important determinant of it restricted expression .
the proximal element be a composite site that bind member of the creb/atf , ap-1 , and octamer family of transcription factor .
jun be essential for activation-induced transcription and bind preferably a a heterodimer with atf-2 .
in contrast , creb appear to dampen transcription from this element .
the cpg dinucleotide in this element be selectively methylated in th2 t cell and other cell that do not express ifn-gamma , and methylation markedly reduce transcription factor binding .
a a target for dna methylation and for binding of transcription factor that mediate or impede transcription , this element appear to play a central role in control ifn-gamma expression .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 nef protein down-regulates transcription factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 in human t cell in vitro after t-cell receptor stimulation .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) negative factor ( nef ) have be show to down-regulate the transcription factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 in vitro .
to define the mechanism of action of the nef protein , the signal transduction pathway which may be affect in t cell by constitutive expression of the nef gene be examine .
stimulation of t cell with tumor necrosis factor , interleukin-1 , or lipopolysaccharide result in the recruitment of transcriptional factor to a similar level whether or not the cell express the nef gene .
on the other hand , stimulation of t cell by mitogen or antibody to the t-cell receptor ( tcr ) - cd3 complex result in the down-regulation of transcriptional factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 in cell express the nef gene compare with cell not express the nef gene .
because the nef protein do not affect the surface expression of the cd3 -tcr complex , we conclude that the nef protein down-regulates the transcriptional factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 in t cell in vitro through an effect on the tcr-dependent signal transduction pathway .
constitutive expression of specific interferon isotypes in peripheral blood leukocyte from normal individual and in promonocytic u937 cell .
constitutive expression of ifn-alpha5 and ifn-beta be detect in different lymphoid cell include peripheral blood mononuclear cell from normal individual follow amplification of ifn mrna by reverse transcriptase -polymerase chain reaction and direct sequencing of the amplify product .
the activated form of the interferon-induced transcription factor complex isgf3 be also detect in nuclear extract from uninduced cell .
culture supernatant from uninduced u937 cell be also find to activate an isre clone upstream of the luciferase reporter gene , indicate the presence of endogenous ifn activity equivalent to approximately 0.3 to 0.5 iu/ml .
this endogenous ifn be also show to play a role in maintain the basal level of expression of the major histocompatibility class i gene in lymphoid cell .
these result suggest that ifn-alpha5 and ifn-beta be produce at low level in normal tissue and play an important role in the regulation of cell function and in the maintenance of homeostasis .
identification of sequence alteration in the upstream regulatory region of the estrogen receptor gene in an er-negative breast cancer cell line .
given the important role of the estrogen receptor ( er ) in the development and physiology of the breast , it be essential to delineate the mechanism responsible for it failed expression in some breast tumor .
we have clone and sequence a portion of the er upstream regulatory region from the er -positive mcf-7 and the er -negative mda-mb-231 breast cancer cell line to determine if sequence alteration in this region account for the er -negative phenotype of some tumor .
from this , we identify a number of variation between the sequence , two of which be determine to be associate with a 50 % decrease in cat activity .
calcium -dependent immediate-early gene induction in lymphocyte be negatively regulate by p21ha-ras .
the induction of immediate-early ( ie ) response gene , such a egr-1 , c-fos , and c-jun , occur rapidly after the activation of t lymphocyte .
the process of activation involve calcium mobilization , activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) , and phosphorylation of tyrosine kinase .
p21(ras) , a guanine nucleotide binding factor , mediate t-cell signal transduction through pkc -dependent and pkc -independent pathway .
the involvement of p21(ras) in the regulation of calcium -dependent signal have be suggest through analysis of it role in the activation of nf-at .
we have investigate the induction of the ie gene in response to calcium signal in jurkat cell ( in the presence of activate p21(ras) ) and their correlate consequence .
the expression of activate p21(ras) negatively regulate the induction of ie gene by calcium ionophore .
this inhibition of calcium -activated ie gene induction be reverse by treatment with cyclosporin a , suggest the involvement of calcineurin in this regulation .
a late result of inhibition of this activation pathway by p21(ras) be down-regulation of the activity of the transcription factor ap-1 and subsequent coordinate reduction in il-2 gene expression and protein production .
these result suggest that p2l(ras) be an essential mediator in generate not only positive but also negative modulatory mechanism control the competence of t cell in response to inductive stimulation .
hiv do not replicate in naive cd4 t cell stimulate with cd3/cd28 .
in this report , we demonstrate that the t cell tropic strain of hiv , lai , do not replicate in naive cd4 t cell stimulate by cross-linking cd3 and cd28 .
in contrast , lai replicate well in memory cd4 t cell stimulate in the same way .
unlike this physiologically relevant stimulation , pha stimulate productive lai replication in both naive and memory t cell .
these study be conduct with highly purify ( facs-isolated ) subset of cd4 t cell identify by expression of both cd45ra and cd62l .
remixing of purify t cell show that naive t cell do not suppress lai replication in memory t cell and that memory t cell do not restore lai expression in naive t cell .
the suppression of productive lai replication in naive t cell be not due to differential expression of viral coreceptors , nor be it due to inhibition of activation of the important hiv transcription factor , nuclear factor-kappab and activator protein-1 .
the inherent resistance of naive t cell to productive hiv infection , couple with their proliferative advantage a demonstrate here , provide a sound basis for proposed clinical therapy use ex vivo expansion and reinfusion of cd4 t cell from hiv -infected adult .
inhibition of nf-at -dependent transcription by nf-kappa b : implication for differential gene expression in t helper cell subset .
activation of individual cd4+ t cell result in differential lymphokine expression : interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) be preferentially produce by t helper type 1 ( th1 ) cell , which be involve in cell-mediated immune response , whereas il-4 be synthesize by th2 cell , which be essential for humoral immunity .
the ca(2+) -dependent factor nf-atp play a key role in the inducible transcription of both these lymphokine gene .
however , while il2 expression require the contribution of ca(2+)- and protein kinase c -dependent signal , we report that activation of human il4 transcription through the ca(2+)-dependent pathway be diminish by protein kinase c stimulation in jurkat t cell .
this phenomenon be due to mutually exclusive binding of nf-atp and nf-kappa b to the p sequence , an element located 69 bp upstream of the il4 transcription initiation site .
human il4 promoter -mediated transcription be downregulated in jurkat cell stimulate with the nf-kappa b -activating cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha and suppress in rela -overexpressing cell .
in contrast , protein kinase c stimulation or rela overexpression do not affect the activity of a human il4 promoter contain a mouse p sequence , which be a higher-affinity site for nf-atp and a lower-affinity site for rela .
thus , competition between two general transcriptional activator , rela and nf-atp , mediate the inhibitory effect of protein kinase c stimulation on il4 expression and may contribute to differential gene expression in th cell .
gm-csf and il-2 share common control mechanism in response to costimulatory signal in t cell .
antigen complexed with major histocompatibility complex class i or ii molecule on the surface of antigen presenting cell interact with the t cell receptor ( tcr ) on the surface of t cell and initiate an activation cascade .
so call costimulatory signal , mediate by other cell surface interaction or soluble cytokine produce by antigen presenting cell , be also require for complete t cell activation .
high level of cytokine gene expression in t cell also require both tcr and costimulatory signal .
the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor require sequence in the promoter as well a a powerful enhancer located 3kb upstream to respond to tcr -like signal .
these promoter and enhancer region be mainly activate by the transcription factor nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) .
the activation of nfat by tcr signal have be well describe for interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and il-4 gene transcription in t cell .
costimulatory signal , such a activation of the cd28 cell surface molecule on t cell , lead to activation through a distinct region of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) promoter .
this region be term the ck-1 or cd28re and appear to bind specific member of the nf-kappa b family of transcription factor .
human t leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) infect t cell and can lead to increase gm-csf expression .
we have find that the htlv-1 transactivator protein , tax , act a a costimulatory signal for gm-csf and il-2 gene transcription , in that it can cooperate with tcr signal to mediate high level gene expression .
tax activate the gm-csf promoter through the ck-1 /cd28re region and also activate nuclear factor-kappa b bind to this region .
however , other transcription factor or coactivators of nf-kappa b be require for tax activation but these remain to be identify .
the ck-1 /cd28re of gm-csf show a high degree of similarity to the il-2 cd28re and the il-3 gene also contain a related region .
this observation , together with the fact that both gm-csf and il-2 respond to tcr signal via nfat , imply a high degree of conservation in the regulation of cytokine gene expression in t cell .
xenogeneic human serum promote leukocyte adhesion to porcine endothelium under flow condition , possibly through the activation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b .
endothelial cell activation and leukocyte infiltration be a consistent feature of discordant xenograft rejection .
here we evaluate whether xenogeneic serum , a a source of xenoreactive natural antibody and complement , induce endothelial cell activation with consequent leukocyte adhesion under flow condition .
porcine aortic endothelial cell ( paec ) be incubate for 1 hr 30 min or 5 hr with 10 % homologous porcine serum ( control ) or 10 % xenogeneic human serum and then perfuse with total human leukocyte in a parallel plate flow chamber under laminar flow ( 1.5 dynes/cm2 ) .
adherent cell be count by digital image analysis .
xenogeneic human serum significantly ( p < 0.01 ) increase the number of adherent leukocyte a compare with porcine serum .
a similar adhesive response be elicit by tnf alpha ( 100 u/ml ) , one of the most potent inducer of endothelial cell adhesive property , here use a positive control .
in order to elucidate possible mechanism underlie endothelial cell activation by xenogeneic serum , we focus on transcription factor nf-kappa b , a central regulator for the induction of different gene , include adhesive molecule and chemoattractants .
by confocal fluorescence microscopy , we observe a positive staining for nf-kappa b ( p65 subunit ) in the nucleus of paec expose for 1 hr 30 min to human serum , which indicate nf-kappa b activation in this setting .
at variance , in paec incubate with the homologous serum , nf-kappa b be strictly localized in the cell cytoplasm .
treatment of paec expose to xenogeneic serum with the nf-kappa b inhibitor pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate ( pdtc , 25 microm ) and tosyl-phechloromethylketone ( tpck , 25 microm ) significantly ( p < 0.01 ) reduce leukocyte adhesion in respect to paec treat with human serum alone .
finding that xenogeneic serum promote leukocyte-endothelium interaction possibly through nf-kappa b activation might be relevant for design future therapeutic strategy aim at prolong xenograft survival .
human mhc class ii gene transcription direct by the carboxyl terminus of ciita , one of the defective gene in type ii mhc combined immune deficiency .
type ii major histocompatibility complex combined immune deficiency ( type ii mhc cid or bare lymphocyte syndrome ) be a congenital immunodeficiency disease characterize by absent mhc class ii expression .
four distinct complementation group have be identify .
recently , the defective gene in group ii type ii mhc cid have be isolate and term ciita .
here , we demonstrate that ciita be an mhc class ii gene-specific transcription activator .
the transcription activation function be provide by the n-terminal acidic domain ( amino acid 26-137 ) , which be experimentally exchangeable with a heterologous viral transcription-activating domain .
the specificity of ciita for three major mhc class ii gene , dr , dq and dp , be mediate by it remain c-terminal residue ( amino acid 317-1130 ) .
the transactivation of multiple cis element , especially s and x2 , of the dr alpha proximal promoter in group ii cid cell be ciita dependent .
since ciita overexpression in normal cell do not increase class ii expression , we propose that initiation of ciita expression serve a the on-off switch , while availability of downstream interactor ( s ) limit transcription .
the candidate oncoprotein bcl-3 be an antagonist of p50/nf-kappa b -mediated inhibition .
the candidate oncogene bcl-3 be discover a a translocation into the immunoglobulin alpha-locus in some case of b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia .
the protein bcl-3 contain seven so-called ankyrin repeat .
similar repeat motif be find in a number of diverse regulatory protein but the motif of bcl-3 be most closely related to those find in i kappa b protein in which the ankyrin repeat domain be think to be directly involve in inhibition of nf-kappa b activity .
no biological function have yet be describe for bcl-3 , but it be note recently that bcl-3 interfere with dna-binding of the p50 subunit of nf-kappa b in vitro .
here we demonstrate that bcl-3 can aid kappa b site -dependent transcription in vivo by counteract the inhibitory effect of p50/nf-kappa b homodimers .
bcl-3 may therefore aid activation of select nf-kappa b -regulated gene , include those of the human immunodeficiency virus .
negative transcriptional regulation of human interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene by glucocorticoid through interference with nuclear transcription factor ap-1 and nf-at .
il-2 gene transcription be affect by several nuclear protein .
we ask whether dexamethasone ( dex ) and cyclosporin a ( csa ) inhibit il-2 gene transcription by interfere with the activity of nuclear protein that bind to the il-2 promoter .
nuclear extract from primary human t lymphocyte be analyze by electrophoretic dna mobility shift assay .
both dex and csa inhibit the binding of transcription factor ap-1 and nf-at , but not of nf-kb and oct-1/oaf , to their corresponding site on the il-2 gene promoter .
to correlate change in nuclear factor binding in vitro with transcriptional activity in vivo and define the structural requirement for il-2 promoter repression , we use transient dna transfections .
jurkat cell be transfected with plasmid contain either the intact il-2 promoter or it ap-1 , nf-at , and nf-kb motif .
dex inhibit the il-2 promoter and the ap-1 , but not the nf-at and nf-kb plasmid .
in contrast , csa inhibit the il-2 promoter and the nf-at , but not the ap-1 and nf-kb plasmid .
these result suggest that in human t lymphocyte both dex and csa inhibit il-2 gene transcription through interference with transcription factor ap-1 and nf-at .
we propose that , while maximum inhibition may involve interaction with both transcription factor , ap-1 be the primary target of dex .
association of alteration in nf-kappa b moiety with hiv type 1 proviral latency in certain monocytic cell .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication be control by a complex array of virally encode and cellular protein .
a wide spectrum of level of hiv-1 expression have be demonstrate in various cell , both in cell culture and in vivo .
molecular mechanism lead to restricted hiv-1 replication may differ between certain cell type .
it be now demonstrate that hiv-1 proviral latency in the monocytic cell line u1 , in which only extremely low level of hiv-1 expression be detect in the baseline unstimulated state , be associate with alteration in nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) moiety demonstrate in these cell by electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsas ) and in situ uv cross-linking study .
a predominance of p50 nf-kappa b moiety and possibly p50 homodimers or closely related specie , rather than the p50-p56 heterodimer of nf-kappa b that be the predominant nf-kappa b specie in most t lymphocytic and monocytic cell , be demonstrate in the nucleus of u1 cell .
this pattern of nf-kappa b-related moiety differ from the latently infected t lymphocytic cell line ach-2 , and from the u937 monocytic line , the parental cell line of the u1 cellular clone .
a such , these data suggest that different proximal mechanism may lead to restricted hiv-1 replication in various cell type .
t cell-specific negative regulation of transcription of the human cytokine il-4 .
il-4 secrete by activate t cell be a pleiotropic cytokine affect growth and differentiation of diverse cell type such a t cell , b cell , and mast cell .
we investigate the upstream regulatory element of the human il-4 promoter .
a novel t cell-specific negative regulatory element ( nre ) compose of two protein-binding site be map in the 5' flanking region of the il-4 gene : -311ctcccttct-303 ( nre-i ) and -288ctttttgctt-tgc-300 ( nre-ii ) .
a t cell-specific protein neg-1 and a ubiquitous protein neg-2 bind to nre-i and nre-ii , respectively , be identify .
furthermore , a positive regulatory element be find 45 bp downstream of the nre .
the enhancer activity of the pre be completely suppress when the nre be present .
these data suggest that il-4 promoter activity be normally down-regulated by an nre via repression of the enhancer positive regulatory element .
these data may have implication for the stringent control of il-4 expression in t cell .
corticosteroid receptor in lymphocyte : a possible marker of brain involution ?
a similarity have recently be find between the regulation of corticosteroid receptor in brain and in lymphoid tissue .
we have study the regulation of corticosteroid receptor in human mononuclear leukocyte a a possible marker of brain involution .
type i corticosteroid receptor be down regulate by excess of mineralocorticoid ( primary and secondary hyperaldosteronism , pseudohyperaldosteronism ) and of glucocorticoid ( cushing 's syndrome ) . type ii corticosteroid receptor be not reduce by excess of endogenous corticosteroid ( cushing 's syndrome ) .
in normal adult there be a direct significant correlation between plasma cortisol and type i and between plasma cortisol and type ii receptor in mononuclear leukocyte , while in cushing 's syndrome the correlation be inverse between plasma cortisol at 8 a.m. and type ii receptor .
in an aged population the mean number of type i and of type ii receptor be low and plasma cortisol be high than in adult control , but the increase of plasma cortisol be not follow by a clinical picture of hypercorticism .
corticosteroid type i and type ii receptor be inversely correlate with age .
after dexamethasone suppression ( 1 mg at 11 p.m. ) type i receptor always decrease in control while the response of type ii be not homogeneous .
in an aged group of patient , both receptor be reduce by dexamethasone .
we conclude that the decrease with age of corticosteroid receptor be possibly related to a physiological involution of corticosteroid receptor and that this reduction do increase plasma cortisol concentration , without affect the glucocorticoid effector mechanism .
circumvention of tolerance for the nuclear t cell protein tcf-1 by immunization of tcf-1 knock-out mouse .
molecular event that underlie the well-defined phenotypic change of the differentiate thymocyte be poorly understand .
a candidate gene to control thymocyte differentiation , t cell factor-1 ( tcf-1 ) * encode a dna-binding protein .
it mrna expression pattern be complex during embryogenesis , yet restricted to lymphocyte postnatally .
expression study on tcf-1 protein have be hamper by the difficulty to raise antibody due to extreme evolutionary conservation .
tcf-1 knock-out mouse , generate recently in our laboratory , have strongly decrease number of thymocytes , but be otherwise normal .
we have use these mouse to generate anti- tcf-1 antibody .
by immunization with a recombinant fusion protein , we show that tcf-1 knock-out mouse readily yield antiserum titer against human and mouse tcf-1 protein .
wild-type littermates remain unresponsive to tcf-1 while they mount a high-titer antibody response to the fusion protein , maltose binding protein ( mbp ) .
subsequently , tcf-1 -specific hybridoma could be prepare from the spleen of immunize knock-out mouse .
this study illustrate the almost complete tolerance of mouse for human tcf-1 and demonstrate that this tolerance be readily break by gene knock-out .
furthermore , the usefulness of knock-out mouse for the generation of monoclonal antibody against the gene product of interest be underscore .
usf-related transcription factor , hiv-tf1 , stimulate transcription of human immunodeficiency virus-1 .
the transcription factor hiv-tf1 , which bind to a region about 60 bp upstream from the enhancer of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 ( hiv-1 ) , be purify from human b cell .
hiv-tf1 have a molecular weight of 39,000 .
binding of hiv-tf1 to the hiv long terminal repeat ( ltr ) activate transcription from the hiv promoter in vitro .
the hiv-tf1 -binding site in hiv ltr be similar to the site recognize by upstream stimulatory factor ( usf ) in the adenovirus major late promoter .
dna-binding property of hiv-tf1 suggest that hiv-tf1 might be identical or related to usf .
interestingly , treatment of purify hiv-tf1 by phosphatase greatly reduce it dna-binding activity , suggest that phosphorylation of hiv-tf1 be essential for dna binding .
the disruption of hiv-tf1 -binding site induce a 60 % decrease in the level of transcription from the hiv promoter in vivo .
these result suggest that hiv-tf1 be involve in transcriptional regulation of hiv-1 .
transcriptional control of steroid-regulated apoptosis in murine thymoma cell .
early study in murine t cell line indicate that transcriptional transactivation function encode in the glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) n-terminal domain be require for glucocorticoid -mediated apoptosis .
however , more recent study in human t cell line have suggest that the n-terminal domain be not necessary for steroid-regulated apoptosis and that gr -mediated transrepression may be the more critical mechanism .
to well understand the contribution of the gr n-terminal transactivation domain in mediate murine thymocyte apoptosis , we stably transfected gr , gr variant , and the androgen receptor ( ar ) into receptor-negative s49 murine thymoma cell .
gr expression level be show to be rate-limiting for initiate the apoptotic pathway , and a positive correlation between steroid sensitivity and gr -mediated induction of an integrate mouse mammary tumor virus ( mmtv ) ltr reporter gene be observe .
analysis of gr chimeric receptor contain the potent vp16 and e1a viral transactivation domain in place of the gr n terminus reveal that even low level expression of these receptor result in both enhance steroid sensitivity and mmtv induction , thus support a role for transactivation in apoptosis .
in contrast , we find that ar can initiate apoptosis in s49 cell after treatment with 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone , despite it relative inability to induce high level expression of mmtv .
to investigate this far , we examine the steroid-regulated expression of an endogenous thymocyte-specific gene call gig18 .
we find that gig18 be rapidly induce to comparable level by both ar and gr , demonstrate that ar can indeed function a a transcriptional activator in s49 cell and , moreover , that gig18 induction may be a marker of early apoptotic event in steroid-treated cell .
take together , these result support our conclusion that transcriptional transactivation be a necessary signaling component of s49 cell apoptosis , although an additional role for gr -mediated transrepression can not be exclude .
epstein-barr virus ebna3c repress cp , the major promoter for ebna expression , but have no effect on the promoter of the cell gene cd21 .
ebna3c be a potent repressor of transcription when bind to dna a a fusion with the dna binding domain ( dbd ) of gala .
a survey of promoter have reveal that the wild-type , unfused ebna3c can specifically repress expression from reporter plasmid contain the epstein-barr virus cp latency-associated promoter .
repression of cp activity require amino acid 207 to 368 , which encompass a region resemble a basic dbd adjacent to a leucine zipper dna binding motif and a site which bind to the cellular factor cbf1/rbp-jkappa .
however , amino acid 207 to 368 be dispensable when the protein be bind to dna a a fusion with the gal4 dbd , thus implicate this region in dna binding .
mutation of the cbf1/rbp-jkappa binding site in ebna3c abrogate repression , strongly suggest that cbf1/rbp-jkappa be necessary for target the viral protein to cp .
consistent with this result , mutation of the ebna2 response element ( a cbf1/rbp-jkappa binding site ) in cp also prevent significant repression .
in addition , amino acid 346 to 543 , which be previously define a important for the repressor activity of the gal4-ebna3c fusion protein , also appear to be necessary for the repression of cp .
since repression by these fusion be not observe in all cell type , it seem likely that ebna3c either depend on a corepressor which may interact with amino acid 346 to 543 or be modify in a cell-specific manner in order to repress .
these data be consistent with ebna3c contribute to the regulation of ebna expression in latently infected b cell through cbf1/rbp-jkappa and another factor , but this need not directly involve ebna2 .
finally , although it have be report that ebna3c can upregulate cd21 in some b cell , we be unable to demonstrate any effect of ebna3c on reporter plasmid which contain the cd21 promoter .
lipopolysaccharide induce phosphorylation of mad3 and activation of c-rel and related nf-kappa b protein in human monocytic thp-1 cell .
many effect of lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) on gene expression , include that of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) , in monocytic cell be mediate by activation of kappa b dna-binding protein .
however , the specific member of the nf-kappa b /rel transcription factor family involve in the lp response , and the mechanism through which lp -generated signal be transduce remain unclear .
here we show that lp induce nuclear expression of c-rel/p50 heterodimers as well a p50/p65 ( nf-kappa b ) kappa b dna-binding complex in human monocytic thp-1 cell .
nuclear localization of these protein occur concomitantly with a rapid decrease in their cytosolic level and be independent of phorbol ester-sensitive protein kinase c .
within 24 h follow lp stimulation there be a striking increase in the level of c-rel , p105 , and p50 in the cytosol .
the increase level of these protein correlate with increase in the amount of their mrna during lp activation of thp-1 cell .
lp activation of thp-1 cell result in phosphorylation of mad3 ( an i kappa b -like protein ) , a rapid increase in mad3 mrna , and an increase in mad3 protein by 2 h .
thus , lp activation of human monocytic cell result in nuclear expression of c-rel /p50 and p50/p65 ( nf-kappa b ) and induce phosphorylation of mad3 .
thapsigargin induce il-2 receptor alpha-chain in human peripheral and jurkat t cell via a protein kinase c -independent mechanism .
thapsigargin ( tg ) , an inhibitor of ca(2+)-atpase , deplete intracellular ca2+ store and induce a sustained ca2+ influx without alter phosphatidyl inositol level .
tg plus phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) but not tg alone induce il-2 in jurkat t cell , suggest that tg have no effect on protein kinase c ( pkc ) .
however , tg induce increase in il-2r alpha protein as well a il-2r alpha mrna in jurkat t cell in a dose-dependent manner .
a similar increase in il-2r alpha by tg be also observe in human peripheral t cell .
far , like pma , tg markedly induce nf kappa b in jurkat t cell .
however , tg and pma exhibit a synergistic action on il-2r alpha expression , suggest that tg and pma induce il-2r alpha through distinct pathway .
pma - but not tg -induced il-2r alpha be inhibit by the pkc inhibitor h7 , whereas tg - but not pma -induced il-2r alpha be inhibit by cholera toxin , forskolin and 1 , 9-dideoxy forskolin .
in toto , these result suggest that tg induce il-2r alpha in human t cell through a pkc -independent pathway .
multiple transcription factor be require for activation of human interleukin 9 gene in t cell .
the genetic element and regulatory mechanism responsible for human interleukin 9 ( il-9 ) gene expression in a human t cell leukemia virus type i-transformed human t cell line , c5mj2 , be investigate .
we demonstrate that il-9 gene expression be control , at least in part , by transcriptional activation .
transient expression of the luciferase reporter gene link to serially delete sequence of the 5'-flanking region of the il-9 gene have reveal several positive and negative regulatory element involve in the basal and inducible expression of the il-9 gene in c5mj2 cell .
an ap-1 site at -146 to -140 be show to be involve in the expression of the il-9 gene .
a proximal region between -46 and -80 be identify a the minimum sequence for the basal and inducible expression of the il-9 gene in c5mj2 cell .
within this region , an nf-kappab site at -59 to -50 and it adjacent 20-base pair upstream sequence be demonstrate to play a critical role for the il-9 promoter activity .
dna-protein binding study indicate that nf-kappab , c-jun , and potentially novel protein ( around 35 kda ) can bind to this important sequence .
mutation at different site within this proximal promoter region abolish the promoter activity as well a the dna binding .
take together , these result suggest that the cooperation of different transcription factor be essential for il-9 gene expression in t cell .
activation of nuclear factor-kappab via t cell receptor require a raf kinase and ca2+ influx .
functional synergy between raf and calcineurin .
signal transduce via the tcr activate the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) , which , in turn , be critical to the transcriptional induction of many gene important for the proliferation and expression of a differentiate phenotype .
treatment of t cell with the protein kinase c activator pma in combination with ca2+ ionophores mimic this process , and the two agent be often substitute for tcr stimulation , bypass the tcr .
here we identify intracellular signal component involve in activation of nf-kappab follow tcr stimulation .
tcr signaling be trigger by treat jurkat t cell with pha or anti-cd3 ab , and nf-kappab activation be monitor by electrophoretic mobility shift assay and/or by kappab -dependent reporter assay .
contrary to the idea that protein kinase c be involve in tcr -mediated activation of nf-kappab , high dos of staurosporine do not interfere with activation of nf-kappab by pha , while the same dose of staurosporine completely block activation by pma .
pha -induced kappab-dependent reporter activity be , however , effectively block by a dominant negative form of raf-1 , suggest a critical role for a raf kinase .
the tcr -mediated activation of nf-kappab be also dependent on a ca2+ influx , because the ca2+ channel blocker , sk&f 96365 , as well a other agent that prevent the ca2+ influx , inhibit nf-kappab activation .
cotransfection of a constitutively active form of calcineurin largely substitute for the ca2+ requirement and reverse the blockade by sk&f 96365 .
consistent with these observation , coexpression of constitutively active form of raf-1 and calcineurin synergistically induce kappab -dependent reporter activity , suggest a physiologically relevant functional interaction between the kinase and the phosphatase .
inhibition of th1 development mediate by gata-3 through an il-4-independent mechanism .
recently , the transcription factor gata-3 be show to be selectively express in th2 but not th1 cell and to augment th2-specific cytokine .
here , we show that loss of gata-3 expression by develop th1 cell require il-12 signaling through stat4 and do not simply result from an absence of il-4 .
moreover , we demonstrate a novel role for gata-3 in directly repress th1 development distinct from it positive action on th2-specific cytokine .
gata-3 inhibit th1 cytokine by a cell-intrinsic mechanism that be not dependent on il-4 and that may involve repression of il-12 signaling .
thus , gata-3 expression and il-12 signaling be mutually antagonistic , which facilitate rapid dominance of one pathway during early th development , produce a stable divergence in cytokine profile .
characterization of cytokine differential induction of stat complex in primary human t and nk cell .
cytokine , il-2 , il-4 , il-6 , il-7 , il-12 , and il-15 be key regulator of human peripheral blood t and nk cell activation and differentiation but the precise mechanism that give rise to their differential activity within these cell be not clear .
recent study reveal that a family of transcription factor , signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stats ) directly mediate many cytokine signal .
we analyze the activation of stats in primary human t and nk cell by a variety of specific cytokine .
we demonstrate that il-12 induce stat4 only in freshly isolate primary nk cell , but not in primary t cell , consistent with the lack of the il-12 receptor in rest t cell .
in contrast , il-4 induce different c epsilon gas dna-protein binding complex in both t and nk cell .
moreover , il-4 costimulation with il-2 or il-12 do not alter their own preferential gas -like dna binding pattern when c epsilon- , fc gamma ri- , and sie gas motif contain oligonucleotide probe be compare , suggest that induction of gas-like dna-protein binding complex by il-2 , il-4 , and il-12 be highly selective and represent one important factor in determine specific gene activation .
in addition , il-6 and il-2 synergistically induce homo- and heterodimerized stat1 alpha and stat3 in both nk and t cell , consistent with their report synergism in modulate perforin gene expression .
we far demonstrate that il -2 , -7 , and -15 induce multiple stat protein , include stat5a , stat5b , stat1 alpha , stat3 , and another unidentified fc gamma ri gas dna-binding protein .
finally , we observe that activate stat5a and stat5b protein form distinct fc gamma ri gas binding pattern in t and nk cell , suggest that they might have different role in gene regulation .
our data provide evidence that the differential response in gene expression and cell activation see in primary nk and t cell on direct stimulation with different cytokine may be a direct result of distinct activation of stat transcription factor .
acetylsalicylic acid and sodium salicylate inhibit lp -induced nf-kappa b/c-rel nuclear translocation , and synthesis of tissue factor ( tf ) and tumor necrosis factor alfa ( tnf-alpha ) in human monocyte .
we have investigate the effect of acetylsalicylic acid and sodium salicylate on the lp -induced synthesis of the pro-coagulant protein tissue factor ( tf ) and the pro-inflammatory protein tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , as well a the prostaglandin pge2 in human monocyte .
both drug dose-dependently inhibit lp -induced tf and tnf-alpha synthesis at the mrna and the protein level , and reduce pge2 production .
a evidence by electro mobility shift assay ( emsa ) and the use of a nf-kappa b prototypic probe , these drug probably exert their inhibitory effect by interference with the nuclear translocation of nf-kappa b/c-rel protein .
these data may expand the understanding of the anti-thrombotic and anti-inflammatory effect of these drug when activation of monocyte occur .
evidence for a trans-acting activator function regulate the expression of the human cd5 antigen .
interspecies somatic cell hybrid be generate by fuse the mouse t-lymphoma cell line , bw5147 , with normal human t lymphocyte at different stage of differentiation .
thymocytes , activate peripheral t lymphocyte , or an activate t-cell clone be use a human partner , respectively , in three independent fusion .
irrespective of the human cell partner use for fusion , a certain number of hybrid lose cd5 surface expression over a period of time in culture .
analysis at the phenotype and genetic level show that lack of cd5 expression be due neither to segregation of human autosome 11 , on which the cd5 gene have be map , nor to deletion of the cd5 structural gene .
furthermore , loss of cd5 surface expression correlate with the absence of specific mrna .
since these hybrid preferentially segregate human chromosome , these result indicate the existence of a non-syntenic trans-active locus , or locus , positively control the expression of the human cd5 gene .
ebf and e47 collaborate to induce expression of the endogenous immunoglobulin surrogate light chain gene .
early b cell factor ( ebf ) and e47 participate in the transcriptional control of early b lymphocyte differentiation .
with the aim of identify genetic target for these transcription factor , we stably transfected cdna encode ebf or a covalent homodimer of e47 , individually or together , into immature hematopoietic ba/f3 cell , which lack both factor .
in combination , ebf and e47 induce efficient expression of the endogenous immunoglobulin surrogate light chain gene , lambda5 and vpreb , whereas other pre-b cell-specific gene remain silent .
multiple functionally important ebf and e47 binding site be identify in the lambda5 promoter/enhancer region , indicate that lambda5 be a direct genetic target for these transcription factor .
take together , these data suggest that ebf and e47 synergize to activate expression of a subset of gene that define an early stage of the b cell lineage .
abnormal apoptosis and cell cycle progression in human expose to methyl tertiary-butyl ether and benzene contaminating water .
1 . in this study we hypothesize that in individual with certain genetic makeup , mtbe , benzene or their metabolite act a adduct and may induce program cell death .
2 . our study involve a group of 60 male and female subject who be expose to mtbe and benzene -contaminated water concentration up to 76 ppb for mtbe and 14 ppb for benzene , for a period of 5 to 8 year .
for comparison , we recruit a control group consist of 32 healthy male and female with similar age distribution and without a history of exposure to mtbe or benzene .
3 . peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) of both group be test for the percentage of apoptotic cell and cell cycle progression use flow cytometry .
4 . when apoptotic lymphocyte from expose individual be compare to apoptotic lymphocyte from the control group , statistically-significant difference between each mean group be detect ( 26.4 +/- 1.8 and 12.1 +/- 1.3 , respectively ) , indicate an increase rate of apoptosis in 80.5 % of expose individual ( p < 0.0001 , mann-whitney u-test ) .
mtbe and benzene -induced apoptosis be attribute to a discrete block within the cell cycle progression .
because cell cycle analysis show that in pbl from chemically- exposed individual , between 20-50 % of cell be accumulate at the s-g2/m boundary .
5 . one of the signal molecule which mediate program cell death be nuclear factor kappa-b ( nf-kappa b ) .
nf-kappa b be examine a one of the many molecular mechanism for mediate cell death by mtbe and benzene .
indeed , addition of inhibitor of nf-kappa b activation pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) , to the lymphocyte of the chemically-exposed group be capable of inhibit program cell death by 40 % .
this reversal of apoptosis almost to the control level by inhibitor of nf-kappa b activation may indicate involvement of this signal molecule in mtbe and benzene induction of program cell death .
transcription factor nf-kappab regulate inducible oct-2 gene expression in precursor b lymphocyte .
the pou transcription factor oct-1 and oct-2 regulate the activity of octamer-dependent promoter , include those that direct transcription from rearrange immunoglobulin gene .
unlike oct-1 , which be constitutively express in many cell type , oct-2 expression be restricted primarily to b lymphocyte and can be induce in precursor b cell by stimulation with bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
however , the precise factor that mediate this induction mechanism remain unknown .
in the present study , we monitor oct-2 expression in cell arrest for the activation of nf-kappab , an lp -responsive member of the rel transcription factor family .
despite stimulation with lp , disruption of the nf-kappab signaling pathway in precursor b cell lead to the loss of inducible oct-2 dna binding activity in vitro and the suppression of oct-2 -directed transcription in vivo .
this biochemical defect correlate with a specific block to oct-2 gene expression at the level of transcription , whereas the expression of oct-1 be unaffected .
the finding that oct-2 be under nf-kappab control highlight an important cross-talk mechanism involve two distinct transcription factor family that regulate b lymphocyte function .
eicosanoids in breast cancer patient before and after mastectomy .
in 19 patient with a malignant breast tumor , tumor tissue and blood be take to determine the eicosanoid profile and platelet aggregation .
value be compare with those of patient with benign tumor ( n = 4 ) , or undergo a mammary reduction ( n = 7 ) .
postoperatively , blood be take as well in order to compare pre- and postoperative value .
eicosanoids be measure in peripheral blood monocyte and mammary tissue by mean of hplc ; furthermore , txa2 , 6-keto-pgf1 alpha , and pge2 be determine by ria .
difference in pre- and postoperative value of cancer patient be see in plasma ria value : pge2 and 6-k-pgf1 alpha be significantly high preoperatively when compare with postoperatively , however , such difference be see in the control group as well .
compare to benign tumor or mammary reduction test material the eicosanoid profile of tissue obtain from malignant mammary tumor show important difference .
except for pgf2 alpha , hht and 15-hete no detectable quantity of eicosanoids be find in the non-tumor material , whereas in the malignant tumor material substantial quantity of a number of eicosanoid metabolite be present .
statistically significant correlation could be establish between patient/histopathology data and the result of the platelet aggregation assay , e.g. between menopausal status and adp aggregation ; oestrogen receptor ( +/- ) and collagen and arachidonic acid aggregation , inflammatory cell infiltration score and arachidonic acid aggregation and fibrosis score and adp aggregation .
the result show that eicosanoid synthesis in material from mammary cancer patient be different from that in benign mammary tissue .
the implication , in particular , in relation to future prognosis of the patient , remain obscure .
activation of transcription factor nf-kappa b by phagocytic stimulus in human neutrophil .
phagocytosis represent an important physiological trigger for the inducible expression of several gene in human neutrophil .
here , we report that a dna-binding activity primarily consist of the classical nf-kappa b heterodimer , p50/rela , be induce in phagocytosing neutrophil .
under these condition , nf-kappa b activation be find to be a rapid and transient response , reach a maximum by 10-15 min , and return to near-basal level by 30 min .
in neutrophil undergo the phagocytosis of opsonized yeast , the onset of nf-kappa b activation be parallel by a decline in immunoreactive i kappa b-alpha protein level , and the cellular i kappa b -alpha pool be replenish by 30 min , in agreement with our gel shift data .
we conclude that nf-kappa b activation could constitute one of the mechanism whereby the expression of kappa b-responsive gene be enhance in phagocytosing neutrophil .
to our knowledge , this represent the first demonstration that phagocytic stimulus can induce nf-kappa b activation in human neutrophil .
suppression of the human immunodeficiency virus long terminal repeat by cd8+ t cell be dependent on the nfat-1 element .
cd8+ t lymphocyte of hiv-1 infected individual produce a soluble factor that efficiently suppress hiv-1 replication at the transcriptional level .
we show here that the response of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) to mitogenic or tat -mediated activation be sensitive to the suppressive action of a herpesvirus saimiri ( hvs ) -transformed cd8+ t cell clone from an hiv-infected individual and supernatant from cd8+ t cell of hiv-1 -infected asymptomatic subject ( cd4+ > 350/microliters ) .
mutagenesis of nf kappa b or sp-1 element within the ltr result in no change in the ability of cd8+ t cell supernatant to inhibit tat- or mitogen- mediated ltr transcription .
however , the response to hiv-1 tat by a ltr in which the interleukin ( il ) -2 homology nfat-1 region be mutate result in almost complete elimination of suppression by cd8+ t cell .
this be not observe when the nfat-1 mutant ltr be activate by mitogen .
we have previously show that gene expression direct by the hiv-1 nf kappa b element be inhibit by cd8 + cell- derived supernatant ( copeland et al. , aid re hum retrovirus , 1995 ; 11 : 1321-1326 ) .
take together , these observation suggest that mitogenic activation , mediate primarily through the nf kappa b enhancer , be susceptible to cd8 -mediated inhibition , however , inhibition of tat -mediated activation may rely upon a different pathway that be nfat-1 dependent .
induction of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 by low-density lipoprotein .
low-density lipoprotein ( ldl ) be a well-established risk factor for atherosclerosis .
when endothelial cell be incubate with this lipoprotein in pathophysiologic amount , the cell be activate .
among the document cellular response to ldl be increase recruitment of monocyte , which be believe to play a major role in promote intimal plaque formation .
the finding present here link an atheogenic lipoprotein , ldl , with the induction of an adhesion molecule important in atherogenesis human ldl induce the vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 ) transcriptionally with an increase in mrna level through activation of the vcam promoter .
this effect be block by anti-vcam antibody .
after a 2-day incubation in ldl , the binding of nf-kappa b , which be believe to be a key oxidative-stress sensor for vcam regulation , remain at basal level .
in contrast , the binding activity of ap-1 and gata , on the other hand , be increase by ldl .
thus , a component of ldl -enhanced endothelial recruitment of monocyte be attribute to vcam-1 expression , which appear to be mediate through ap-1 and gata .
these data identify ldl a a vcam -inducer possibly distinct from cytokine and endotoxin .
suppression of human anti-porcine t-cell immune response by major histocompatibility complex class ii transactivator construct lack the amino terminal domain .
background : the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) be a bi- or multifunctional domain protein that act a a transcriptional activator and play a critical role in the expression of mhc class ii gene .
we have previously demonstrate that a mutate form of the human ciita gene , cod for a protein lack the amino terminal 151 amino acid , act a a potent dominant-negative suppressor of hla class ii expression .
porcine mhc class ii antigen be potent stimulators of direct t-cell recognition by human cd4+ t cell and be , therefore , likely to play an important role in the rejection response to transgenic pig donor in clinical xenotransplantation .
we be , therefore , interest in examine mutate ciita construct for their effect on porcine mhc class ii expression .
method : stable transfectants of the porcine vascular endothelial cell line piec with mutate ciita construct be test for sla-dr and sla-dq induction by recombinant porcine interferon-gamma .
transient transfectants of the porcine b-cell line l23 with the mutate ciita construct be test for the suppression of constitutive sla-dr and sla-dq expression .
t-cell proliferation study be perform use highly purify human cd4+ t cell .
result : in preliminary study , we demonstrate that transfection of the piec line with full-length human ciita construct result in strong expression of sla-dr and sla-dq antigen , thus establish the cross-species effectiveness of human ciita in the pig .
the mutate human ciita construct be , therefore , test in the pig .
piec clone stably transfected with one of these construct show up to 99 % suppression of sla-dr and sla-dq antigen induction and marked suppression of sla-dra mrna induction .
moreover , transient transfection of the porcine b-cell line l23 show up to 90 % suppression of constitutive sla-dr and sla-dq antigen expression in 5-8 day .
in functional study , interferon-gamma -stimulated piec clone transfected with this mutate ciita construct fail to stimulate purify human cd4+ t lymphocyte .
conclusion : mutated human ciita construct be potent suppressor of porcine mhc class ii expression .
sex and age distribution of 1,25(oh)2d3 receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from normal human subject .
specific receptor for 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 have be describe in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) .
we have try to find out whether these receptor could show any difference in sex or age distribution .
twenty two healthy men aged 21-66 yr ( mean +/- sd 41.0 +/- 13.6 ) and nineteen healthy woman aged 22-60 yr ( 38.9 +/- 13.9 ) have be study .
the mean dissociation constant ( kd ) be similar in both sex ( 1.35 +/- 0.70 x 10(-10) m in male , 1.13 +/- 0.66 x 10(-10) m in female ) , but the concentration of bind site ( nmax ) be significantly low in female ( 2.32 +/- 0.92 fmol/10 ( 7 ) pbmc v 4.43 +/- 1.38 fmol/10(7) pbmc in male ; p = 0.0001 ) .
neither kd nor nmax be significantly correlate with age .
no difference be find between pre and post menopausal woman .
further study be need to elucidate if this sex difference in pbmc receptor for 1.25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 be of any pathophysiological relevance .
characterization of the nuclear and cytoplasmic component of the lymphoid-specific nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) complex .
the lymphoid-specific transcription complex , nf-at , be involve in early gene activation in t cell and be assemble from a pre-existing , t cell restricted cytoplasmic factor and an inducible ubiquitous nuclear component within 30 min after activation through the antigen receptor .
recent study have implicate the family of ap1 factor a component of the murine nf-at complex .
evidence be provide here that the nuclear component of human nf-at contain the phorbol ester-inducible transcription factor ap1 ( jun/fos ) .
we far characterize which ap1 family member can assume this role .
antiserum to fo inhibit nf-at dna binding a do an oligonucleotide contain a bind site for ap1 .
constitutive expression in vivo of fo , and to a less extent fra-1 , eliminate the requirement for phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) stimulation , leave nf-at -directed transcription responsive to calcium ionophore alone .
overexpression of cjun or jund , but not junb , also eliminate the requirement for pma , indicate that many but not all jun- and fos-related protein functionally activate nf-at -dependent transcription in the presence of the cytoplasmic component .
nf-at dna binding can be reconstitute in vitro use semi-purified ap1 protein mix with cytosol from t lymphocyte .
fo protein be not need for this reconstitution , and although junb be not functional , it can participate in the nf-at dna binding complex .
finally , we have partially purify the cytoplasmic component of nf-at and show by elution and renaturation from sds-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis gel that it have a molecular mass between 94 and 116 kda and may have multiple differentially modified form .
phospholipase c gamma 1 overexpression and activation induce by interferon beta in human t lymphocyte : an isgf3 -independent response .
interferon exert their antiviral , antiproliferative and immunoregulatory activity by stimulate the expression of several gene .
such gene disclose a common element within their promoter , define interferon stimulated response element ( isre ) , which bind a nuclear factor ( s ) translocate from the cytoplasm to the nucleus ( isgf3 ) after the binding of interferon ( ifn ) to the specific receptor .
here we report the induction of the synthesis and of the hydrolytic activity of phospholipase c gamma 1 ( plc gamma 1 ) in human t lymphocyte by ifn-beta .
the increase level of plc gamma 1 become evident after 90 min of ifn-beta treatment and be still detectable after 24 h .
neither the plc gamma 1 overexpression induce by ifn nor the increase hydrolytic activity of the enzyme appear to be affect by pretreatment of the cell with the protein tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein , which be know to prevent the association of isgf3 component .
these result suggest that in human t lymphocyte ifn-beta can activate other transcription factor ( s ) distinct from isgf3 to regulate plc gamma 1 expression .
in addition , the ability of this enzyme to hydrolyse pip2 , also in the presence of genistein , imply the possibility that this enzyme can exert it hydrolytic activity independently of protein tyrosine kinase activation .
alpha-lipoic acid be a potent inhibitor of nf-kappa b activation in human t cell .
acquire immunodeficiency syndrome ( aid ) result from infection with a human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) .
the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) region of hiv proviral dna contain bind site for nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , and this transcriptional activator appear to regulate hiv activation .
recent finding suggest an involvement of reactive oxygen specie ( ro ) in signal transduction pathway lead to nf-kappa b activation .
the present study be base on report that antioxidant which eliminate ro should block the activation of nf-kappa b and subsequently hiv transcription , and thus antioxidant can be use a therapeutic agent for aid .
incubation of jurkat t cell ( 1 x 10 ( 6 ) cells/ml ) with a natural thiol antioxidant , alpha-lipoic acid , prior to the stimulation of cell be find to inhibit nf-kappa b activation induce by tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( 25 ng/ml ) or by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( 50 ng/ml ) .
the inhibitory action of alpha-lipoic acid be find to be very potent a only 4 mm be need for a complete inhibition , whereas 20 mm be require for n-acetylcysteine .
these result indicate that alpha-lipoic acid may be effective in aid therapeutic .
characterization of the murine cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor gene p27kip1 .
the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27kip1 play an important role in regulate cell-cycle progression .
p27kip1 directly inhibit the catalytic activity of cyclin/cdks ( cyclin-dependent kinase ) complex and/or interfere physically with cyclin/cdks activation by cak .
interestingly , the expression level of p27kip1 mrna be maximal in rest go t-cells and rapidly decline follow anti-cd3 activation .
we report here the cloning of p27kip1 gene from murine genomic dna and the functional analysis of the promoter of the p27kip1 gene .
the gene consist of at least three exon and span more than 5.6 kb of dna .
primer extension and nuclease s1 protection analysis reveal two major transcription initiation site .
the promoter region lack a tata box but contain potential bind site for the transcriptional factor include two sp1 , cre , myb and nfkb located at position -153 , -178 , -286 , -875 , and -1011 , respectively .
to analyze the regulatory mechanism control p27kip1 gene expression , we characterize the 5'-flanking region from nt -1609 to +178 .
the -326 to -615 region contain positive regulatory element .
soluble tumor necrosis factor receptor inhibit phorbol myristate acetate and cytokine-induced hiv-1 expression chronically infected u1 cell .
recombinant human tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) binding protein-1 ( r-h tbp-1 ) and recombinant human soluble dimeric tnf receptor ( rhu tnfr : fc ) be use to determine the relative contribution of tnf to phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) and cytokine-induced human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication in chronically infected cell line .
treatment of hiv-1 -infected promonocytic u1 cell with r-h-tbp-1 or rhu tnfr : fc reduce pma -induced hiv-1 p24 antigen production in a concentration-dependent manner , with a maximal inhibition of approximately 90 % .
maximal inhibition of p24 antigen production in t-lymphocytic ach-2 cell be 47 % with r-htbp-1 and 42 % with rhu tnfr : fc .
r-htbp-1 and rhu tnfr : fc also decrease p24 antigen synthesize by u1 cell in response to other stimulus , include phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) -induced supernatant , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor , interleukin-6 , and tnf .
addition of r-htbp-1 to u1 cell during the last 4 h of a 24 h incubation with pma still inhibit p24 antigen production by 15 % .
u1 cell stimulate with 10 ( -7 ) m pma release approximately 1 ng/ml endogenous tbp-1 with an initial peak observe at 1 h and a second peak at 24 h after pma stimulation .
r-htbp-1 also partially reverse inhibition of u1 cellular proliferation cause by pma .
both r-htbp-1 and rhu tnfr : fc block pma induction of nuclear factor ( nk ) -_kappa b dna-binding activity in u1 cell in association with decrease in hiv-1 replication .
we conclude that soluble tnf receptor can inhibit stimuli-induced hiv-1 expression and nk-_kappa b dna-binding activity in chronically infected u1 cell .
fa ligand induction in human nk cell be regulate by redox through a calcineurin-nuclear factor of activate t cell-dependent pathway .
fa ligand ( fasl ) on cytotoxic lymphocyte be important for mediate apoptosis of activate lymphocyte and other target cell .
we have report that nk cell function , such a proliferation , cell death , and killing activity , be subject to regulation by cellular redox status .
here , we report that expression of fasl protein and mrna in activate nk cell be also regulate by redox .
ligation of cd16 on il-2- preactivated nk cell result in reduction of intracellular peroxide level as well a induction of fasl expression .
this cd16 -induced fasl expression be suppress by oxidative stress , include thiol deprivation or treatment with hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) .
addition of thiol-reducing compound , such a l-cystine , 2-me , or n-acetyl cysteine , restore fasl expression .
these data suggest that cd16 stimulation require cellular reduce status for fasl induction in nk cell .
because fasl gene activation follow cd16 cross-linking be regulate by the nf of activate t cell ( nfat ) , we examine the effect of oxidative stress on nfat activation .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay reveal that both thiol insufficiency and h2o2 treatment suppress dna-binding activity of nfat and that addition of thiol-reducing compound reverse or even enhance it .
furthermore , these oxidative stress inhibit activity of calcineurin , a serine / threonine phosphatase that regulate nfat activation .
these result suggest that suppression of calcineurin and nfat activation be a mechanism by which oxidative stress inhibit fasl induction in activate nk cell and far support the hypothesis that thiol-reducing compound might be require for maintenance of optimal nk function under physiologic oxidative condition .
steel factor affect scl expression during normal erythroid differentiation .
steel factor be one of the growth factor that control the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic cell and scl , also know a tcl-5 or tal-1 , be a transcription factor involve in erythropoiesis .
in this report , we study the role of scl in the proliferation of human peripheral blood burst-forming unit-erythroid ( bfu-e ) and the effect of steel factor on scl expression in proliferate erythroid cell .
bfu-e -derived colony increase progressively in size , a determine by cell number , from day 7 to day 14 of culture , with the great increase in colony size ( 10-fold expansion ) occur between day 7 and day 10 .
scl protein level in bfu-e -derived cell be high in day 7 cell and decrease progressively from day 7 to day 14 of culture , suggest an association of scl with erythroid proliferation .
in contrast , scl mrna level do not decrease significantly between day 7 and day 14 cell , suggest that posttranscriptional mechanism be largely responsible for the decrease in scl protein observe .
the role of scl in steel factor -induced erythroid proliferation be then examine .
in bfu-e -derived colony culture with steel factor , colony size be significantly increase compare to control .
in day 7 and day 10 erythroid precursor culture with steel factor , scl protein be increase significantly compare to control .
the increase in scl protein level in early erythroid precursor stimulate with steel factor suggest one mechanism through which steel factor may enhance normal erythroid proliferation .
scl mrna level assess by northern blot in day 7 cell do not increase significantly in response to steel factor stimulation , suggest that posttranscriptional mechanism may also be important in the increase in scl protein observe in response to steel .
src-related proto-oncogene and transcription factor in primary human t cell : modulation by cyclosporin a and fk506 .
activation of t lymphocyte induce transcription of gene encode for lymphokine .
interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene expression be control transcriptionally by the cooperative activity of specific trans-activating factor that bind to the il-2 enhancer .
cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 inhibit the production of il-2 in t lymphocyte at the level of gene transcription .
a member of the src gene family , the lymphocyte-specific protein tyrosine kinase , p56lck , have be implicate in il-2 production .
csa be find not to inhibit lck gene expression , nor the activity of the lck gene product .
however , csa and fk506 inhibit the appearance of dna binding activity of factor that bind to the nf-at and ap-1 site in the il-2 enhancer .
since the induction of nf-at and ap-1 be induce by the same stimulus that stimulate il-2 production , these result indicate that the immunosuppressant action of csa and fk506 be exert at the level of these trans-activating factor .
the severe phenotype of female with tiny ring x chromosome be associate with inability of these chromosome to undergo x inactivation .
mental retardation and a constellation of congenital malformation not usually associate with turner syndrome be see in some female with a mosaic 45,x/46,x,r(x) karyotype .
study of these female show that the xist locus on their tiny ring x chromosome be either not present or not express .
a xist transcription be well correlate with inactivation of the x chromosome in female somatic cell and spermatogonia , nonexpression of the locus even when it be present suggest that these chromosome be transcriptionally active .
we examine the transcriptional activity of ring x chromosome lack xist expression ( xiste- ) , from three female with severe phenotype .
the two tiny ring x chromosome study with an antibody specific for the acetylate isoforms of histone h4 mark transcribe chromatin domain be label at a level consistent with their be active .
we also examine tow of the xiste- ring chromosome to determine whether gene that be normally silent on an inactive x be express from these chromosome .
analysis of hybrid cell show that timp , zxda , and zxdb locus on the proximal short arm , and ar and phka1 locus on the long arm , be well express from the tiny ring x chromosome lack xist dna .
study of the ring chromosome that have xist dna but do not transcribe it show that it ar allele be transcribe along with the one on the normal x allele .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
a novel form of the myeloid-specific zinc finger protein ( mzf-2 ) .
background : myeloid cell development be control by tissue-specific transcription factor .
human myeloid zinc finger protein ( mzf-1 ) be a putative transcription factor contain 13 zinc finger , and have be suggest that it regulate the development of neutrophilic granulocyte .
result : here , we have isolate the murine and human cdna which encode a novel form of mzf protein ( mzf-2 ) .
murine and human mzf-2 protein consist of 814 and 775 amino acid , respectively , and have identity of 75.3 % between them .
the c-terminal half of human mzf-2 , carry the zinc finger domain , be completely identical with that of human mzf-1 , whereas the n-terminal half of mzf-2 be different from the corresponding region of human mzf-1 , and be cod by distinct exon .
mzf-2 mrna be express in myeloid cell , particularly in the cell commit to the neutrophilic lineage , and down-regulated by g-csf .
conclusion : mzf-1 and mzf-2 mrna seem to be produce by the alternative use of two different transcription initiation site .
the distinct n-terminal half of mzf-2 carry two characteristic domain , a leucine-rich domain call ler and an acidic domain , which suggest a unique function of mzf-2 in neutrophil development .
cytokine signal network and a new era in biomedical research .
elucidation of the biochemical nature of the signal transduction pathway that regulate transcription and replication be the focus of attention in molecular biology .
this research may make feasible manipulation of growth and differentiation of mammalian cell , which in turn would have profound implication in biomedical research on cell and gene therapy , and development of pharmaceutical product .
cytokine control growth , differentiation , death , and function of cell of lymphocytic , hemopoietic system , and together with nerve cell provide a pertinent model to study intercellular communication and intercellular signal network .
this review outline general feature of signal transduction and several aspect of cytokine network be discuss with emphasis on : transcriptional regulation of th1 and th2-specific cytokine gene in t cell , the role of cytokine and their receptor in growth and differentiation of hemopoietic cell , and the manipulation of cytokine network .
inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 replication in vitro by a novel combination of anti-tat single-chain intrabodies and nf-kappa b antagonist .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) tat , an early regulatory protein that be critical for viral gene expression and replication , transactivates the hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) via it binding to the transactivation response element ( tar ) and , along with other cellular factor , increase viral transcription initiation and elongation .
tat also superactivates the hiv-1 promoter through a tar -independent mechanism , include tumor necrosis factor alpha-induced and protein kinase c ( pkc ) -dependent activation of nf-kappa b , and inhibitor of tat and nf-kappa b cooperatively down-regulate this tat -mediated ltr superactivation .
in this study , a combined pharmacologic and genetic strategy use two pkc ( nf-kappa b ) inhibitor , pentoxifylline ( ptx ) and go-6976 , and a stably express anti- tat single-chain intracellular antibody ( sfv intrabody ) be employ to obtain cooperative inhibition of both hiv-1 ltr -driven gene expression and hiv-1 replication .
treatment of cell with ptx and go-6976 result in cooperative inhibition of both hiv-1 ltr -driven gene expression and hiv-1 replication .
in addition , the combined use of anti- tat sfv intrabodies and the two nf-kappa b inhibitor retain the virus in the latent state for as long a 45 day .
the combined treatment result in more durable inhibition of hiv-1 replication than be see with the nf-kappa b inhibitor alone or the anti- tat sfv intrabodies alone .
together , these result suggest that in future clinical gene therapy trial , a combined pharmacologic and genetic strategy like the one report here may improve the survival of transduce cell and prolong clinical benefit .
pu.1/pip and basic helix loop helix zipper transcription factor interact with bind site in the cd20 promoter to help confer lineage- and stage-specific expression of cd20 in b lymphocyte .
cd20 be a b-lineage-specific gene express at the pre-b-cell stage of b-cell development that disappear on differentiation to plasma cell .
a such , it serve a an excellent paradigm for the study of lineage and developmental stage-specific gene expression .
use in vivo footprinting we identify two site in the promoter at -45 and -160 that be occupy only in cd20 + b cell .
the -45 site be an e box that bind basic helix-loop-helix-zipper protein whereas the -160 site be a composite pu.1 and pip binding site .
transfection study with reporter construct and various expression vector verify the importance of these site .
the composite pu.1 and pip site likely account for both lineage and stage -specific expression of cd20 whereas the cd20 e box binding protein enhance overall promoter activity and may link the promoter to a distant enhancer .
[ the value of the clinical test of glucocorticoid receptor of peripheral blood leukocyte in patient with chronic pulmonary heart disease ]
in order to inquire into the functional state of adrenal cortex in patient with pulmonary heart disease , the number of glucocorticoid receptor ( gcr ) of peripheral blood leukocyte in patient with chronic pulmonary heart disease be determine with radioligand-binding assay and the corresponding plasma cortisol level be assess with radioimmune assay .
the result show that the number of gcr in the patient be significantly reduce ( p < 0.01 ) and it be increase when their health state be improve .
however , it be still low than that in healthy subject ( p < 0.01 ) .
the number of gcr in the patient be greatly increase when these patient be treat with oxygen ( p < 0.01 ) .
no difference in plasma cortisol be find between the patient and the healthy subject ( p > 0.05 ) .
these result indicate that the function of adrenal cortex may be improve by the compensation mechanism of the patient , but the low gcr number be the result of lacking of oxygen in the patient .
the number of gcr may be improve by inhalation of oxygen .
therefore oxygen therapy be helpful in raise the activity of glucocorticoid receptor and control the development of the disease .
mutation of tyrosine 492/493 in the kinase domain of zap-70 affect multiple t-cell receptor signaling pathway .
the protein-tyrosine kinase zap-70 be implicate , together with the src kinase p56(lck) , in control the early step of the t-cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) signaling cascade .
to help elucidate far the mechanism by which zap-70 regulate these initial event , we use a dominant-negative mutant approach .
we overexpressed in the jurkat t-cell line zap-70 mutate on tyr-492 and tyr-493 in the putative regulatory loop of it kinase domain .
this mutant inhibit tcr -induced activation of nuclear factor of activate t cell by interfere with both intracellular calcium increase and ra -regulated activation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase .
moreover , tcr -induced phosphorylation of pp36-38 , think to play a role upstream of these pathway , be find to be reduce .
in contrast , overexpression of wild-type zap-70 induce constitutive activation of nuclear factor of activate t cell .
the zap-70 mutant study here could be phosphorylated on tyrosine when associate to the tcr zeta chain and be able to bind p56(lck) .
this result demonstrate that tyr-492 and tyr-493 be not responsible for the src homology domain 2-mediated association of p56(lck) with zap-70 .
our data be most consistent with a model in which recruitment to the tcr allow zap-70 autophosphorylation and binding to p56(lck) , which in turn phosphorylates tyr-492 and/or tyr-493 with consequent up-regulation of the zap-70 kinase activity .
zap-70 will then be able to effectively control phosphorylation of it substrate and lead to gene activation .
constitutively activate jak -stat pathway in t cell transform with htlv-i .
human t cell lymphotropic virus i ( htlv-i ) be the etiological agent for adult t cell leukemia and tropical spastic paraparesis ( also term htlv-i -associated myelopathy ) .
htlv-i -infected peripheral blood t cell exhibit an initial phase of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) -dependent growth ; over time , by an unknown mechanism , the cell become il-2 -independent .
whereas the jak kinase jak1 and jak3 and the signal transducer and activator of transcription protein stat3 and stat5 be activate in normal t cell in response to il-2 , this signaling pathway be constitutively activate in htlv-i -transformed cell .
in htlv-i -infected cord blood lymphocyte , the transition from il-2 -dependent to il-2 -independent growth correlate with the acquisition of a constitutively activated jak -stat pathway , which suggest that this pathway participate in htlv-i -mediated t cell transformation .
ubiquitinylation of transcription factor c-jun and c-fos use reconstitute ubiquitinylating enzyme .
recombinant c-jun and c-fos be ubiquitinylated by the ubiquitin carrier enzyme e214k , e220k , or e232k in the presence of the ubiquitin-activating enzyme , e1 .
addition of ubiquitin protein ligase e3 substantially enhance the e214k -mediated ubiquitinylation of c-jun and c-fos .
truncate c-jun and c-fos mutant protein include wbjun and wbfos be also ubiquitinylated under the same condition , suggest the site of ubiquitinylation be located within the dimerization and dna binding domain of c-jun and c-fos .
the e3-dependent ubiquitinylation of c-jun be inhibit upon the heterodimerization of c-jun with c-fos .
further addition of e220k significantly enhance ubiquitinylation of c-jun in the heterodimer suggest a regulatory role of e220k .
polyubiquitinylated c-jun , wbfos , and wbjun , but not e220k -ubiquitinylated c-jun , be readily degrade by the atp-dependent 26 s multicatalytic protease .
these result suggest that the temporal control of c-jun and c-fos may be regulate through the ubiquitinylation pathway , and the ubiquitinylation of c-jun and c-fos may in turn be regulate in response to the heterodimerization between them and the cooperation between e220k and e3 mediated polyubiquitinylation .
transcriptional activation of the macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene by il-2 be associate with secretion of bioactive macrophage colony-stimulating factor protein by monocyte and involve activation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b .
human peripheral blood monocyte ( mo ) constitutively display the beta-chain of the receptor for il-2 , whereas expression of the il-2r alpha-chain be not constitutive but inducible with il-2 .
here we report that binding of human il-2 to it bind site lead to transcriptional activation of the macrophage csf ( m-csf ) gene in mo result in accumulation of m-csf mrna and subsequent release of bioactive m-csf protein a demonstrate by elisa and inhibition of il-2 induced release of an activity-stimulating growth of monocyte-type colony by a neutralize anti-m-csf antibody .
transcriptional activation of the m-csf gene by il-2 be precede by enhance binding activity of the transcription factor nf-kappa b to it recognition sequence in the 5' regulatory enhancer region of the m-csf gene .
moreover , use a heterologous promoter ( herpes thymidine kinase ) construct contain the nf-kappa b consensus sequence , it be show that nf-kappa b binding by an il-2 -induced monocyte-derived nuclear protein confer reporter gene ( human growth hormone ) activity .
take together , our finding indicate that il-2 induce gene expression of m-csf in human blood-derived mo and provide evidence for involvement of nf-kappa b in transcriptional regulation of this gene .
two-site interaction of nuclear factor of activate t cell with activate calcineurin .
transcription factor belong to the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) family regulate the expression of cytokine gene and other inducible gene during the immune response .
the function of nfat protein be directly control by the calcium- and calmodulin- dependent phosphatase calcineurin .
here we show that the binding of calcineurin to nfat be substantially increase when calcineurin be activate with calmodulin and calcium .
fk506.fkbp12 drug-immunophilin complex inhibit the interaction of nfat with activate calcineurin much more effectively than they inhibit the interaction with inactive calcineurin , suggest that part of the interaction with activate calcineurin involve the enzyme active site .
we have previously show that nfat be target to inactive calcineurin at a region distinct from the calcineurin active site ( aramburu , j. , garcia-cozar , f. j. , raghavan , a. , okamura , h. , rao , a. , and hogan , p. g. ( 1998 ) mol. cell 1 , 627-637 ) ; this region be also involve in nfat binding to activate calcineurin , since binding be inhibit by an nfat peptide span the calcineurin docking site on nfat .
the interact surface be located on the catalytic domain of the calcineurin a chain and on an 86-amino acid fragment of the nfat regulatory domain .
nfat binding to the calcineurin catalytic domain be inhibit by the calcineurin autoinhibitory domain and the rii substrate peptide , which bind in the calcineurin active site , as well a by the nfat docking site peptide , which bind to a region of calcineurin distinct from the active site .
we propose that , in rest cell , nfat be target to a region of the calcineurin catalytic domain that do not overlap the calcineurin active site .
upon cell activation , displacement of the autoinhibitory domain by calmodulin binding allow nfat to bind additionally to the calcineurin active site , thus position nfat for immediate dephosphorylation at functional phosphoserine residue .
growth regulation and cellular change during differentiation of human prostatic cancer lncap cell a induce by t lymphocyte -conditioned medium .
human prostatic epithelial cell from an androgen-dependent lncap cell line be examine in response to conditioned medium ( cm ) derive from phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) -stimulated lymphocyte .
addition of cm cause a great than 70 % reduction of cell proliferation by cell counting and cell cycle .
these cell show g1 phase arrest and the clonogenicity be reduce .
the growth-modulating effect be dose-dependent and not due to cell lysis or apoptosis .
the binding of androgen to androgen receptor on these cell show approximately 50 % reduction , underline a proliferation reduction mechanism .
the prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) be downregulated to approximately 75 % during the process .
cell morphology show dendritic process extend from cytoplasm and other neuroendocrine cell characteristic .
the expression of several cytoskeleton and intracellular protein increase a determine by immunostaining on slide and by elisa procedure .
these include vimentin , correlate to cell shape change , cytokeratins 8 and 18 , associate with differentiate cell type of prostate epithelium , and neuron-specific enolase and serotonin , associate with neuroendocrine cell .
from these cellular change , we can infer that the cell growth be modulate along with induction of terminal differentiation .
activate t cell be demonstrate to be important in provide the modulating activity .
this growth modulator be semipurified and have an estimate molecular weight 13,000 to 24,000 da .
the activity be determine to be distinct from tgf , tnf , and some commonly known lymphokine .
the interaction between lymphoid and prostatic cell in growth and development be describe .
increase proliferation , cytotoxicity , and gene expression after stimulation of human peripheral blood t lymphocyte through a surface ganglioside ( gd3 ) [ publish erratum appear in j immunol 1994 jul 15 ; 153 ( 2 ) : 910 ]
previous study have suggest that gangliosides have an important role in cell signaling and recognition .
however , their specific function in these process have not be clearly define .
a mab , r24 , that react specifically with a cell surface ganglioside ( gd3 ) have be demonstrate to stimulate proliferation of t cell derive from human peripheral blood .
in this study , we have investigate the mechanism by which the r24 mab affect t cell function .
we have observe that the r24 mab stimulate gd3 + t cell proliferation , cytotoxicity , and surface marker expression of il-2r alpha-chain , il-2r beta-chain , hla-dr , cd11a , and cd11c .
additionally , ifn-gamma activity but not il-1 , il-2 , or il-4 activity be present in culture supernatant 72 h after r24 stimulation .
in some donor , increase il-6 and tnf-alpha activity also be detect after r24 treatment .
furthermore , r24 treatment result in translocation of c-rel , but little or no nf kappa b p50 or p65 , from the cytoplasm to the nucleus and an increase of nf kappa b binding complex contain c-rel and p50 .
this treatment also cause increase tyrosine phosphorylation of specific protein substrate .
r24 -stimulated increase in proliferation , cytotoxicity , and cell surface protein expression could be block by cyclosporin and staurosporin , indicate that cyclophilin/calcineurin and protein kinase c may be involve in the r24 signaling pathway .
additionally , herbimycin a , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , block the r24 -stimulated increase in proliferation but not cytotoxicity at concentration consistent with specificity for tyrosine kinase .
these result suggest that multiple biochemical pathway be involve in the activation of human t cell by r24 .
neutrophil and monocyte express high level of pu.1 ( spi-1 ) but not spi-b .
pu.1 ( the spi-1 oncogene ) and spi-b be closely related member of the ets transcription factor family , share similar dna binding specificity mediate by similar dna binding domain .
pu.1 and spi-b have be previously describe a be predominantly express coordinately in macrophage and b cell , but their expression in early hematopoietic stage and during the course of myeloid differentiation to monocyte and macrophage or to neutrophil have not be extensively investigate .
here , we report that pu.1 mrna be upregulated during myeloid differentiation of human purify cd34+ cell and murine multipotential fdcp-mix a4 cell , suggest that pu.1 be upregulated a an early event during differentiation of multipotential progenitor cell .
pu.1 expression be maintained at stable level during differentiation of myeloid cell line u937 and hl-60 to monocytic and neutrophilic cell .
pu.1 be express at high level in mature human monocyte and human peripheral blood neutrophil .
in contrast to pu.1 , significant level of spi-b mrna and protein be find only in some b-cell line and spleen but be not find in myeloid cell line , neutrophil , or macrophage .
in vitro translate spi-b protein can bind to pu.1 binding site in myeloid promoter and transactivate these promoter in nonmyeloid cell .
therefore , although pu.1 and spi-b may bind to similar dna control element and have redundancy of transactivation function in vitro , the lack of significant level of spi-b in myeloid cell make it unlikely that spi-b play a significant role in myeloid lineage development and gene expression .
in contrast , pu.1 be express at high level not only in monocyte and macrophage but also in neutrophil , indicate that pu.1 can activate gene expression in both major myeloid lineage .
characterization of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen gene promoter .
mnda ( myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen ) be an interferon alpha regulate nuclear protein express only in cell of the human myelomonocytic lineage .
to identify mechanism responsible for this lineage-specific and interferon-regulated expression , the 5' flanking sequence of the gene have be characterize .
two interferon-stimulated response element ( isre ) flank a multiple transcription start site region identify mnda a a tata-less interferon-regulated gene .
other dna element present include a cluster of myb site , several ets , an ets related pu.1 site and an sp1 site located within 600 bp of the transcription start site .
in addition , dna methylation be reveal a one of the possible factor in establish mnda expression .
the 5' flanking sequence have promoter activity which be elevate by interferon alpha .
the finding indicate that mnda expression be regulate by mechanism similar to other myelomonocytic cell specific gene and gene up-regulated by interferon alpha .
transgenic expression of pml/raralpha impair myelopoiesis .
the translocation find in acute promyelocytic leukemia rearrange the promyelocytic leukemia gene ( pml ) on chromosome 15 with the retinoic acid receptor alpha ( raralpha ) on chromosome 17 .
this yield a fusion transcript , pml/raralpha , a transcription factor with report dominant negative function in the absence of hormone .
clinical remission induce with all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) treatment in acute promyelocytic leukemia be link to pml/raralpha expression in leukemic cell .
to evaluate the pml/raralpha role in myelopoiesis , transgenic mouse express pml/raralpha be engineer .
a full-length pml/raralpha cdna drive by the cd11b promoter be express in transgenic mouse .
expression be confirm in the bone marrow with a reverse transcription pcr assay .
basal total white blood cell and granulocyte count do not appreciably differ between pml/raralpha transgenic and control mouse .
cell sorter analysis of cd11b+ bone marrow cell reveal similar cd11b+ population in transgenic and control mouse .
however , in vitro clonal growth assay perform on peripheral blood from transgenic versus control mouse reveal a marked reduction of myeloid progenitor , especially in those respond to granulocyte/_macrophage colony-stimulating factor .
granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor and kit ligand cotreatment do not overcome this inhibition .
impaired myelopoiesis in vivo be show by stress these mouse with sublethal irradiation .
follow irradiation , pml/raralpha transgenic mouse , a compare with control , more rapidly depress peripheral white blood cell and granulocyte count .
a expect , nearly all control mouse ( 94.4 % ) survive irradiation , yet this irradiation be lethal to 45.8 % of pml/raralpha transgenic mouse .
lethality be associate with more severe leukopenia in transgenic versus control mouse .
retinoic acid treatment of irradiated pml/raralpha mouse enhance granulocyte recovery .
these data suggest that abnormal myelopoiesis due to pml/raralpha expression be an early event in oncogenic transformation .
adaptor function for the syk kinases-interacting protein 3bp2 in il-2 gene activation .
syk-family tyrosine kinase be essential for lymphocyte development and activation .
use a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify syk kinases-interacting protein ( skip ) , we isolate 3bp2 , an abl sh3-interacting protein of unknown function .
3bp2 be selectively express in hematopoietic/lymphoid tissue and bind via it sh2 domain activate syk-family kinase in mammalian cell , include in antigen receptor-stimulated t cell .
in addition to zap-70 , the 3bp2 sh2 domain associate in vitro with lat , grb2 , plcgamma1 , and cbl from activate t cell lysates .
transient 3bp2 overexpression induce transcriptional activation of the il-2 promoter and it nfat or ap-1 element .
this activity be dependent on the sh2 and pleckstrin-homology domain of 3bp2 , and require functional syk kinase , ra , and calcineurin .
thus , 3bp2 be an important adaptor that may couple activate zap-70 /syk to a lat -containing signal complex involve in tcr-mediated gene transcription .
il-4 down-regulates il-2 - , il-3 - , and gm-csf -induced cytokine gene expression in peripheral blood monocyte .
il-4 , a product of the t-helper 0 ( th0 ) and 2 ( th2 ) subset , be originally describe a a b-cell stimulatory factor and have subsequently be find to suppress il-1 alpha , il-1 beta , il-6 , il-8 , and tnf-alpha gene expression in monocyte stimulate with lp , and to upregulate il-1 receptor antagonist ( il1-ra ) gene expression .
in this study we investigate the effect of il-4 on the expression of cytokine gene in monocyte evoke by other t-helper cell cytokine : il-2 , il-3 , and gm-csf .
il-4 down-regulated mrna accumulation of the proinflammatory cytokine il-1 beta , il-8 , and tnf-alpha in monocyte stimulate with il-2 , il-3 , and gm-csf .
il-4 also suppress the il-2 -induced il-6 mrna expression .
temporal analysis of the il-4 down-regulatory effect on the il-2- , il-3- , or gm-csf- induced proinflammatory cytokine gene expression in monocyte provide evidence that il-4 act predominantly on the post-transcriptional level .
this be support by the observation that the down-regulatory capacity of il-4 appear to be dependent on de novo protein synthesis .
il-4 do not exert significant influence on the induction of expression of il-1-ra or various csfs by il-2 , il-3 , and gm-csf .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
identification of target gene of the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct2 .
the oct2 transcription factor be express predominantly in b lymphocyte and play an essential role during the terminal phase of b cell differentiation .
the regulatory region of several gene specifically express in b cell contain functional bind site for oct2 .
nevertheless , none of the gene originally think to be regulate by oct2 be affect in their expression in oct2 -deficient b cell .
in an attempt to find such elusive oct2 target gene and to understand the molecular function of oct2 in b cell development , we isolate cdna for oct2 target gene .
so far , we have identify five potential target for oct2 : the membrane glycoprotein cd36 , the cysteine-rich secrete protein 3 ( crisp-3 ) , a mouse homolog of the human monocyte/neutrophil elastase inhibitor ( mei ) and two unknown cdna sequence nov1 and nov2 .
these target gene show quite distinct expression pattern demonstrate that transcription factor in addition to oct2 be involve in their regulation .
whereas cd36 and mei be express in all hematopoetic cell line contain oct2 , .
crisp-3 be pre-b cell-specific , nov1 be plasma b cell-specific and nov2 be b cell-specifically express .
b lymphocyte from patient with chronic lymphocytic leukemia contain signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) 1 and stat3 constitutively phosphorylated on serine residue .
to explore the pathogenesis of chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( cll ) , we examine whether phosphorylation of one or more signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) factor be abnormal in cell from cll patient .
no constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation be detect on any stat in cll cell .
to assess the phosphorylation of serine residue of stat1 and stat3 in cll cell , we raise antibody that specifically recognize the form of stat1 phosphorylated on ser-727 and the form of stat3 phosphorylated on ser-727 .
we find that in 100 % of patient with cll ( n = 32 ) , stat1 and stat3 be constitutively phosphorylated on serine .
this be in contrast to normal peripheral blood b lymphocyte or cd5+) b cell isolate from tonsil , in which this phosphorylation be absent .
serine phosphorylation of stat1 and stat3 be see occasionally in other leukemia , but it be a universal finding only in cll .
the serine phosphorylation of these stats be a continuous process , a incubation of cll cell with the kinase inhibitor h7 lead to the dephosphorylation of these serine residue .
the stat serine kinase in cll cell have not be identify , and appear to be neither mitogen-activated protein kinase nor pp70(s6k) .
in summary , the constitutive serine phosphorylation of stat1 and stat3 be present in all cll sample test to date , although the physiologic significance of this modification remain to be determine .
murine and human t-lymphocyte gata-3 factor mediate transcription through a cis-regulatory element within the human t-cell receptor delta gene enhancer .
a family of transcriptional activator have recently be identify in chicken ; these transcriptional activator recognize a common consensus motif ( wgatar ) through a conserve c4 zinc finger dna-binding domain .
one of the member of this multigene family , cgata-3 , be most abundantly express in the t-lymphocyte cell lineage .
analysis of human and murine gata-3 factor show a striking degree of amino acid sequence identity and similar pattern of tissue specificity of expression in these three organism .
the murine and human factor be abundantly express in a variety of human and murine t-cell line and can activate transcription through a tissue-specific gata-binding site identify within the human t-cell receptor delta gene enhancer .
we infer that the murine and human gata-3 protein play a central and highly conserve role in vertebrate t-cell-specific transcriptional regulation .
genomic organization , sequence , and transcriptional regulation of the human eotaxin gene .
eotaxin be an eosinophil specific beta-chemokine assume to be involve in eosinophilic inflammatory disease such a atopic dermatitis , allergic rhinitis , asthma and parasitic infection .
it expression be stimulus- and cell-specific .
we here describe the genomic organisation ( 3 exon of 132 , 112 and 542 bp and 2 intron of 1211 and 378 bp ) and sequence include 3 kb of dna from the immediate 5' upstream region of the human eotaxin gene .
among the regulatory promoter element potentially regulate eotaxin gene expression and/or mediate the effect of anti-inflammatory drug we identify consensus sequence know to interact with nuclear factor like nf-il6 , ap-1 , a nf-kappa-b like consensus sequence and gamma-interferon- as well a glucocorticoid response element .
phenylarsine oxide inhibit ex vivo hiv-1 expression .
phenylarsine oxide ( pao ) , which be describe a an inhibitor of tyrosine phosphatase activity , inhibit h2o2 release from human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmcs ) a measure by electrochemistry .
since human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication be know to be favor under oxidative stress condition , ex vivo experiment use uninfected pbmcs , primary monocyte or a latently infected promonocytic u1 cell line show that hiv-1 replication and reactivation , monitor by p24 antigen measurement , be inhibit by pao in a time- and concentration-dependent manner .
these observation can be link with the inhibition of nf-kappa b activation when uninfected monocyte be induce by either tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) or lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
pathogenesis .
there be many hypothesis concern the pathogenesis of endometriosis , though no single theory can explain all case .
it be likely that several mechanism be involve .
early study concentrate on the histogenesis of the endometriotic lesion .
recent evidence have implicate component of the immune system in the pathogenesis of endometriosis .
this review consider the evidence for different theory of the histogenesis of endometriosis and discuss possible immune factor that may be involve in the pathophysiology of the disease .
in vivo footprinting and mutational analysis of the proximal cd19 promoter reveal important role for an sp1/egr-1 binding site and a novel site term the pyg box .
cd19 expression begin at the pro-b cell stage of b cell development .
a such it serve a a good prototype for b cell-specific gene whose expression begin shortly after lineage commitment .
to understand the molecular mechanism control cd19 gene expression , we isolate and functionally characterize the cd19 promoter use in vivo footprinting , gel shift assay , and transfection study .
reporter construct span portion of the promoter identify a region between -85 and -200 that produce high level of reporter gene activity in lymphoid cell .
in vivo footprinting identify protected region over the known high affinity b cell lineage-specific activator protein ( bsap ) site , the low affinity bsap site , a sp1/egr-1 site term the cd19 gc box , and two novel site name the at box and pyg box .
phorbol ester treatment of a pre-b cell line up-regulated cd19 expression , induce egr-1 , and enhance the footprint over the gc box .
gel shift assay demonstrate sp1 and egr-1 bind to the cd19 gc box , while unknown nuclear protein bind the pyg and at box .
mutation in the at box or in the bsap site do not affect cd19 reporter construct activity , while a mutation of the gc box reduce it modestly , and a pyg box mutation reduce it dramatically .
bsap fail to trans-activate cd19 promoter construct in b cell or non-b cell , suggest that cis element such a the pyg and gc box be also necessary for high level cd19 promoter expression .
elf-1 and stat5 bind to a critical element in a new enhancer of the human interleukin-2 receptor alpha gene [ publish erratum appear in mol cell biol 1997 apr ; 17 ( 4 ) : 2351 ]
the interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain ( il-2r alpha ) gene be a key regulator of lymphocyte proliferation .
il-2r alpha be rapidly and potently induce in t cell in response to mitogenic stimulus .
interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) stimulate il-2r alpha .
transcription , thereby amplify expression of it own high-affinity receptor .
il-2r alpha transcription be at least in part control by two positive regulatory region , prri and prrii .
prri be an inducible proximal enhancer , located between nucleotide -276 and -244 , which contain nf-kappab and sre/carg motif .
prrii be a t-cell-specific enhancer , located between nucleotide -137 and -64 , which bind the t-cell-specific ets protein elf-1 and hmg-i(y) protein .
however , none of these proximal region account for the induction of il-2r alpha transcription by il-2 .
to find new regulatory region of the il-2r alpha gene , 8.5 kb of the 5' end noncoding sequence of the il-2r alpha gene have be sequence .
we identify an 86-nucleotide fragment that be 90 % identical to the recently characterize murine il-2 -responsive element ( mil-2re ) .
this putative human il-2re , designate prriii , confer il-2 responsiveness on a heterologous promoter .
prriii contain a stat protein binding site that overlap with an eb motif ( gasd/ebsd ) .
these be essential for il-2 inducibility of prriii /cat reporter construct .
il-2 induce the binding of stat 5a and b protein to the human gasd element .
to confirm the physiological relevance of these finding , we carry out in vivo footprinting experiment which show that stimulation of il-2r alpha expression correlate with occupancy of the gasd element .
our data demonstrate a major role of the gasd/ebsd element in il-2r alpha regulation and suggest that the t-cell-specific elf-1 factor can serve a a transcriptional repressor .
hla-dqb1 codon 57 be critical for peptide binding and recognition .
the association of specific hla-dq allele with autoimmunity be correlate with discrete polymorphism in the hla-dq sequence that be localize within site suitable for peptide recognition .
the polymorphism at residue 57 of the dqb1 polypeptide be of particular interest since it may play a major structural role in the formation of a salt bridge structure at one end of the peptide-binding cleft of the dq molecule .
this polymorphism at residue 57 be a recurrent feature of hla-dq evolution , occur in multiple distinct allelic family , which imply a functional selection for maintain variation at this position in the class ii molecule .
we directly test the amino acid polymorphism at this site a a determinant for peptide binding and for antigen-specific t cell stimulation .
we find that a single ala --> asp amino acid 57 substitution in an hla-dq3.2 molecule regulate binding of an hsv-2 vp-16-derived peptide .
a complementary single-residue substitution in the peptide abolish it binding to dq3.2 and convert it to a peptide that can bind to dq3.1 and dq3.3 asp -57-positive mhc molecule .
these binding study be parallel by specific t cell recognition of the class ii-peptide complex , in which the substitute peptide abolish t cell reactivity , which be direct to the dq3.2 -peptide complex , whereas the same t cell clone recognize the substitute peptide present by dq3.3 , a class ii restriction element differ from dq3.2 only at residue 57 .
this structural and functional complementarity for residue 57 and a specific peptide residue identify this interaction a a key control determinant of restricted recognition in hla-dq -specific immune response .
some antioxidant inhibit , in a co-ordinate fashion , the production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha , il-beta , and il-6 by human peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
some antioxidant , include butylate hydroxyanisole ( bha ) , tetrahydropapaveroline ( thp ) , nordihydroguiauretic acid , and 10,11-dihydroxyaporphine ( dha ) , be find to be potent inhibitor of the production of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -alpha , il-1 beta , and il-6 by human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) stimulate by lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) ( ic50s in the low micromolar range ) .
inhibition of cytokine production be gene selective and not due to general effect on protein synthesis .
inhibition of cytokine production by pbmc be observe also when other inducer be use ( staphylococci , silica , zymosan ) .
much high concentration of other antioxidant -- include ascorbic acid , trolox , alpha-tocopherol , butylate hydroxytoluene , and the 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor zileuton -- do not affect the production of these cytokine .
the active compound do not inhibit il-1 -induced production of il-6 in fibroblast , show the cell selectivity of the effect .
antioxidant-mediated inhibition of cytokine production be correlated with low level of the corresponding messenger rna .
nuclear run-on experiment show that thp inhibit transcription of the il-1 beta gene .
thp decrease the concentration of the transcription factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 detect in nuclear extract of pbmc culture in the presence or absence of lp .
thp and dha markedly decrease the level of tnf-alpha and il-1 beta in the circulation of mouse follow lp injection .
thus antioxidant vary widely in potency a inhibitor of the activation of transcription factor and of the transcription of gene for pro-inflammatory cytokine .
coordinate inhibition of the transcription of gene for inflammatory cytokine could provide a strategy for therapy of disease with inflammatory pathogenesis and for septic shock .
expression of bcl-6 protein in normal skin and epidermal neoplasm .
bcl-6 protein be a recently identify novel transcription factor whose deregulate expression be associate with diffuse large b cell lymphoma .
it be recently show by u that the protein be located in germinal center b cell and their neoplastic counterpart .
in the present study , the expression of bcl-6 protein on normal epidermis , benign , and malignant tumor originate from epidermal cell , and squamous cell carcinoma ( scc ) cell line be investigate .
with the use of immunohistochemistry , bcl-6 protein be show to stain intensely on normal prickle cell , but none to only slightly on epidermal basal cell .
papilloma and keratoacanthoma copy their normal counterpart in the mode of expression .
various level of expression be find on seborrheic keratoses , while the expression level on basal cell epithelioma be low .
peculiarly , eccrine poromas and undifferentiated spindle-shaped basal cell epithelioma be totally unstained .
squamous cell carcinoma show a variety of expression level , while two undifferentiated spindle-shaped carcinoma and one undifferentiated scc cell line remain unstained .
these result suggest that the expression of bcl-6 protein may be associate with morphological differentiation in normal and neoplastic epidermal cell .
mechanism of interleukin-10 inhibition of t-helper cell activation by superantigen at the level of the cell cycle .
we have analyze the effect of interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) on the entry of quiescent cd4(+) t cell into the cell cycle upon stimulation with the superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin b ( seb ) .
il-10 arrest cell at g0/g1 .
il-10 treatment prevent the downregulation of p27 ( kip1 ) , an inhibitory protein that control progression out of the g0 phase of the cell cycle .
il-10 also prevent the upregulation of the g1 cyclins d2 and d3 , protein necessary for entry and progression through the g1 phase of the cell cycle .
associate with the inhibition of the cell cycle , il-10 suppress seb induction of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) .
addition of exogenous il-2 to il-10 -treated cell significantly reverse the antiproliferative effect of il-10 .
moreover , il-10 effect on the early g1 protein p27 ( kip1 ) and cyclin d2 be similarly reverse by exogenous il-2 .
although this reversal by il-2 be pronounced , it be not complete , suggest that il-10 may have some effect not directly relate to the suppression of il-2 production .
cell separation experiment suggest that il-10 can effect purify cd4(+) t cell directly , provide functional evidence for the presence of il-10 receptor on cd4(+) t cell .
il-10 also inhibit expression of il-2 transcriptional regulator c-fos and c-jun , which also inhibit other cell function .
our study show that the mechanism of il-10 regulation of quiescent cd4(+) t-cell activation be mainly by block induction of il-2 that be critical to downregulation of p27 ( kip1 ) and upregulation of d cyclins in t-cell activation and entry into the cell cycle .
activation of the transcription factor mef2c by the map kinase p38 in inflammation .
for cell of the innate immune system to mount a host defence response to infection , they must recognize product of microbial pathogen such a lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , the endotoxin secrete by gram-negative bacteria .
these cellular response require intracellular signalling pathway , such a the four map kinase ( mapk ) pathway .
in mammalian cell the mapk p38 be think to play an important role in the regulation of cellular response during infection through it effect on the expression of proinflammatory molecule .
one mean of understand the role of p38 in these response be to identify protein with function regulate by p38 -catalysed phosphorylation .
here we demonstrate a link between the p38 pathway and a member of the myocyte-enhancer factor 2 ( mef2 ) group of transcription factor .
we find that in monocytic cell , lp increase the transactivation activity of mef2c through p38 -catalysed phosphorylation .
one consequence of mef2c activation be increase c-jun gene transcription .
our result show that p38 may influence host defence and inflammation by maintain the balance of c-jun protein consume during infection .
regulation of jun and fo gene expression in human monocyte by the macrophage colony-stimulating factor .
the macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) be require for the growth and differentiation of mononuclear phagocyte .
however , the signaling event responsible for these effect remain unclear .
the present study have examine the effect of m-csf on potential signaling pathway involve expression of the jun and fo early response gene .
low level of c-jun transcript be detectable in rest human peripheral blood monocyte .
treatment of these cell with 10 ( 3 ) units/ml human recombinant m-csf be associate with rapid and transient increase in c-jun mrna level .
nuclear run-on assay and mrna stability study demonstrate that m-csf regulate c-jun expression by both an increase in transcription rate and a prolongation in the half-life of c-jun transcript .
m-csf treatment be also associate with a rapid induction of the jun-b gene , although expression of this gene be prolonged compare to that of c-jun .
we far demonstrate that m-csf increase c-fos mrna level in human monocyte through control at both the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level .
maximal induction of the c-fos gene be follow by that for the fos-b gene .
moreover , m-csf -induced expression of the fos-related gene , fra-1 , be delay compare to that for both c-fos and fos-b .
take together , the result indicate that m-csf treatment be associate with differential activation of multiple member of the jun/fos family and that expression of these gene could contribute to nuclear signaling mechanism that regulate a specific program of monocyte differentiation .
nuclear association of a t-cell transcription factor block by fk-506 and cyclosporin a [ see comment ]
cyclosporin a and fk506 inhibit t- and b-cell activation and other process essential to an effective immune response .
in t lymphocyte these drug disrupt an unknown step in the transmission of signal from the t-cell antigen receptor to cytokine gene that coordinate the immune response .
the putative intracellular receptor for fk506 and cyclosporin be cis-trans prolyl isomerase .
binding of the drug inhibit isomerase activity , but study with other prolyl isomerase inhibitor and analysis of cyclosporin -resistant mutant in yeast suggest that the effect of the drug result from the formation of an inhibitory complex between the drug and isomerase , and not from inhibition of isomerase activity .
a transcription factor , nf-at , which be essential for early t-cell gene activation , seem to be a specific target of cyclosporin a and fk506 action because transcription direct by this protein be block in t cell treat with these drug , with little or no effect on other transcription factor such a ap-1 and nf-kappa b .
here we demonstrate that nf-at be form when a signal from the antigen receptor induce a pre-existing cytoplasmic subunit to translocate to the nucleus and combine with a newly synthesize nuclear subunit of nf-at .
fk506 and cyclosporin a block translocation of the cytoplasmic component without affect synthesis of the nuclear subunit .
identification and characterization of a leukocyte-specific component of the nuclear body .
the nuclear body ( nb ) be a cellular organelle that be involve in the pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukemia and viral infection .
the nb be also a target of antibody in the serum of patient with the autoimmune disease primary biliary cirrhosis .
in this study , serum from a patient with primary biliary cirrhosis be use to identify a cdna encode a novel component of the nb , a 140-kda protein designate sp140 .
the predict amino acid sequence of the amino-terminal portion of sp140 be similar to sp100 , a previously identify nb protein .
the carboxyl portion of sp140 contain a zinc-finger domain and a bromodomain , motif that be present in protein regulate gene transcription .
high level of sp140 mrna be detect in human spleen and peripheral blood leukocyte , but not other human tissue .
the level of sp140 mrna in myeloid precursor cell line hl60 and nb4 markedly increase in response to chemically induce cellular differentiation .
immunohistochemical technique be use to demonstrate that sp140 localize to the nb in differentiate hl60 and nb4 cell .
the location of sp140 in the nb , and expression of this gene in cell involve in host defense , suggest that sp140 may be involve in the pathogenesis of acute promyelocytic leukemia and viral infection .
coupling of a signal response domain in i kappa b alpha to multiple pathway for nf-kappa b activation .
the eukaryotic transcription factor nf-kappa b play a central role in the induce expression of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and in many aspect of the genetic program mediate normal t-cell activation and growth .
the nuclear activity of nf-kappa b be tightly regulate from the cytoplasmic compartment by an inhibitory subunit call i kappa b alpha .
this cytoplasmic inhibitor be rapidly phosphorylated and degrade in response to a diverse set of nf-kappa b -inducing agent , include t-cell mitogen , proinflammatory cytokine , and viral transactivators such a the tax protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 .
to explore these i kappa b alpha -dependent mechanism for nf-kappa b induction , we identify novel mutant of i kappa b alpha that uncouple it inhibitory and signal-transducing function in human t lymphocyte .
specifically , removal of the n-terminal 36 amino acid of i kappa b alpha fail to disrupt it ability to form latent complex with nf-kappa b in the cytoplasm .
however , this deletion mutation prevent the induce phosphorylation , degradative loss , and functional release of i kappa b alpha from nf-kappa b in tax -expressing cell .
alanine substitution introduce at two serine residue positioned within this n-terminal regulatory region of i kappa b alpha also yield constitutive repressor that escape from tax -induced turnover and that potently inhibit immune activation pathway for nf-kappa b induction , include those initiate from antigen and cytokine receptor .
in contrast , introduction of a phosphoserine mimetic at these site rectify this functional defect , a finding consistent with a causal linkage between the phosphorylation status and proteolytic stability of this cytoplasmic inhibitor .
together , these in vivo study define a critical signal response domain in i kappa b alpha that coordinately control the biologic activity of i kappa b alpha and nf-kappa b in response to viral and immune stimulus .
cross-linking of fc gamma receptor activate hiv-1 long terminal repeat -driven transcription in human monocyte .
elevation of the level of circulate immune complex frequently accompany hiv-1 infection and be a prognostic indicator of clinical progression from asymptomatic infection to aid .
here we report that cross-linking of fc gamma ri or fc gamma rii by adherent human igg or by specific anti-fc gamma r mab activate hiv-1 gene expression in the human monocytic cell line bf24 and increase hiv rna expression in monocyte from hiv infected patient a assay by reverse transcription-pcr .
in thp-1 cell , fc gamma r cross-linking induce nf-kappa b , which be know to bind to the regulatory region of the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) of hiv-1 and to activate hiv-1 transcription . anti-tnf-alpha antibody but not anti-il-1 beta antibody strongly inhibit both the induction of hiv-1 - ltr -driven transcription and the induction of nf-kappa b by fc gamma r cross-linking .
these result indicate that fc gamma r can mediate a tnf-alpha -dependent induction of hiv-1 gene transcription and suggest that immune complex may contribute to the pathophysiology of hiv-1 infection by augment viral replication in monocyte .
ra protein activity be essential for t-cell antigen receptor signal transduction .
in a jurkat cell model of t-cell activation an interleukin-2 promoter/reporter gene construct be activate by antigen receptor agonism in combination with the lymphokine interleukin-1 .
antigen receptor signal could be mimic by suboptimal activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) with phorbol ester in combination with calcium mobilization by an ionophore .
in cotransfection experiment , oncogenic rat obviate the need for pkc stimulation but do not replace either the calcium signal or interleukin-1 .
activate ra expression also replace the requirement for pkc stimulation in activation of the t-cell transcription factor nf-at .
a dominant inhibitory ra mutant specifically block antigen receptor agonism , indicate that ra activity be require for antigen receptor signaling .
in addition , an inhibitor of pkc block both activate ra and phorbol ester stimulation , suggest a role for ra upstream of pkc .
[ cortisone-resistant bronchial asthma ]
there be general agreement on the inflammatory pathogenesis of bronchial asthma : an accumulation of activate eosinophil , degranulated mast cell , t lymphocyte and in very severe form , granulocyte have constantly be find in the bronchial mucosa .
in allergic bronchial asthma , inflammation seem to be orchestrate predominantly by a subset of t lymphocyte , with a phenotype similar to the th2 subset able to produce il-4 and il-5 .
although corticosteroid be the most potent therapeutic agent use for this disease , their anti-inflammatory effect differ from patient to patient .
some criterion which can be use to define steroid-resistant bronchial asthma be list here .
this review analyze various molecular alteration responsible for the deficient response to corticosteroid treatment observe in steroid-resistant bronchial asthmatic subject .
new knowledge on the mechanism of steroid resistance may have important implication for the treatment of chronic asthma and other disease .
mouse interleukin-2 receptor alpha gene expression .
interleukin-1 and interleukin-2 control transcription via distinct cis-acting element .
we have show that interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) and il-2 control il-2 receptor alpha ( il-2r alpha ) gene transcription in cd4-cd8-_murine t lymphocyte precursor .
here we map the cis-acting element that mediate interleukin responsiveness of the mouse il-2r alpha gene use a thymic lymphoma-derived hybridoma ( pc60 ) .
the transcriptional response of the il-2r alpha gene to stimulation by il-1 + il-2 be biphasic .
il-1 induce a rapid , protein synthesis-independent appearance of il-2r alpha mrna that be block by inhibitor of nf-kappa b activation .
it also prim cell to become il-2 responsive and thereby prepare the second phase , in which il-2 induce a 100-fold further increase in il-2r alpha transcript .
transient transfection experiment show that several element in the promoter-proximal region of the il-2r alpha gene contribute to il-1 responsiveness , most importantly an nf-kappa b site conserve in the human and mouse gene .
il-2 responsiveness , on the other hand , depend on a 78-nucleotide segment 1.3 kilobases upstream of the major transcription start site .
this segment function a an il-2-inducible enhancer and lie within a region that become dnase i hypersensitive in normal t cell in which il-2r alpha expression have be induce .
il-2 responsiveness require three distinct element within the enhancer .
two of these be potential bind site for stat protein .
function and activation of nf-kappa b in the immune system .
nf-kappa b be a ubiquitous transcription factor .
nevertheless , it property seem to be most extensively exploit in cell of the immune system .
among these property be nf-kappa b 's rapid posttranslational activation in response to many pathogenic signal , it direct participation in cytoplasmic/nuclear signaling , and it potency to activate transcription of a great variety of gene encode immunologically relevant protein .
in vertebrate , five distinct dna binding subunit be currently know which might extensively heterodimerize , thereby form complex with distinct transcriptional activity , dna sequence specificity , and cell type- and cell stage-specific distribution .
the activity of dna binding nf-kappa b dimer be tightly control by accessory protein call i kappa b subunit of which there be also five different specie currently know in vertebrate .
i kappa b protein inhibit dna binding and prevent nuclear uptake of nf-kappa b complex .
an exception be the bcl-3 protein which in addition can function a a transcription activating subunit in th nucleus .
other i kappa b protein be rather involve in terminate nf-kappa b 's activity in the nucleus .
the intracellular event that lead to the inactivation of i kappa b , i.e. the activation of nf-kappa b , be complex .
they involve phosphorylation and proteolytic reaction and seem to be control by the cell ' redox status .
interference with the activation or activity of nf-kappa b may be beneficial in suppress toxic/septic shock , graft-vs-host reaction , acute inflammatory reaction , acute phase response , and radiation damage .
the inhibition of nf-kappa b activation by antioxidant and specific protease inhibitor may provide a pharmacological basis for interfere with these acute process .
nitric oxide -stimulated guanine nucleotide exchange on p21ras .
the protooncogene p21ras , a monomeric g protein family member , play a critical role in convert extracellular signal into intracellular biochemical event .
here , we report that nitric oxide ( no ) activate p21ras in human t cell a evidence by an increase in gtp -bound p21ras .
in vitro study use pure recombinant p21ras demonstrate that the activation be direct and reversible .
circular dichroism analysis reveal that no induce a profound conformational change in p21ras in association with gdp /gtp exchange .
the mechanism of activation be due to s-nitrosylation of a critical cysteine residue which stimulate guanine nucleotide exchange .
furthermore , we demonstrate that p21ras be essential for no -induced downstream signaling , such a nf-kappa b activation , and that endogenous no can activate p21ras in the same cell .
these study identify p21ras a a target of the same cell .
these study identify p21ras a a target of no in t cell and suggest that no activate p21ras by an action which mimic that of guanine nucleotide exchange factor .
reactive oxygen specie and antioxidant in inflammatory disease .
this paper aim to review the role of free radical-induced tissue damage and antioxidant defence mechanism in inflammatory disease that involve pathogenic process similar to the periodontal disease .
there be a clearly define and substantial role for free radical or reactive oxygen specie ( ro ) in periodontitis , but little research have be perform in this area .
this paper review the considerable data available relate ro activity and antioxidant defence to inflammatory disease and attempt to draw parallel with periodontitis , in an effort to stimulate more periodontal research in this important area .
the recent discovery of the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be review and several potential pathway for cytokine -induced periodontal tissue damage , mediate by nf-kappa b1 be discuss .
emphasis be place on cytokine that have be study in periodontitis , principally tnf-alpha , il-1 , il-6 , il-8 and beta-interferon .
the link between cellular production of such important mediator of inflammation and the antioxidant ( ao ) thiols , cysteine and reduce glutathione ( gsh ) , be discuss and it be hypothesise that nf-kappa b antagonist may offer important therapeutic benefit .
transcription factor gata-3 be differentially express in murine th1 and th2 cell and control th2-specific expression of the interleukin-5 gene .
interleukin-5 ( il-5 ) , which be produce by cd4(+) t helper 2 ( th2 ) cell , but not by th1 cell , play a key role in the development of eosinophilia in asthma .
despite increase evidence that the outcome of many disease be determine by the ratio of the two subset of cd4(+) t helper cell , th1 and th2 , the molecular basis for th1- and th2- specific gene expression remain to be elucidate .
we previously establish a critical role for the transcription factor gata-3 in il-5 promoter activation in el-4 cell , which express both th1- and th2- type cytokine .
our study report here demonstrate that gata-3 be critical for expression of the il-5 gene in bona fide th2 cell .
whereas mutation in the gata-3 site abolish antigen- or camp- stimulated il-5 promoter activation in th2 cell , ectopic expression of gata-3 in th1 cell or in a non-lymphoid , non- il-5 -producing cell line activate the il-5 promoter .
during the differentiation of naive cd4(+) t cell isolate from t cell receptor transgenic mouse , gata-3 gene expression be up-regulated in develop th2 cell , but be down-regulated in th1 cell , and antigen- or camp-activated th2 cell ( but not th1 cell ) express the gata-3 protein .
thus , gata-3 may play an important role in the balance between th1 and th2 subset in immune response .
inhibition of gata-3 activity have therapeutic potential in the treatment of asthma and other hypereosinophilic disease .
rp1 , a new member of the adenomatous polyposis coli-binding eb1-like gene family , be differentially express in activate t cell .
cross-linking of the cd3 and cd28 molecule on t lymphocyte represent one of the most effective signal for t lymphocyte activation and triggering of their cytotoxic effector function .
to identify gene that be express in t cell after stimulation , mrna from t lymphocyte that have be activate by the simultaneous stimulation of the cd3 and cd28 trigger molecule be transcribe for a differential mrna display analysis into cdna and be compare with cdna from cd28 - or cd3 -activated or rest lymphocyte .
differential expression be confirm subsequently by northern blot analysis .
one of the cdna fragment express specifically in cd3 - and cd28 -activated t cell be designate rp1 .
the predictive protein-coding region of rp1 have a significant homology to member of the recently find adenomatous polyposis coli ( apc ) protein -binding eb1 gene family , which cod for yet unknown protein ( s ) .
bacterially express rp1 protein reveal specific binding to wild-type but not to mutate apc protein .
the rapid up-regulation of rp1 mrna in properly activate t cell suggest that this gene might belong to the immediate/early gene family , which control the signal transduction cascade downstream of the tcr .
a the expression level of the rp1 gene in activate t cell and a spectrum of tumor-derived cell line correlate with the proliferative status of the cell , member of the eb1-like gene family may not only be involve in the tumorigenesis of colorectal cancer but may also play a role in the proliferative control of normal cell .
characterization of a new isoform of the nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) gene family member nfatc [ publish erratum appear in j biol chem 1996 dec 27 ; 271 ( 52 ) : 33705 ]
the cyclosporin a ( csa ) / fk506 -sensitive nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) play a key role in the inducible expression of cytokine gene in t cell .
although nfat have be recently show to be inducible in several non-t immune cell , the nfat gene family member characterize to date have be isolate only from t cell .
to far characterize nfat function in human b cell and to demonstrate cytokine gene specificity of nfat protein , we report here the isolation and characterization of a cdna clone from the raji b cell line .
the cdna clone encode a new isoform , nfatc.beta , of the nfat gene family member nfatc ( designate here nfatc.alpha ) .
the amino acid sequence of nfatc.beta differ from that of nfatc .
alpha in the first nh2-terminal 29 residue and contain an additional region of 142 residue at the cooh terminus .
northern analysis use a probe encompass a common region of both isoforms show two mrna specie of 2.7 and 4.5 kilobase pair , while an nfatc.beta -specific probe detect only the 4.5-kilobase pair mrna which be preferentially express in the spleen .
transient expression of nfatc.beta be capable of activate an interleukin-2 nfat -driven reporter gene in stimulate jurkat cell in a csa -sensitive manner .
however , nfatc.beta neither bind to the kappa3 element ( an nfat -binding site ) in the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter nor activate the tumor necrosis factor-alpha promoter in cotransfection assay .
these data suggest that different member or isoforms of nfat gene family may regulate inducible expression of different cytokine gene .
isolation of differentially express sequence tag from steroid-responsive cell use mrna differential display .
transcriptional control of steroid-regulated gene network by nuclear receptor protein result in the coordinate expression of a limited number of target gene .
although much be know about the structure and function of steroid receptor , relatively few cell-specific steroid-regulated gene have be isolate and characterize .
in this paper we describe result use mrna differential display reverse transcriptase pcr ( ddpcr ) to identify and isolate short cdna sequence tag from thymocyte and prostate cell under various hormone condition .
use this technique we have isolate several differentially express sequence tag ( dests ) from the mouse thymocyte cell line wehi 7.2 .
two of these dests , gig10 and gig18 , be rapidly induce by dexamethasone within 2 h of treatment .
gig10 be a novel sequence and gig18 be the mouse homologue of a human express sequence tag isolate from activate b lymphocyte .
we also use ddpcr to isolate dests from androgen-modulated rat ventral prostate tissue , one of which we characterize and find to correspond to the 3' end of prostatic spermine binding protein mrna , a known androgen-regulated gene .
modification of the original ddpcr protocol , which we find can potentially decrease the frequency of isolate false-positive dests , be describe and the merit of ddpcr , relative to other differential cdna cloning strategy , be discuss .
change in pkc isoforms in human alveolar macrophage compare with blood monocyte .
alveolar macrophage play an important role in host defense and in other type of inflammatory process in the lung .
these cell exhibit many alteration in function compare with their precursor cell , blood monocyte .
to evaluate a potential mechanism for these difference in function , we evaluate expression of protein kinase c ( pkc ) isoforms .
we find an increase in ca2+ -dependent pkc isoforms in monocyte compare with alveolar macrophage .
we also find differential expression of the ca2+ -independent isoforms in alveolar macrophage compare with monocyte .
one consequence of the activation of pkc can be increase expression of mitogen-activated protein ( map ) kinase pathway .
therefore , we also evaluate activation of the map kinase extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) 2 by the phorbol ester phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) .
pma activated erk2 kinase in both alveolar macrophage and monocyte ; however , monocyte consistently show a significantly great activation of erk2 kinase by pma compare with alveolar macrophage .
another known consequence of the activation of pkc and subsequent activation of erk kinase be activation of the transcription factor activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) .
we evaluate the activation of ap-1 by pma in both monocyte and macrophage .
we find very little detectable activation of ap-1 , a assess in a gel shift assay , in alveolar macrophage , whereas monocyte show a substantial activation of ap-1 by pma .
these study show that the differential expression of pkc isoforms in alveolar macrophage and blood monocyte be associate with important functional alteration in the cell .
induction of endothelial cell surface adhesion molecule by tumor necrosis factor be block by protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor : role of the nuclear transcription factor nf-kappa b .
recent study from our laboratory have indicate that protein tyrosine phosphatase ( ptpase ) inhibitor can down-modulate the tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -mediated activation of the nuclear transcription factor nf-kappa b in ml-1a , a monocytic cell line ( singh and aggarwal , j. biol. chem. 1995 : 270 : 10631 ) .
since tnf be one of the major inducer of various adhesion molecule in human endothelial cell and their expression be know to require the activation of nf-kappa b , we examine the effect of ptpase inhibitor on the tnf -mediated induction of intracellular adhesion molecule ( icam ) -1 , vascular cell adhesion molecule ( vcam ) -1 and endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule ( elam ) -1 .
like ml-1a , human dermal microvessel endothelial cell ( mvec ) treat with tnf rapidly activate ( within 30 min ) nf-kappa b ; this effect be completely abolish by co-treatment with phenylarsine oxide ( pao ) , a specific inhibitor of ptpase .
the induction of icam-1 , vcam-1 , and elam-1 by tnf in mvec occur within 6 h and be also completely down-regulated by pao in a dose-dependent manner .
pao be find to be effective even when add 3 h after tnf , suggest a rapid mode of action of this inhibitor .
besides pao , other inhibitor of ptpase , include pervanadate and diamide , also block tnf -dependent nf-kappa b activation and induction of all the three adhesion protein .
consistent with these result , the attachment of monocyte to mvec be also block by the ptpase inhibitor .
thus , overall , our result demonstrate that a ptpase be involve either directly or indirectly in the pathway lead to the induction of endothelial cell adhesion molecule by tnf .
because of their role in cell adhesion , ptpase may provide a novel target of drug development for treatment of inflammation , atherogenesis , and tumor metastasis .
bsap : a key regulator of b-cell development and differentiation .
b-cell-specific activator protein ( bsap ) be a recently identify member of the pax-gene family of transcription factor ; in the lymphoid system , bsap be produce only in b cell .
here , markus neurath , eckhard stuber and warren strober describe the molecular structure of bsap and focus on the ability of this protein to regulate the expression of b-cell-specific gene .
they propose that bsap be a key protein of b cell and that it not only influence b-cell development but also influence the balance between b-cell proliferation and immunoglobulin secretion at late stage of b-cell differentiation .
cloning and expression of the glucocorticoid receptor from the squirrel monkey ( saimiri boliviensis boliviensis ) , a glucocorticoid-resistant primate .
new world primate such a the squirrel monkey have elevate cortisol level and glucocorticoid resistance .
we have show that the apparent binding affinity of the glucocorticoid receptor in squirrel monkey lymphocyte be 5-fold low than that in human lymphocyte ( apparent kd , 20.9 +/- 1.8 and 4.3 +/- 0.2 nmol/l , respectively ; n = 3 ) , consistent with previous study in mononuclear leukocyte isolate from the two specie .
a a first step in understand the mechanism of decrease binding affinity in new world primate , we use reverse transcription-pcr to clone the glucocorticoid receptor from squirrel monkey liver and have compare the sequence to receptor sequence obtain from owl monkey liver , cotton-top tamarin b95-8 cell , and human lymphocyte .
the squirrel monkey glucocorticoid receptor be approximately 97 % identical in nucleotide and amino acid sequence to the human receptor .
the ligand-binding domain ( amino acid 528-777 ) of the squirrel monkey glucocorticoid receptor contain four amino acid difference ( ser551 to thr , ser616 to ala , ala618 to ser , and ile761 to leu ) , all of which be present in owl monkey and cotton-top tamarin receptor .
the dna-binding domain ( amino acid 421-486 ) be completely conserve among human , squirrel monkey , owl monkey , and cotton-top tamarin receptor .
twenty-two difference from the human sequence be find in the n-terminal region ( amino acid 1-421 ) of the squirrel monkey receptor .
none of the substitution in the ligand-binding domain match mutation know to influence binding affinity in other specie .
to determine whether the substitution per se be responsible for decrease affinity , squirrel monkey and human glucocorticoid receptor be express in the tnt coupled reticulocyte lysate system .
expression of human and squirrel monkey glucocorticoid receptor and a squirrel monkey receptor in which phe774 be mutate to leu ( f774l ) be similar .
when express in the tnt system , squirrel monkey and human glucocorticoid receptor have similar , high affinity binding for dexamethasone ( apparent kd , 5.9 +/- 1.2 and 4.3 +/- 0.5 nmol/l , respectively ; n = 3 ) , whereas the squirrel monkey f774l receptor have low affinity binding ( apparent kd , 20.4 +/- 2.0 nmol/l ; n = 3 ) .
thus , substitution within the ligand-binding domain of the squirrel monkey glucocorticoid receptor can not account for the decrease binding affinity of these receptor in squirrel monkey cell .
rather , the binding affinity be probably influence by the expression of cytosolic factor that affect glucocorticoid receptor function .
[ the change in glucocorticoid receptor in peripheral leukocyte in asthmatic subject ]
the number of glucocorticoid receptor ( gcr ) in peripheral leukocyte be determine by radioligand-binding assay in extrinsic and intrinsic asthmatic .
their corresponding plasma cortisol level be assess .
the result show that the average number of gcr in asthmatic be significantly low than that in healthy subject ( p < 0.01 ) , and there be a linear correlation between the number of gcr and the course of asthma .
besides , there be also a linear correlation between the number of gcr and the age of the initial attack of asthma .
no difference in plasma cortisol level be find between asthmatic and healthy subject .
these finding suggest that there be no primary and general impairment of glucocorticoid metabolism in the asthmatic , but the number of gcr in the asthmatic be low than that in healthy control .
the decrease of the number of gcr in asthmatic , we think , be related to heredity and repeat attack of asthma .
synergism between two distinct element of the htlv-i enhancer during activation by the trans-activator of htlv-i .
we have conduct functional study of the enhancer element of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) use the human t-cell line jurkat and molt 4 , which be negative for htlv-i , and mt-2 and tl-mor , which carry the proviral genome of htlv-i .
two distinct element have be implicate in function of the htlv-i enhancer .
one be the 21-base-pair ( bp ) core element that be responsible for trans-activation by the htlv-i trans-activator p40tax and that have the ability to bind to cyclic-amp responsive element binding factor ( creb ) -like factor ( s ) .
the other be a region interpose between the 21-bp element .
in this study we demonstrate that a subfragment ( c26 ) in the region between the 21-bp element be involve in trans-activation by p40tax , possibly through binding to an nf-kappa b -like nuclear factor or factor .
formation of the protein-dna complex with the c26 subfragment be positively affect by p40tax .
the c26 element confer partial responsiveness to p40tax when link to one copy of the 21-bp element that , by itself , show little activation in response to p40tax .
however , the c26 element alone , even when repeat , could not be activate by p40tax , unlike other nf-kappa b -binding element .
in contrast , the c26 element itself be profoundly activate upon stimulation with 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate .
these finding therefore suggest that the htlv-i enhancer contain multiple functional element , include bind site for at least creb- and nf-kappa b- like factor , which synergistically cooperate in activation of the htlv-i enhancer in response to p40tax .
our result also demonstrate that tpa-dependent activation of the htlv-i enhancer may be mediate through the c26 element .
jak3 be associate with cd40 and be critical for cd40 induction of gene expression in b cell .
cd40 be a receptor that be critical for the survival , growth , differentiation , and isotype switching of b lymphocyte .
although cd40 lack intrinsic tyrosine kinase activity , it ligation induce protein tyrosine phosphorylation , which be necessary for several cd40 -mediated event .
we show that engagement of cd40 induce tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of jak3 as well a of stat3 .
jak3 be constitutively associate with cd40 , and this interaction require a proline-rich sequence in the membrane-proximal region of cd40 .
deletion of this sequence abolish the capacity of cd40 to induce expression of cd23 , icam-1 , and lymphotoxin-alpha gene in b cell .
these result indicate that signaling through jak3 be activate by cd40 and play an important role in cd40 -mediated function .
il-10 induce the tyrosine phosphorylation of tyk2 and jak1 and the differential assembly of stat1 alpha and stat3 complex in human t cell and monocyte .
il-10 affect monocyte and t cell by drive the progression of immune responsiveness such that th2 lymphocyte-mediated effect predominate .
in this report , we show that in monocyte and t cell il-10 stimulate tyrosine phosphorylation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription , stat1 alpha and stat3 , in a differential manner such that the relative formation of homo- and hetero dimer vary between the two cell type .
moreover , monocyte express a novel il-10 -stimulated stat protein with an m(r) of 70 kda that be recognize by the anti- stat3 ab but be not observe in t cell .
il-10 treatment of both t cell and monocyte result in the ligand-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of tyk2 and jak1 , but not jak2 or jak3 .
selective modulation of immune responsiveness by il-10 in cell such a monocyte and t cell may result in part from the differential activation of stat protein pair .
the transcription factor sp1 be require for induction of the murine gm-csf promoter in t cell .
the cis-acting region , gm-kappa b/gc-box ( position -95 and -73 ) , within the murine gm-csf gene promoter be require for maximal induction by stimulation with phorbol-12-myristate acetate ( pma ) and calcium ionophore ( a23187 ) in t cell .
gm-kappa b define a bind site for nf-kappa b , and gc-box define a bind site for three ( a1 , a2 , b ) constitutive protein .
we report here that three copy of the gc-box can functionally compensate for the gm-kappa b/ gc-box region , suggest that the gc-motif can function independently of the gm-kappa b motif .
the major gc-box binding activity a1 be purify and identify a the transcription factor sp1 .
we show that depletion of sp1 ( a1 ) from nuclear extract specifically decrease in vitro transcription activity on gm-csf template .
since the human gm-csf promoter have a base difference within the gc-box , we speculate that this may explain why the human promoter be weak and that an upstream enhancer be require for the induction of the human gm-csf gene .
inducible nitric oxide : an autoregulatory feedback inhibitor of vascular inflammation .
inducible nitric oxide ( ino ) be produce at site of vascular inflammation by resident and nonresident vascular wall cell , but it role in the inflammatory process be not know .
in this study , we show that a novel function of ino be to terminate inflammatory process .
we find that ino produce by murine macrophage-like cell , raw264.7 , can inhibit cytokine -induced endothelial cell activation in a separated and mixed endothelial-raw264.7 coculture system .
both ino production and endothelial vcam-1 expression be induce simultaneously with bacterial lp and murine-specific ifn-gamma .
inhibition of ino synthase ( inos ) activity with n omega-monomethyl-l-arginine in endothelial-raw264.7 cocultures , stimulate with murine-specific ifn-gamma and lp , decrease ino production by 86 % , augment vcam-1 and inos expression in endothelial and raw264.7 cell , respectively , and increase monocyte adhesion to the endothelial cell surface .
transient transfection study use various vcam-1 promoter construct demonstrate that inhibitory effect of ino on vcam-1 gene transcription be mediate , in part , by inhibitory effect of ino on kappa b cis-acting element .
immunofluorescence study use an ab to the rela ( p65 ) subunit of nuclear factor-kappa b reveal that ino inhibit the activation of nuclear factor-kappa b .
these study indicate that ino attenuate inos expression in macrophage and inhibit monocyte adhesion to endothelial cell , and suggest that endogenously derive ino may be an important autoregulatory inhibitor of vascular inflammation
a lymphoid cell-specific nuclear factor contain c-rel-like protein preferentially interact with interleukin-6 kappa b-related motif whose activity be repress in lymphoid cell .
the proto-oncoprotein c-rel be a member of the nuclear factor kappa b transcription factor family , which include the p50 and p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappa b .
we show here that c-rel bind to kappa b site a homodimers as well a heterodimers with p50 .
these homodimers and heterodimers show distinct dna-binding specificity and affinity for various kappa b motif .
in particular , the c-rel homodimer have a high affinity for interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) and beta interferon kappa b site .
in spite of it association with p50 in vitro , however , we find a lymphoid cell-specific nuclear factor in vivo that contain c-rel but not p50 epitope ; this factor , term il-6 kappa b binding factor ii , appear to contain the c-rel homodimer and preferentially recognize several il-6 kappa b-related kappa b motif .
although it have be previously show that the il-6 kappa b motif function a a potent il-1/tumor necrosis factor-responsive element in nonlymphoid cell , it activity be find to be repress in lymphoid cell such a a jurkat t-cell line .
we also present evidence that il-6 kappa b binding factor ii function a a repressor specific for il-6 kappa b-related kappa b motif in lymphoid cell .
nf-kappa b control expression of inhibitor i kappa b alpha : evidence for an inducible autoregulatory pathway .
the eukaryotic transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) participate in many part of the genetic program mediate t lymphocyte activation and growth .
nuclear expression of nf-kappa b occur after it induce dissociation from it cytoplasmic inhibitor i kappa b alpha .
phorbol ester and tumor necrosis factor-alpha induction of nuclear nf-kappa b be associate with both the degradation of perform i kappa b alpha and the activation of i kappa b alpha gene expression .
transfection study indicate that the i kappa b alpha gene be specifically induce by the 65-kilodalton transactivating subunit of nf-kappa b .
association of the newly synthesize i kappa b alpha with p65 restore intracellular inhibition of nf-kappa b dna binding activity and prolong the survival of this labile inhibitor .
together , these result show that nf-kappa b control the expression of i kappa b alpha by mean of an inducible autoregulatory pathway .
purification of tcf-1 alpha , a t-cell-specific transcription factor that activate the t-cell receptor c alpha gene enhancer in a context-dependent manner .
the differentiation of t cell into functionally diverse subpopulation be control in part , by transcriptional activation and silencing ; however , little be know in detail about the protein that influence this developmental process .
we have purify a new t-cell-specific factor , tcf-1 alpha , that be implicate in the activation of gene encode a major component of the human t-cell receptor ( tcr ) .
tcf-1 alpha , originally identify and purify through it bind site on the hiv-1 promoter , be find to bind to the tcr alpha enhancer and to promoter for several gene express at significantly early stage of t-cell development than the tcr alpha gene ( e.g. , p56lck and cd3 delta ) .
sequence related to the tcf-1 alpha binding motif ( 5'-ggcaccctttga-3' ) be also find in the human tcr delta ( and possibly tcr beta ) enhancer .
southwestern and gel renaturation experiment with the use of purify protein fraction reveal that tcf-1 alpha activity be derive from a family of 57- to 53-kd protein that be abundantly express in mature and immature t-cell line ( jurkat , ccrf-cem ) and not in mature b cell ( jy , namalwa ) or nonlymphoid ( hela ) cell line .
a small 95-bp fragment of the tcr alpha control region that contain the tcf-1 alpha binding site juxtapose between a camp-response element ( the cre or t alpha 1 motif ) and the bind site for a distinct lymphoid-specific protein ( tcf-2 alpha ) behave a a potent t-cell-specific enhancer in vivo .
tandem copy of this enhancer function synergistically in mature ( jurkat ) t-cell line as well a rest and activate immature ( ccrf-cem ) t-cell line .
mutation of the tcf-1 alpha binding site diminish enhancer activity and disrupt the synergism observe in vivo between tandem enhancer repeat .
the tcf-1 alpha binding site be also require for tcr alpha enhancer activity in transcriptionally active extract from jurkat but not hela cell , confirm that tcf-1 alpha be a t-cell-specific transcription factor .
curiously , the tcf-1 alpha binding element be inactive in vivo when remove from it neighboring element on the tcr alpha enhancer and positioned in one or more copy upstream of a heterologous promoter .
thus , the transcriptional activity of tcf-1 alpha appear to depend on the tcf-2 alpha and t alpha 1 ( creb ) transcription factor and the context of it bind site within the tcr alpha enhancer .
jnk be involve in signal integration during costimulation of t lymphocyte .
t lymphocyte activation and interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) production require at least two signal , generate by phorbol ester ( tpa ) and ca2+ ionophore or costimulation of the t cell receptor ( tcr ) and the cd28 auxiliary receptor .
we investigate how these stimulus affect mitogen activated protein ( map ) kinase .
full activation of the map kinase that phosphorylate the jun activation domain , jnk1 and jnk2 , require costimulation of t cell with either tpa and ca2+ ionophore or antibody to tcr and cd28 .
alone , each stimulus result in little or no activation .
similar to it effect on il-2 induction , cyclosporin a ( csa ) inhibit the synergistic activation of jnk , and a competitive inhibitor of jun phosphorylation by jnk inhibit il-2 promoter activation .
by contrast , the map kinase erk1 and erk2 be fully activate by tpa or tcr stimulation and be not affect by ca2+ , cd28 , or csa .
hence , integration of signal that lead to t cell activation occur at the level of jnk activation .
in vitro suppression of program cell death of b cell by tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases-1 .
cellular pathway for induction of program cell death ( pcd ) have be identify , but little be know about specific extracellular matrix process that may affect apoptosis along those pathway .
in this study , a series of burkitt 's lymphoma ( bl ) cell line be assay for their expression of tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinases ( timp ) -1 .
result indicate that timp-1 -positive bl line show resistance to cold-shock-induced apoptosis .
furthermore , recombinant timp-1 , but not timp-2 or a synthetic metalloproteinase inhibitor ( bb-94 ) , confer resistance to apoptosis induce by both cd95-dependent and -independent ( cold shock , serum deprivation , and gamma-radiation ) pathway in timp-1 -negative bl line .
timp-1 suppression of pcd be not due to metalloproteinase inhibition , a reduction and alkylation of the timp-1 do not abolish this activity .
retroviral induction of timp-1 not only result in cell survival but also in continued dna synthesis for up to 5 d in the absence of serum , while control undergo apoptosis .
this resistance to apoptosis be reverse by anti- timp-1 antibody , demonstrate that secrete timp-1 be active in block apoptosis .
furthermore , timp-1 upregulation induce expression of bcl-xl but not bcl-2 as well a decrease nf-kappab activity a compare with control .
these result demonstrate that timp-1 suppress apoptosis in b cell and suggest a novel activity for timp-1 in tissue homeostasis .
elevated glucocorticoid receptor concentration before and after glucocorticoid therapy in peripheral mononuclear leukocyte of patient with atopic dermatitis .
the number and affinity of glucocorticoid binding site in peripheral mononuclear leukocyte of patient with atopic dermatitis ( ad ) and healthy control be determine under baseline condition and after a define oral glucocorticoid treatment .
patient with ad ( n = 15 ) exhibit significantly more glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) per cell than the control group ( n = 22 ) , while the gr affinity do not differ .
methylprednisolone treatment result in a significant reduction of the gr site per cell in the steroid-treated control group ( n = 10 ) in contrast to the patient .
the dissociation constant be not affect by methylprednisolone treatment in either group .
in view of the therapeutic efficiency of glucocorticoid in ad and finding of abnormal camp and camp-phosphodiesterase activity , the elevated gr concentration in ad lend support to the hypothesis of a compensatory gr upregulation due to an insufficient action of endogenous cortisol or to altered camp -induced gr expression .
peripheral t lymphocyte from woman with breast cancer exhibit abnormal protein expression of several signal molecule .
we examine signal molecule of peripheral blood t lymphocyte obtain from woman with breast cancer .
in 6 of 14 patient , t lymphocyte display an impaired ability to translocate nfeb p65 ( rel-a ) follow activation by anti-cd3 and il-2 .
this observation be make despite normal cytoplasmic level of the rel-a protein .
we also detect abnormally low level of the signal molecule t-cell receptor ( tcr ) -zeta , zap-70 and p56lck in 4 of 14 breast cancer patient , i.e. , defect in t-cell signal molecule .
t lymphocyte from 6 of the 14 patient also exhibit an increase expression of the dual specificity phosphatase , map kinase phosphatase-1 ( mkp-1 ) .
mkp-1 inactivate map kinase and therefore may interfere with the activation of c-jun and c-fos .
abnormality of i or more signal molecule be find in 9 of 14 patient ; however , only 3 patient have t cell that exhibit all 5 defect .
our data have implication for the detection of potentially dysfunctional t cell in patient with cancer .
for example , the analysis of only 1 signal molecule may allow patient with significant defect in t-cell signaling to go unnoticed .
finally , despite impaired rel-a translocation , t cell be capable of transcribe il-2 .
impairment in the translocation of rel-b and c-rel far suggest that the nfkb family member rel-a , rel-b and c-rel be not require for the transcription of il-2 in the peripheral t lymphocyte of patient with breast cancer .
acetylation and modulation of erythroid kruppel-like factor ( eklf ) activity by interaction with histone acetyltransferases .
erythroid kruppel-like factor ( eklf ) be a red cell-specific transcriptional activator that be crucial for consolidate the switch to high level of adult beta-globin expression during erythroid ontogeny .
eklf be require for integrity of the chromatin structure at the beta-like globin locus , and it interact with a positive-acting factor in vivo .
we find that eklf be an acetylate transcription factor , and that it interact in vivo with cbp , p300 , and p/caf .
however , it interaction with these histone acetyltransferases be not equivalent , a cbp and p300 , but not p/caf , utilize eklf a a substrate for in vitro acetylation within it trans- activation region .
the functional effect of these interaction be that cbp and p300 , but not p/caf , enhance eklf 's transcriptional activation of the beta-globin promoter in erythroid cell .
these result establish eklf a a tissue-specific transcription factor that undergo post-translational acetylation and suggest a mechanism by which eklf be able to alter chromatin structure and induce beta-globin expression within the beta-like globin cluster .
the ability of bhrf1 to inhibit apoptosis be dependent on stimulus and cell type .
the development of resistance to host defense mechanism such a tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) - and fas- mediated apoptosis of transform or virus-infected cell may be a critical component in the development of disease .
to find gene that protect cell from apoptosis , we use an expression cloning strategy and identify bhrf1 , an epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) early-lytic-cycle protein with distant homology to bcl-2 , a an anti- apoptosis protein .
expression of bhrf1 in mcf-fas cell confer nearly complete resistance against both anti-fas antibody and tnf-mediated apoptosis .
in addition , bhrf1 protect these cell from monocyte-mediated killing but fail to protect them from killing mediate by lymphokine-activated killer cell .
the ability of bhrf1 to protect mcf-fas cell from apoptosis induce by various stimulus be identical to that of bcl-2 and bcl-xl .
moreover , the mechanism of action of bhrf1 resemble that of bcl-2 and bcl-xl a it inhibit tnf- and anti-fas- induced activation of two enzyme participate in the apoptosis pathway , cytosolic phospholipase a2 and caspase-3/cpp32 , but do not interfere with the activation of nf-kappab -like transcription factor .
a putative function of bhrf1 in ebv -infected epithelial cell may be to protect virus-infected cell from tnf- and/or anti-fas- induced cell death in order to maximize virus production .
surprisingly , expression of neither bhrf1 nor bcl-2 in a b-cell line , bjab , protect the cell from anti-fas-mediated apoptosis even though they increase the survival of serum-starved cell .
thus , the protective role of bhrf1 against apoptosis resemble that of bcl-2 in be cell type specific and dependent on the apoptotic stimulus .
hiv-1 nef protein inhibit the recruitment of ap-1 dna-binding activity in human t-cells .
the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat , hiv-1-ltr , contain bind site for several cellular transcription factor which contribute to hiv-1 gene expression .
our previous study on the function of the hiv-1-encoded nef protein suggest that nef may be an inhibitor hiv-1 transcription .
to determine whether nef affect the binding of cellular factor implicate in hiv-1 regulation , 32p-labeled oligonucleotides correspond to the bind site be incubate with nuclear extract prepare from nef-expressing t-cell line that be not stimulate or be stimulate with t-cell mitogen .
we find that nef inhibit the recruitment of ap-1 dna-binding activity in mitogen-stimulated human t-cells .
additionally , nef expressing cell be transiently transfected with a plasmid in which hiv-1 ap-1 dna recognition sequence be clone downstream of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) gene .
mitogen-mediated transcriptional activation of the cat gene in this construct be inhibit in nef -expressing cell but not in control cell .
these study suggest that , by inhibit ap-1 activation , nef may play a role in regulate hiv-1 gene expression in infected t-cells .
a small , nonpeptidyl mimic of granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor [ see commetns ]
a nonpeptidyl small molecule sb 247464 , capable of activate granulocyte-colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) signal transduction pathway , be identify in a high-throughput assay in culture cell .
like g-csf , sb 247464 induce tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple signaling protein and stimulate primary murine bone marrow cell to form granulocytic colony in vitro .
it also elevated peripheral blood neutrophil count in mouse .
the extracellular domain of the murine g-csf receptor be require for the activity of sb 247464 , suggest that the compound act by oligomerizing receptor chain .
the result indicate that a small molecule can activate a receptor that normally bind a relatively large protein ligand .
a nongenomic mechanism for progesterone-mediated immunosuppression : inhibition of k+ channel , ca2+ signaling , and gene expression in t lymphocyte .
the mechanism by which progesterone cause localized suppression of the immune response during pregnancy have remain elusive .
use human t lymphocyte and t cell line , we show that progesterone , at concentration find in the placenta , rapidly and reversibly block voltage-gated and calcium-activated k+ channel ( kv and kca , respectively ) , result in depolarization of the membrane potential .
a a result , ca2+ signaling and nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) -driven gene expression be inhibit .
progesterone act distally to the initial step of t cell receptor ( tcr ) -mediated signal transduction , since it block sustained ca2+ signal after thapsigargin stimulation , as well a oscillatory ca2+ signal , but not the ca2+ transient after tcr stimulation .
k+ channel blockade by progesterone be specific ; other steroid hormone have little or no effect , although the progesterone antagonist ru 486 also block kv and kca channel .
progesterone effectively block a broad spectrum of k+ channel , reduce both kv1.3 and charybdotoxin-resistant component of kv current and kca current in t cell , as well a block several clone kv channel express in cell line .
progesterone have little or no effect on a clone voltage-gated na+ channel , an inward rectifier k+ channel , or on lymphocyte ca2+ and cl- channel .
we propose that direct inhibition of k+ channel in t cell by progesterone contribute to progesterone -induced immunosuppression .
regulation of cd95 ( fa ) ligand expression by tcr -mediated signaling event .
stimulation of mature peripheral t cell by tcr engagement result in activation of signal that drive induction of cytokine gene expression and clonal expansion .
however , under some condition , engagement of the tcr lead instead to apoptosis .
recent study demonstrate that tcr -stimulated apoptosis require expression of cd95 ligand on activate t cell follow by an interaction between cd95 ligand and the cd95 receptor also express on this population .
the experiment report in this study be design to address the signaling event trigger by tcr engagement that be important for regulate cd95 ligand gene expression .
to approach this , we generate a luciferase reporter construct contain element of the cd95 ligand promoter .
use a previously describe mutant of the jurkat t cell line , we show that proximal signaling event dependent on the presence of the cd45 tyrosine phosphatase be require for tcr -stimulated cd95 ligand expression .
transient transfection study demonstrate far that tcr -stimulated activation of the ra signaling pathway be require for optimal activation of cd95 ligand .
next , in an effort to determine critical transcription factor that regulate cd95 ligand expression , we demonstrate a cyclosporin a-sensitive nuclear factor-at response element in the promoter region of this gene that be critical for optimal cd95 ligand reporter activity in stimulate t cell .
together , these study begin a dissection of the biochemical event that lead to expression of cd95 ligand , a required step for tcr -induced apoptosis .
a novel immunosuppressive factor in bovine colostrum block activation of the interleukin 2 gene enhancer at the nfat site .
a factor in bovine colostrum ( colostrum inhibitory factor , cif ) inhibit interleukin 2 ( il2 ) production in activated t helper cell by block the accumulation of il2 mrna .
to determine whether cif block at the level of il2 transcription , we introduce reporter plasmid into the human t leukemia cell line jurkat by transient transfection .
these contain the luciferase gene under the control of either the human il2 upstream enhancer region ( segment -326 to +45 ) or three repeat of the nfat element contain within it ( segment -255 to -285 ) .
expression of luciferase in these cell be induce by phorbol myristate acetate plus a calcium ionophore .
cif inhibit induction of either construct a do cyclosporine , which be know to block activation of the nfat element .
cif fail to inhibit several other enhancer element .
the nfat-controlled luciferase gene system distinguish cif from other t cell inhibitory activity present in colostrum , in particular , tgf beta 1 and tgf beta 2 and the glucocorticoid .
stably transfected jurkat cell behave similarly to the transiently transfected one with respect to inhibition by cif and cyclosporine .
the nfat -luc assay be a useful technique for the rapid , sensitive measurement of cif or other immunosuppressant with a similar mode of action .
[ molecular mechanism of cytokine gene expression in th1 and th2 ]
upon activation by antigen , helper t cell differentiate into one of several subset , characterize by their distinct cytokine -production pattern .
among these subset , th1 cell be know to activate cellular immunity result in inflammatory response , whereas th2 cell induce humoral and allergic response and suppress inflammation .
th1 and th2 effector function and their development be attributable to their distinct cytokine expression pattern .
recent report have demonstrate that differential expression of cell surface molecule , such a adhesion molecule and chemokine receptor , be involve in their recruitment into target tissue .
it be , therefore , suggest that clarification of the mechanism of differential gene expression in th1/th2 should lead to rational strategy for manipulate pathological immune response .
activation of helper t cell mediate by the t cell receptor induce a series of biochemical event .
among them , both the activation of pkc/ras- and cam/cn- mediated pathway play a central role in the signal transduction of cytokine gene expression .
close examination use non-transformed murine th1 and th2 clone suggest that a balance between the activity of the two signaling pathway contribute to cytokine gene expression .
we propose that one of the target of pge2 , whose effect distinguish th1 from th2 , reside in the downstream pkc/ras -mediated pathway .
expression of mrna for the gata-binding protein in human eosinophil and basophil : potential role in gene transcription .
the expression of the hematopoietic transcription factor gata-1 , gata-2 , and gata-3 be study in eosinophil and basophil .
eosinophil express mrna for gata-1 , gata-2 , and gata-3 .
basophil express gata-2 and gata-3 .
treatment of hl-60 eosinophilic sublines with either interleukin-5 or butyric acid increase the expression of gata-1 mrna concomitant with the expression of eosinophil-specific gene , whereas level of gata-2 mrna remain relatively constant .
the presence of mrna for these protein in eosinophil and basophil suggest that gene transcription in these lineage may be regulate by gata-binding protein .
human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 tax induction of nf-kappab involve activation of the ikappab kinase alpha ( ikkalpha ) and ikkbeta cellular kinase .
tax correspond to a 40-kda transform protein from the pathogenic retrovirus human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) that activate nuclear expression of the nf-kappab /rel family of transcription factor by an unknown mechanism .
tax expression promote n-terminal phosphorylation and degradation of ikappab alpha , a principal cytoplasmic inhibitor of nf-kappab .
our study now demonstrate that htlv-1 tax activate the recently identify cellular kinase ikappab kinase alpha ( ikkalpha ) and ikkbeta , which normally phosphorylate ikappab alpha on both of it n-terminal regulatory serine in response to tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) stimulation .
in contrast , a mutant of tax term m22 , which do not induce nf-kappab , fail to activate either ikkalpha or ikkbeta .
furthermore , endogenous ikk enzymatic activity be significantly elevated in htlv-1-infected and tax-expressing t-cell line .
transfection of kinase-deficient mutant of ikkalpha and ikkbeta into either human jurkat t or 293 cell also inhibit nf-kappab -dependent reporter gene expression induce by tax .
similarly , a kinase-deficient mutant of nik ( nf-kappab -inducing kinase ) , which represent an upstream kinase in the tnf-alpha and il-1 signaling pathway lead to ikkalpha and ikkbeta activation , block tax induction of nf-kappab .
however , plasma membrane-proximal element in these proinflammatory cytokine pathway be apparently not involve since dominant negative mutant of the traf2 and traf6 adaptor , which effectively block signaling through the cytoplasmic tail of the tnf-alpha and il-1 receptor , respectively , do not inhibit tax induction of nf-kappab .
together , these study demonstrate that htlv-1 tax exploit a distal part of the proinflammatory cytokine signaling cascade lead to induction of nf-kappab .
the pathological alteration of this cytokine pathway lead to nf-kappab activation by tax may play a central role in htlv-1 -mediated transformation of human t cell , clinically manifest a the adult t-cell leukemia
the regulation of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha promoter region in macrophage , t cell , and b cell line .
the 1311-base pair human tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) alpha promoter region be fuse to the luciferase ( luc ) reporter gene and study in a transient transfection system in three tnf producing cell line , the u937 macrophage cell line , the mla 144 t cell line , and the 729-6 b cell line .
this full length promoter construct can be induce by phorbol 13-myristate acetate ( pma ) in each of these cell type .
analysis of a series of 5'-truncations show several peak of basal and pma induced activity suggest the presence of several positive and negative regulatory element .
a pma responsive element be localized to a region between -95 and -36 bp relative to the transcription start site .
within this region , single ap-2- and ap-1- like consensus sequence be note .
these ap-2 and ap-1 site be each modify with a double point mutation .
a modest ( 20-50 % ) reduction in tnf promoter activity be observe with the ap-2 site mutation .
however , mutation of the ap-1 site markedly diminish both the basal and pma-activated promoter activity .
also co-transfections of the wild-type promoter construct with an ap-1/c-jun expression vector result in augmented basal and pma -induced promoter activity .
involvement of rel , fo , and jun protein in binding activity to the il-2 promoter cd28 response element/ ap-1 sequence in human t cell .
cd28 be an important costimulatory molecule in the activation of human t cell .
costimulation of t cell through both the ag receptor and cd28 lead to high level il-2 production , which be vital to the development of an immune response in vivo .
previous report have suggest the cd28 stimulation contribute to the activation of the il-2 promoter by up-regulating the activity of several transcription factor , include ap-1 and nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) / rel family member as well a an uncharacterized transcription factor call cd28 response complex .
while several line of investigation have suggest that nf-kappab/rel family member make up the cd28 response complex transcription factor , other work have not support this conclusion .
recent study suggest that the cd28 response element ( cd28re ) do not function independently but work instead in conjunction with the adjacent promoter proximal ap-1 -binding site and this hypothesis be confirm here .
also in the current study , binding activity to the cd28re /ap-1 sequence of the il-2 promoter be evaluate .
although four specific complex can be detect bind to this sequence , only one of these complex be specific for both the cd28re and the adjacent ap-1 site .
of the nf-kappab/rel family member test , this cd28re /ap-1-specific complex contain predominantly c-rel , despite the fact that both p50 and rela can efficiently bind to the cd28re .
c-fos and c-jun be also find in this cd28re /ap-1-specific complex .
these data indicate that functional complex encompass both the cd28re and the ap-1-binding site influence il-2 promoter activity in cd28 -costimulated t cell .
c/ebp protein activate transcription from the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat in macrophages/ monocyte .
three bind site for c/ebp protein be find in the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) long terminal repeat ( ltr ) ( v.m. tesmer , a.rajadhyaksha , j.babin , and m.bina , proc.natl.acad.sci. usa 90 : 7298-7302 , 1993 ) .
we have determine the functional role of c/ebp protein and c/ebp site in regulate transcription from the hiv-_1 ltr in monocyte /macrophages .
inhibition of endogenous c/ebp protein , use either an excess of c/ebp binding site or a trans-_dominant negative inhibitor , demonstrate that c/ebp protein be require for basal and activate level of hiv-1 ltr transcription in the promonocytic cell line u937 .
northern ( rna ) blot and binding assay show that nf-il6 be the only known c/ebp family member which be increase when u937 cell be activate .
mutational analysis of the hiv-1 ltr show that one c/ebp site be require for normal ltr transcription both before and after cellular activation and that the two 3' c/ebp site be functionally equivalent .
however , transcription from cripple hiv-1 ltrs lack c/ebp site can still be induce follow activation of u937 cell .
several model be suggest for how elevated nf-il6 may participate in an autostimulatory loop involve hiv infection , macrophage activation , cytokine expression , and hiv replication .
expression level of the thyrotropin receptor gene in autoimmune thyroid disease : coregulation with parameter of thyroid function and inverse relation to major histocompatibility complex class i and ii .
use a human tsh receptor ( tsh-r ) cdna probe , we investigate tsh-r transcript level in 13 human thyroid fragment by northern blot analysis ; 7 graf ' disease , 2 hashimoto 's disease , 3 endemic goiter , and 1 healthy thyroid gland be study .
tsh-r expression level be variable , but display a close correlation to the expression of thyroid peroxidase ( r = 0.703 ; p < 0.05 ) , thyroglobulin ( r = 0.817 ; p < 0.01 ) , and the nuclear oncogene c-fos ( r = 0.935 ; p < 0.001 ) , but not c-myc .
overall , tsh-r transcript level be low or absent in those thyroid in which expression of the major histocompatibility complex class i or ii ( mhc i or ii ) be high , thus establish an inverse relation ( mhc i , r = -0.791 ; p < 0.01 ; mhc ii , r = -0.784 ; p < 0.01 ) .
in situ hybridization show that apart from lymphocyte , thyroid cell themselves be the source of mhc ii transcript .
gamma-interferon expression be only detectable in 1 hashimoto 's goiter .
our finding suggest that next to lymphocyte infiltration , active regulatory event in the thyrocyte be responsible for the inverse relation between functional parameter ( tsh-r , thyroid peroxidase , thyroglobulin , and c-fos ) and immunological marker ( mhc i and ii ) .
preassociation of stat1 with stat2 and stat3 in separate signalling complex prior to cytokine stimulation .
a variety of cytokine and growth factor act through an induction of gene expression mediate by a family of latent transcription factor call stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) protein .
ligand-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the stats promote their homodimer and heterodimer formation and subsequent nuclear translocation .
we demonstrate here that stat protein heterocomplexes exist prior to cytokine treatment .
when unstimulated hela cell be rupture in hypotonic buffer without salt or detergent , immunoadsorption of either stat1 or stat2 from the result cytosol yield coimmunoadsorption of the other stat protein .
similarly , stat1 -stat3 heterocomplexes be coimmunoadsorbed from hypotonic cytosol .
stat1 and stat2 or stat1 and stat3 translate in reticulocyte lysate spontaneously form heterocomplexes when the translation lysates be mix at 0 degree c .
our data suggest that interferon-alpha /beta-induced tyrosine phosphorylation increase the stability of a preexisting , latent , stat1 - stat2 signaling complex .
newly translate stat1 bind in equilibrium fashion to stat2 and stat3 , but we show that stat2 and stat3 exist in separate heterocomplexes with stat1 , consistent with a model in which stat1 contain a common bind site for other stat protein .
binding of erythroid and non-erythroid nuclear protein to the silencer of the human epsilon-globin-encoding gene .
to clarify the molecular mechanism involve in the developmental control of hemoglobin-encoding gene we have be study the expression of these gene in human cell in continuous culture .
we have previously report the presence of a transcriptional control element with the property of a silencer extend from -392 to -177 bp relative to the cap site of the human epsilon-globin-encoding gene [ cao et al. , proc.natl.acad.sci.usa 86 ( 1989 ) 5306-5309 ] .
we also show that this silencer have strong inhibitory activity in hela cell , a compare to k562 human erythroleukemia cell .
use deletion mutant and cis-cloned synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotides in transient expression assay , nucleotide sequence responsible for this effect have now be far delimit to 44 bp located from -294 to -251 bp .
gel electrophoresis mobility shift assay and dnasei footprinting assay demonstrate that these negative regulatory sequence be recognize differently by protein present in nuclear extract obtain from hela and k562 cell .
two bind protein be detect in k562 nuclear extract , while only one be find in extract from hela cell .
possible mechanism by which these protein may regulate transcription of the epsilon-globin-encoding gene in erythroid and non-erythroid cell be discuss .
erythropoietin -dependent induction of hemoglobin synthesis in a cytokine -dependent cell line m-tat .
m-tat be a cytokine -dependent cell line with the potential to differentiate along the erythroid and megakaryocytic lineage .
we culture m-tat cell long term ( > 1 year ) in the continuous presence of erythropoietin ( epo ) , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , or stem cell factor ( scf ) .
these long term culture be refer to a m-tat/epo , m-tat/gm-csf , and m-tat/scf cell , respectively .
hemoglobin concentration and gamma-globin and erythroid delta-aminolevulinate synthase mrna level be significantly high in m-tat/epo cell than in m-tat/gm-csf cell .
when the supplement cytokine be switch from gm-csf to epo , hemoglobin synthesis in m-tat/gm-csf cell increase rapidly ( within 5 h ) , and the level of gata-1 mrna increase .
in contrast , the addition of gm-csf to the m-tat/epo cell culture decrease the amount of hemoglobin , even in the presence of epo , indicate that the epo signal for erythroid differentiation be suppress by gm-csf .
thus , erythroid development of m-tat cell be promote by epo and suppress by gm-csf .
these result support the hypothesis that epo actively influence the programming of gene expression require for erythroid progenitor cell differentiation .
induction of cytokine expression in leukocyte by binding of thrombin-stimulated platelet .
background : activate platelet tether and activate myeloid leukocyte .
to investigate the potential relevance of this mechanism in acute myocardial infarction ( ami ) , we examine cytokine induction by leukocyte-platelet adhesion and the occurrence of leukocyte-platelet conjugate in patient with ami .
method and result : we obtain peripheral venous blood sample in 20 patient with ami before and daily for 5 day after direct percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty ( ptca ) and in 20 patient undergo elective ptca .
throughout the study period , cd41 immunofluorescence of leukocyte ( flow cytometry ) reveal increase leukocyte-platelet adhesion in patient with ami compare with control patient ( mean +/- se of fluorescence [ channel ] before ptca : 77 +/- 16 versus 35 +/- 9 ; p = .003 ) .
in vitro , thrombin-stimulated fixed platelet bind to neutrophil and monocyte .
within 2 hour , this result in increase mrna for interleukin ( il ) , 1 beta , il-8 , and monocyte chemoattractant protein ( mcp ) -1 in unfractionated leukocyte .
after 4 hour , il-1 beta and il-8 concentration of the cell-free supernatant have increase by 268 +/- 36 % and 210 +/- 7 % , respectively , and cellular mcp-1 content have increase by 170 +/- 8 % .
addition of activate platelet to adherent monocyte have a similar effect and be associate with nuclear factor-kappa b activation .
inhibition of binding by anti-p selectin antibody reduce the effect of activate platelet on cytokine production .
conclusion : in patient with ami , leukocyte-platelet adhesion be increase .
binding of activate platelet induce il-1 beta , il-8 , and mcp-1 in leukocyte .
our finding suggest that leukocyte-platelet adhesion contribute to the regulation of inflammatory response in ami .
stat1 pathway be involve in activation of caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus long terminal repeat in monocyte .
the caprine arthritis-encephalitis virus ( caev ) long terminal repeat ( ltr ) be activate by gamma interferon ( ifn-gamma ) in promonocytic cell .
we have previously show that a 70-bp element be necessary and sufficient for the response of the caev ltr to this cytokine .
at the 5' end , this 70-bp ifn-gamma response element contain sequence similarity to the gamma activated site ( gas ) .
here we demonstrate that the putative gas element in the caev ltr bind specifically to a cellular factor induce by ifn-gamma in promonocytic cell .
substitution mutation in this consensus sequence eliminate binding of the inducible factor .
the gas element from the 70-bp motif be sufficient to confer responsiveness to ifn-gamma use a heterologous minimal promoter .
consistent with the binding data , the same mutation in the gas element eliminate responsiveness to ifn-gamma in the context of both a functional caev ltr and a heterologous promoter .
the cellular factor that bind to the gas element be present from 5 min to 14 h after stimulation with ifn-gamma .
binding of the nuclear factor to the gas element in the caev ltr be inhibit by antibody direct against stat1 ( p91/84 ) .
thus , the gas sequence in the caev ltr be essential for the response to ifn-gamma and a stat1 -like factor bind to this site .
the stat-1 signaling pathway provide at least one mechanism for activation of the caev ltr by ifn-gamma in monocyte .
these data be the first demonstration of a role for a stat family member in the regulation of a viral promoter .
multiple signal be require for function of the human granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene promoter in t cell .
the human granulocyte-macrophage csf ( gm-csf ) gene be express in t cell in response to tcr activation that can be mimic by treatment of the cell with pma and ca2+ ionophore .
the gene contain a proximal functional promoter region ( -620 to +34 ) , as well a a powerful enhancer located 3 kb upstream , both of which be involve in the response of the gene to tcr activation .
the proximal promoter contain a region term cleo ( -54 to -31 ) that consist of a purine -rich element abut an activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) -like site , as well a an upstream nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) site ( -85 to -76 ) and a ck-1 element ( -101 to -92 ) .
we show in this work that mutation in either the purine -rich region of the cleo element or the nf-kappa b site result in reduce pma / ca2+ activation of a 620-bp human gm-csf promoter- luciferase reporter construct in jurkat t cell by 65 % and 50 % , respectively .
the major inducible protein complex that bind to the human cleo ( hcleo ) element be an ap-1 -like complex that be inducible by pma alone , but show increase binding in response to pma together with ca2+ ionophore .
although the binding of this complex be not cyclosporin -sensitive , promoter induction be inhibit by cyclosporin treatment .
a second weak inducible complex resemble nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) be also observe bind to the hcleo region .
by use recombinant protein , we confirm that ap-1 , nf-atp , and a high order nf-atp / ap-1 complex could all form with the hcleo element , and we have also define the sequence requirement for binding of each of these complex .
we find that expression of a constitutively active form of calcineurin could substitute for ca2+ ionophore and synergize with pma to activate the gm-csf promoter , and conversely that mutant-activated ra could substitute for pma and cooperate with ca2+ ionophore .
co-expression of ra and calcineurin , however , do not activate the gm-csf promoter , but require the additional expression of nf-kappa b p65 .
these result imply that at least three signal be require to activate the gm-csf proximal promoter , and that the signal impinge on distinct transcription factor that bind to the hcleo and nf-kappa b region of the promoter .
role of ikk1 and ikk2 in lipopolysaccharide signaling in human monocytic cell .
mononuclear phagocyte play a major role in immune and inflammatory response .
bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) induce monocyte to express a variety of gene by activate the nf-kappab/rel transcription factor family .
recently , we have report that the tumor necrosis factor and interleukin 1 signaling pathway activate two kinase , ikk1 and ikk2 .
phosphorylation of the ikappab cytoplasmic inhibitor , ikappabalpha , ikappabbeta , and ikappabepsilon , by these kinase trigger proteolytic degradation and the release of nf-kappab/rel protein into the nucleus .
at present , the role of the ikks in lp signaling have not be investigate .
here , we report that lp induce ikk activity in human monocyte and thp-1 monocytic cell .
the kinetics of activation of kinase activity in monocytic cell be relatively slow with maximal activity observe at 60 min , which coincide with the degradation of ikappabs and the nuclear translocation of nf-kappab .
in transfection experiment , overexpression of wild type ikk1 , a dominant negative mutant ikk1 ( k44m ) , or wild type ikk2 do not affect lp -induced kappab -dependent transcription in monocytic cell .
in contrast , a dominant negative mutant of ikk2 inhibit lp induction of kappab -dependent transcription in a dose-dependent manner .
these result indicate that lp induction of kappab-dependent gene expression in human monocytic cell require activation of ikk2 .
gene encode general initiation factor for rna polymerase ii transcription be disperse in the human genome .
general transcription factor be require for accurate initiation of transcription by rna polymerase ii .
human cdna encode subunit of these factor have be clone and sequence .
use fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) , we show here that the gene encode the tata-box binding protein ( tbp ) , tfiib , tfiie alpha , tfiie beta , rap30 , rap74 and the 62 kda subunit , of tfiih be located at the human chromosomal band 6q26-27 , 1p21-22 , 3q21-24 , 8p12 , 13q14 , 19p13.3 and 11p14-15.1 , respectively .
this dispersed localization of a group of functionally related gene provide insight into the molecular mechanism of human genome evolution and their possible involvement in human disease .
ciita activate the expression of mhc class ii gene in mouse t cell .
it have long be a puzzle that mhc class ii molecule be express in human t cell after activation but not in mouse t cell ; this expression be believe to play a role in the cell mediated immune response .
recently the mhc class ii transactivator ( ciita ) have be report to be a major regulatory factor for both the constitutive and ifn inducible expression of mhc class ii gene .
here we show that human t cell express mhc class ii have ciita transcript while mhc class ii-negative human t cell and mouse t cell do not .
the expression of mhc class ii gene in mouse t cell can be reconstitute upon transfection with the human ciita cdna .
these data indicate that the expression of ciita explain the expression or lack of expression of mhc class ii in human and mouse t cell respectively .
tyrosine phosphorylation be a mandatory proximal step in radiation-induced activation of the protein kinase c signaling pathway in human b- lymphocyte precursor [ publish erratum appear in proc natl acad sci u s a 1993 apr 15 ; 90 ( 8 ) : 3775 ]
ionize radiation trigger a signal in human b-lymphocyte precursor that be intimately link to an active protein-tyrosine kinase regulatory pathway .
we show that in b-lymphocyte precursor , irradiation with gamma-rays lead to ( i ) stimulation of phosphatidylinositol turnover ; ( ii ) downstream activation by covalent modification of multiple serine-specific protein kinase , include protein kinase c ; and ( iii ) activation of nuclear factor kappa b .
all of the radiation-induced signal be effectively prevent by the protein-tyrosine kinase inhibitor genistein and herbimycin a .
thus , tyrosine phosphorylation be an important and perhaps mandatory proximal step in the activation of the protein kinase c signaling cascade in human b-lymphocyte precursor .
our report expands current knowledge of the radiation-induced signaling cascade by clarify the chronological sequence of biochemical event that follow irradiation .
a cell type-specific enhancer in the human b7.1 gene regulate by nf-kappab .
the costimulatory molecule b7.1 provide a second signal critical for t cell activation .
the distribution of this integral membrane protein be restricted to certain tissue where it level of expression be modulate by multiple exogenous stimulus .
to identify the molecular basis for specificity and inducibility , the chromatin configuration of the human b7.1 gene be examine in intact nucleus from various cell type .
the identification of a tissue-specific deoxyribonuclease i hypersensitive site approximately 3kb upstream of the transcription start site lead to the characterization of a cell type-specific enhancer region .
this 183-bp region be both cell type specific and responsive to two distinct stimulus , lipopolysaccharide and dibutyryl camp , know to regulate b7.1 expression .
deletional and site-directed mutagenesis reveal the presence of multiple functionally critical ci element within this region , one of which be a nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappab consensus sequence .
in b7.1 -positive b cell , this element bind several member of the nf-kappab family , transcription factor already implicate in signal transduction pathway relevant to b7.1 expression .
this be the first description , to our knowledge , of regulatory element that control expression of a gene encode a b7 costimulatory molecule .
a mutation of the glucocorticoid receptor in primary cortisol resistance .
the precise molecular abnormality that cause primary cortisol resistance have not be completely describe .
in a subject with primary cortisol resistance we have observe glucocorticoid receptor ( hgr ) with a decrease affinity for dexamethasone .
we hypothesize that a mutation of the hgr glucocorticoid-binding domain be the cause of cortisol resistance .
total rna isolate from the index subject 's mononuclear leukocyte be use to produce first strand hgr cdna , and the entire hgr cdna be amplify in segment and sequence .
at nucleotide 2 , 317 we identify a homozygous a for g point mutation that predict an isoleucine ( att ) for valine ( gtt ) substitution at amino acid 729 .
when the wild-type hgr and hgr -ile 729 be express in cos-1 cell and assay for [3h]-dexamethasone binding , the dissociation constant be 0.799 +/- 0.068 and 1.54 +/- 0.06 nm ( mean +/- sem ) ( p < 0.01 ) , respectively .
when the wild-type hgr and hgr -ile 729 be express in cv-1 cell that be cotransfected with the mouse mammary tumor virus long terminal repeat fuse to the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) gene , the hgr -ile 729 confer a fourfold decrease in apparent potency on dexamethasone stimulation of cat activity .
the isoleucine for valine substitution at amino acid 729 impair the function of the hgr and be the likely cause of primary cortisol resistance in this subject .
menopause be associate with a significant increase in blood monocyte number and a relative decrease in the expression of estrogen receptor in human peripheral monocyte .
problem : the clinical significance of the differential expression of estrogen receptor ( er ) in human monocyte be evaluate .
method : two color flow cytometry analysis be use on peripheral blood sample of young and postmenopausal female and postmenopausal female treat with estrogen replacement therapy .
in addition , the monocyte and lymphocyte count and the blood estrogen level of each patient be determine .
result : during menopause there be a significant decrease in the percentage of er positive monocyte , and an increase in blood monocyte number , which decline follow estrogen replacement therapy to value of the young .
conclusion : these finding suggest that estrogen modulate the monocyte number and it effect may be mediate through the er in the monocyte .
transcription factor bind to the core promoter of the human monoamine oxidase b gene in the cerebral cortex and in blood cell .
many study show that monoamine oxidase b in blood cell be a biological marker for personality characteristic such a sensation seeking .
the mechanism underlie this association be so far not explore .
in the present study we have perform electrophoretic mobility-shift assay to investigate the pattern of protein binding to a 150 bp fragment of the proximal 5'-flanking region of the human monoamine oxidase b gene .
we compare the pattern use nuclear extract from human brain and lymphocyte .
interestingly , a correlation be observe between monoamine oxidase b enzyme activity in blood cell ( platelet ) and the binding pattern of two uncharacterized transcription factor .
these data be well in line with the long-standing notion that interindividual difference in platelet monoamine oxidase may represent difference in expression of the enzyme rather than genotypic variation .
the epstein-barr virus rta protein activate lytic cycle gene and can disrupt latency in b lymphocyte .
the transition of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) from latency into the lytic cycle be associate with the expression of two immediate-early viral gene , bzlf1 and brlf1 .
overexpression of zebra , the product of bzlf1 , be sufficient to disrupt latency in b lymphocyte and epithelial cell by stimulate expression of lytic cycle gene , include brlf1 .
the brlf1 product rta function a a transcriptional activator in both b lymphocyte and epithelial cell .
however , rta have recently be report to disrupt latency in an epithelial specific manner ( s. zalani , e. holley-guthrie , and s. kenney , proc. natl. acad. sci. usa 93 : 9194-9199 , 1996 ) .
here we demonstrate that expression of rta be also sufficient for disruption of latency in a permissive b-cell line .
in hh514-16 cell , transfection of rta lead to synthesis of zebra , viral dna replication , and late gene expression .
however , rta by itself be less potent than zebra in the ability to activate most early and late lytic cycle gene .
in light of previous work implicate zebra in the activation of rta , we suggest a cooperative model for ebv entry into the lytic cycle .
expression of either bzlf1 or brlf1 trigger expression of the other immediate-early factor , and together these activator act individually or in synergy on downstream target to activate the viral lytic cycle .
expression of gamma-ifn responsive gene in scavenger receptor over-expressing monocyte be associate with xanthomatosis .
we have recently describe an inherit over-expression of the macrophage scavenger receptor ( sr ) in blood monocyte from member of a kindred , only two of whom display extensive xanthomatosis .
use mrna differential display we demonstrate abnormally high expression of the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat1alpha ) in monocyte from the proband ii-2 .
expression of gamma-interferon inducible protein 10 ( ip-10 ) , a stat1alpha -responsive gene and mediator of inflammatory response , be also abnormally express in the monocyte from ii-2 .
over-expression of both gene be restricted to monocyte from ii-2 and be not observe in monocyte from the clinically unaffected family member , unlike that of sr .
gel retardation assay with thp-1 cell extract identify gamma-ifn inducible dna binding activity to three potential stati dna binding element in the human ip-10 promoter region from nucleotide -_245 to -_188 .
take together these result suggest that gamma-interferon mediate cell activation be responsible for stat1alpha -induced transcription of the ip-10 gene in thp-1 macrophage as well a in monocyte from ii-2 .
analysis of monocyte from familial hypercholesterolemic ( fh ) subject , who frequently develop xanthomatosis , reveal a significant number of subject with elevated stat1alpha and ip-10 expression .
our data suggest that the inflammatory effect of gamma-ifn signaling could play a role in foam cell formation and xanthomatosis .
the nf-kappa b inhibitor , tepoxalin , suppress surface expression of the cell adhesion molecule cd62e , cd11b/cd18 and cd106 .
tepoxalin , a dual enzyme inhibitor of cyclooxygenase and 5-lipoxygenase have be show to inhibit t-cell activation .
it immunosuppressive property be distinct from cyclosporin because only tepoxalin , but not cyclosporin , suppress nf-kappa b activation .
here we report that tepoxalin selectively inhibit intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 , cd54 ) /mac-1 ( cd11b/cd18 ) dependent adhesion of polymorphonuclear cell to il-1 activated human umbilical vein endothelial cell .
the mechanism of inhibition be related to the surface expression of several cell adhesion molecule .
flow cytometry analysis on culture cell that be treat with tepoxalin or antisense oligonucleotides to the p65/p50 subunit of nf-kappa b , and then stimulate with pma , reveal a reduce expression of cd11b/cd18 on monocytic hl60 cell , and endothelial adhesion molecule-1 ( cd62e ) and vascular adhesion molecule-1 ( cd106 ) on human umbilical vein endothelial cell .
expression of other adhesion molecule such a lymphocyte function associated-antigen-1 ( cd11a /cd18 ) and cd54 be unaffected .
tepoxalin also inhibit the secretion of a nf-kappa b regulated chemokine , il-8 , a known inducer of cd11b/cd18 expression .
thus the suppression of cd11b/cd18 expression by tepoxalin may involve il-8 .
our result suggest that by inhibit nf-kappa b activation , surface expression of several adhesion molecule can be modulate and that tepoxalin may be useful in treat select adhesion mediated event such a leukocyte migration or atherosclerotic plaque formation .
single strand conformation polymorphism analysis of androgen receptor gene mutation in patient with androgen insensitivity syndrome : application for diagnosis , genetic counseling , and therapy .
recent study indicate that mutation in the androgen receptor gene be associate with androgen insensitivity syndrome , a heterogeneous group of related disorder involve defective sexual differentiation in karyotypic male .
in this report , we address the possibility of rapid mutational analysis of the androgen receptor gene for initial diagnosis , genetic counseling , and molecular subclassification of affect patient and their family .
dna from peripheral blood leukocyte of six patient from five family with various degree of androgen insensitivity be study .
exon 2 to 8 of the androgen receptor gene be analyze use a combination of single strand conformation polymorphism analysis and direct dna sequencing .
female family member be also study to identify heterozygote carrier .
point mutation in the ar gene be identify in all six patient , and all mutation cause amino acid substitution .
one patient with incomplete androgen insensitivity be a mosaic for the mutation .
four of the five mother , as well a a young sister of one patient , be carrier of the mutation present in the affect child .
our data show that new mutation may occur in the androgen receptor gene lead to sporadic androgen insensitivity syndrome .
molecular genetic characterization of the variant allele can serve a a primary tool for diagnosis and subsequent therapy , and can provide a basis for distinguish heterozygous carrier in familial androgen resistance .
the identification of carrier be of substantial clinical importance for genetic counseling .
cortivazol mediate induction of glucocorticoid receptor messenger ribonucleic acid in wild-type and dexamethasone -resistant human leukemic ( cem ) cell .
cortivazol be a phenylpyrazolo glucocorticoid of high potency and unusual structure .
in both wild-type and highly dexamethasone ( dex ) -resistant clone of the human leukemic cell line cem , exposure to cortivazol lead to cell death .
it have be show recently that in wild-type cem cell but not in a dex-resistant , glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) -defective clone icr-27 tk-3 , dex induce gr mrna .
to test the hypothesis that cortivazol act in dex -resistant cell by make use of the residual gr find there , wild-type and dex -resistant clone be treat with various concentration of cortivazol and induction of gr mrna be study .
cortivazol significantly induce gr mrna in the normal cem-c7 as well a in two class of dex -resistant clone , although the dex -resistant clone need at least 10 time more cortivazol than the normal cell for significant gr mrna induction .
increase level of gr mrna be notice as early a 3 h after treatment .
a general correlation between induction of gr mrna and lysis of the normal and dex -resistant cell be find .
positive induction of gr mrna might be one of the early crucial step in the lysis of normal and dex-resistant cem cell , or might serve a a marker for the process .
however , the lysis pathway in the dex -resistant cell be defective in that dex -resistant clone need significantly more cortivazol than the normal cell for lysis of the cell .
minimally modify low density lipoprotein -induced inflammatory response in endothelial cell be mediate by cyclic adenosine monophosphate .
we have previously show that minimally oxidize ldl ( mm-ldl ) activate endothelial cell to increase their interaction with monocyte but not neutrophil , induce monocyte but not neutrophil binding and synthesis of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and monocyte colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) .
in the present study we have examine the signaling pathway by which this monocyte-specific response be induce .
both induction of monocyte binding and mrna level for m-csf by mm-ldl be not inhibit in protein kinase c-depleted endothelial cell .
a number of our study indicate that camp be the second messenger for the effect of mm-ldl cite above .
incubation of endothelial cell with mm-ldl cause a 173 % increase in intracellular camp level .
agent which increase camp level , include cholera toxin , pertussis toxin , dibutyryl camp , and isoproterenol mimic the action of mm-ldl .
agent which elevate camp be also show to activate nf kappa b , suggest a role for this transcription factor in activation of monocyte-endothelial interaction .
although endothelial leukocyte adhesion molecule ( elam ) mrna synthesis can be regulate by nf kappa b , elam be not express and elam mrna be only slightly elevated in response to mm-ldl .
we present evidence that induction of neutrophil binding by lp be actually suppress by agent that elevate camp level .
[ differential diagnostic value of receptor of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( calcitriol ) determination in lymphocyte of child with rickets and rickets -like disease ]
the author provide the result of study 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( calcitriol ) in lymphocyte of child with rickets and rickets -like disease .
it be propose that the character of their expression under the influence of vitamin d may be use with differential diagnostic purpose in view .
suppression of mhc class ii expression by human class ii trans-activator construct lack the n-terminal domain .
the class ii trans-activator ( ciita ) be a bi- or multi-functional domain protein which play a critical role in the expression of mhc class ii gene .
we report that removal of the n-terminal 151 amino acid , encompass all of the acidic domain but leave intact the proline / serine / threonine -rich domain , result in a mutant protein with potent suppressive property for mhc class ii expression .
hela cell stably or transiently transfected with mutant ciita construct show up to 99 % suppression of mhc class ii antigen induction by ifn-gamma and marked suppression of hla-dra mrna expression .
transient transfection of a b lymphoma line result in up to 89 % reduction of constitutive mhc class ii expression within 5 day and suppression of hla-dra mrna synthesis .
activation of human thymocytes after infection by ebv .
the discovery of ebv in certain t cell malignancy and the expression of the ebv receptor , cr2/cd21 , on a population of immature thymocytes , t lymphoblastoid cell line , and childhood acute t lymphoblastic leukemia cell suggest that ebv -receptor interaction on t cell may be of importance .
we have show that , within the thymus , a population of large , immature cell express cd21 .
ebv alter the activation response of immature thymocytes in vitro .
trigger through cd2 be mitogenic for mature , but not immature , t cell .
however , during infection by ebv , ligation of cd2 cause thymocytes to proliferate in the absence of exogenous cytokine .
this function be a result of the interaction of ebv with it receptor , cd21 , but be cause by infection rather than surface signaling , because neither specific mab nor the p3hr-1 strain of virus mimic the effect of b95-8 .
immature thymocytes be infect by ebv , a determine by the internalization of the viral genome and it transcriptional activity .
consistent with the activity of b95-8 , ebna-2 transcript be identify within infected thymocyte population .
in addition , component of the viral replicative pathway be express during infection of thymocytes .
these component include transcription of bzlf-1 , an early gene that characterize ebv -infected b cell after disruption of latency .
a second transcript be identify a encode the recently characterize raz , which also be associate with replicative infection .
the consequence of ebv infection of t cell at an early stage of differentiation may lead to failure of normal t cell repertoire development , autoimmunity , or malignancy .
regulation of pak activation and the t cell cytoskeleton by the linker protein slp-76 .
tyrosine phosphorylation of linker protein enable the t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) -associated protein tyrosine kinase to phosphorylate and regulate effector molecule that generate second messenger .
we demonstrate here that the slp-76 linker protein interact with both nck , an adaptor protein , and vav , a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for rho-family gtpases .
the assembly of this tri-molecular complex permit the activate rho-family gtpases to regulate target effector that interact through nck .
in turn , assembly of this complex mediate the enzymatic activation of the p21-activated protein kinase 1 and facilitate actin polymerization .
hence , phosphorylation of linker protein not only bridge the tcr-associated ptk , zap-70 , with downstream effector protein , but also provide a scaffold to integrate distinct signal complex to regulate t cell function .
the state of maturation of monocyte into macrophage determine the effect of il-4 and il-13 on hiv replication .
the molecular mechanism of the effect of il-4 and il-13 on hiv infection in human monocyte a they mature into monocyte-derived macrophage over 7 day be investigate use hiv-1 ( bal ) , and low passage clinical strain .
il-4 and il-13 up-regulated the expression of both genomic and splice hiv mrna in monocyte culture on teflon , a determine by northern analysis and p24 ag assay .
use a nuclear run-on assay , il-4 stimulation be show to enhance transcription by two- to threefold .
il-4 stimulate nuclear factor-kappab nuclear translocation and binding before enhancement of hiv rna expression .
conversely , il-4 and il-13 markedly and significantly inhibit hiv replication at the transcriptional level in monocyte-derived macrophage , and this occur whether these cytokine be add before or after hiv infection .
the reversal from stimulation to inhibition occur after 3 to 5 day of adherence to plastic .
il-4 have no significant effect on hiv reverse transcription .
the effect of both cytokine on the monocyte maturation/differentiation ( cd11b , cd13 , and cd26 ) and other macrophage marker ( cd14 and cd68 ) be examine .
il-4 enhance cd11b , but inhibit cd26 expression and delay cd13 loss .
il-13 have similar effect on cd11b and cd13 , but no effect on cd26 .
hence , these cytokine do not simply enhance monocyte differentiation , but have complex and slightly divergent effect that impact on hiv replication probably through cell signaling pathway and nuclear factor-kappab translocation .
reactivation of kaposi 's sarcoma -associated herpesvirus infection from latency by expression of the orf 50 transactivator , a homolog of the ebv r protein .
kaposi 's sarcoma ( k ) -associated herpesvirus ( kshv ) , or human herpesvirus 8 , be a lymphotropic virus strongly link to several aids-related neoplasm .
the primary reservoir of infection consist of latently infected b lymphocyte and possibly other mononuclear cell .
viral reactivation from latency and spread from this lymphoid reservoir be presumably require for development of nonlymphoid tumor like k .
here we show that deregulate expression of a single viral gene , orf 50 , which encode a transactivator able to selectively upregulate delayed-early viral gene , suffice to disrupt latency and induce the lytic gene cascade in latently infected b cell .
the identification of this gene open the way to study of the physiologic mechanism control reactvation of kshv from latency .
copyright 1998 academic press .
upregulation of interleukin 6 and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor by transcription factor ccaat enhancer binding protein alpha ( c/ebp alpha ) be critical for granulopoiesis .
cytokine stimulate granulopoiesis through signaling via receptor whose expression be control by lineage-specific transcription factor .
previously , we demonstrate that granulocyte colony-stimulating factor ( g-csf ) receptor mrna be undetectable and granulocyte maturation block in ccaat enhancer binding protein alpha ( c/ebpalpha ) -deficient mouse .
this phenotype be distinct from that of g-csf receptor-/- mouse , suggest that other gene be likely to be adversely affect by loss of c/ebpalpha .
here we demonstrate loss of interleukin 6 ( il-6 ) receptor and il-6-responsive colony-forming unit ( cfu-il6 ) in c/ebpalpha -/- mouse .
the observe failure of granulopoiesis could be rescue by the addition of soluble il-6 receptor and il-6 or by retroviral transduction of g-csf receptor , demonstrate that loss of both of these receptor contribute to the absolute block in granulocyte maturation observe in c/ebpalpha -deficient hematopoietic cell .
the result of these and other study suggest that additional c/ebpalpha target gene , possibly other cytokine receptor , be also important for the block in granulocyte differentiation observe in vivo in c/ebpalpha -deficient mouse .
coexpression of the interleukin-13 and interleukin-4 gene correlate with their physical linkage in the cytokine gene cluster on human chromosome 5q23-31 .
interleukin-13 ( il-13 ) and il-4 be cytokine produce by t cell that be encode by the q23-31 region of human chromosome 5 .
to investigate the regulation of il-13 gene expression by t cell , we isolate and sequence the human il-13 gene , analyze it 5'-flanking region for potential transcriptional activation element , and examine it expression in nontransformed t-lineage cell population .
the human il-13 gene be located 12.5-kb upstream of the il-4 gene and 2-kb downstream of a cpg island .
the il-13 gene 5' flank region include a segment with sequence homology to p element of the il-4 promoter involve in transcriptional activation in t cell .
mutation of the il-13 p element site significantly reduce il-13 promoter activity in response to t-cell activation .
oligonucleotides contain the il-13 or il-4 p element site specifically bind the transcriptional activator protein , nuclear factor-activated t cell , preformed ( nf-atp ) , when incubate with nuclear protein extract from activate t cell .
similar to il-4 , il-13 mrna expression be high in t-cell population enrich for cell that have previously be prim in vivo or in vitro , indicate that priming increase the expression of the il-13 and il-4 gene in a coordinate manner .
because the prim t cell contain high level of nuclear nf-atp , capable of bind to p element of the il-4 and il-13 promoter , than do freshly-isolated t cell , the nf-at-binding p element be attractive candidate to mediate the coordinate expression of these two cytokine gene .
transcription specific difference visualize by fluorescence in situ hybridization pattern on interphase nucleus of different cell type .
application of a " formamide free " and thus " material preserving " in situ hybridization technique use the cdna of the myf3 gene reveal the following result : human rhabdomyosarcoma cell , characterize by a high expression of myf3 show intensive hybridization signal in their interphase .
rnase treatment prior to hybridization considerably reduce the size of this signal .
in comparison , isolate nucleus of human lymphocyte in which no need for the expression of this gene exist , show barely hybridization signal .
correspondingly , rnase treatment have no effect on hybridization pattern at all .
in conclusion an increase transcription efficiency of a cell type specific gene be accompany by a high hybridization accessibility in the corresponding cell nucleus .
inorganic lead activate nf-kappa b in primary human cd4+ t lymphocyte .
inorganic lead ( pb ) be a ubiquitous environmental contaminant that produce a variety of effect on humoral and cell mediated immune response .
the underlie molecular mechanism for pb 's complex effect on the immune system remain obscure .
many of pb 's effect on the immune system could be explain through activation of the transcription factor , nf-kappa b .
nf-kappa b be critical for t lymphocyte function and be a strong inducer of hiv-ltr activation .
we demonstrate that pb at physiologically relevant concentration activate nf-kappa b in primary human cd4+ t lymphocyte .
pb -induced activation of nf-kappa b be block by antibody for p65 and p50 subunit but not crel , indicate that the p65 : p50 heterodimer ( nf-kappa b ) be involve .
functional activation of gene expression by pb be confirm use primary cd4+ t cell transfected with an nf-kappa b dependent reporter gene construct .
pb do not activate nf-kappa b in 4 different t cell line , suggest that lymphoid cell line may not be reliable surrogate for the study of transcriptional activation in human t cell .
these data suggest that nf-kappa b may be an important molecular mediator of pb -induced immunotoxicity .
involvement of different transduction pathway in nf-kappa b activation by several inducer .
double-stimulation be use to demonstrate that , in a t lymphocytic cell line ( cem ) , phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) rapidly induce nf-kappa b through a signaling pathway which do not involve reactive oxygen specie ( ro ) and be different from the activation trigger by either h2o2 or tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
since these latter compound be know to activate nf-kappa b translocation in a redox-sensitive way , we have demonstrate that nf-kappa b activation by pma be resistant to antioxidant n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) and sensitive to kinase inhibitor staurosporine and h7 while activation by h2o2 or tnf-alpha be not .
retinoid x receptor and c-cerba/thyroid hormone receptor regulate erythroid cell growth and differentiation .
nuclear receptor be important regulator of erythroid cell development .
here we investigate the impact of retinoid x receptor ( rxr ) , retinoic acid receptor ( rar ) , and of the c-erba/thyroid hormone ( t3 ) receptor ( c-erba/tr ) on growth and differentiation of erythroid cell use an in vitro culture system of stem cell factor-dependent erythroid progenitor .
rxr , rar , and c-erba/tr -specific ligand be find to induce erythroid-specific gene expression and to accelerate erythroid differentiation in culture , with t3 be most effective .
furthermore , while ligand-activated c-erba/tr accelerate differentiation , unliganded c-erba/tr effectively block differentiation and support sustained progenitor growth in culture .
thus , c-erba/tr appear to act a a binary switch affect erythroid cell fate : unliganded c-erba/tr support growth while ligand-activated c-erba/tr induce differentiation .
additionally , to determine the impact of rxr for erythroid cell development , dominant interfere mutant rxrs , lack the transcriptional activator function af-1 and af-2 , or af-2 only , or the entire dna-binding domain , be introduce into erythroid progenitor cell via recombinant retrovirus vector and analyze for rxr -specific effect .
it be find that expression of wild-type rxr and of the rxr mutant devoid of af-1 and/or af-2 support a transient outgrowth of erythroid cell .
in marked contrast , expression of the dominant interfere deltadna-binding domain rxr , contain a deletion of the entire dna-binding domain , be incompatible with erythroid cell growth in vitro , suggest a pivotal role of rxr for erythroid cell development .
cross-linking of cd30 induce hiv expression in chronically infected t cell .
cd30 , a member of the tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) receptor family , be express constitutively on the surface of the human t cell line ach-2 , which be chronically infect with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv ) -1 .
we demonstrate that cross-linking cd30 with an anti- cd30 -specific monoclonal antibody , which mimic the describe biological activity of the cd30 ligand ( cd30l ) , result in hiv expression .
cd30 cross-linking do not alter proliferation of ach-2 cell and the induction of hiv expression be not mediate by endogenous tnf alpha/beta .
furthermore , cross-linking of cd30 lead to nf-kappa b activation and enhance hiv transcription .
thus , cd30 -cd30l interaction mediate the induction of hiv expression by a kappa b-dependent pathway that be independent of tnf .
this mechanism may be important in the activation of hiv expression from latently infected cd4+ t cell , especially in lymphoid organ where cell to cell contact be conducive to receptor-ligand interaction .
ets1 , nfkappab and ap1 synergistically transactivate the human gm-csf promoter .
activation of helper t cell result in coordinate expression of a number of cytokine involve in differentiation , proliferation and activation of the haematopoietic system .
granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) be one such cytokine , whose increase expression result mostly from increase in transcription .
cis-acting element with nfkappab , ap1 and ets -like bind motif have be identify in the promoter region of the gm-csf gene , and be important or essential for transcriptional activity follow t cell activation .
ets1 be a transcription factor of the ets family that be express in t cell .
we have previously show that ets1 can transactivate gm-csf in jurkat t cell , but only after the cell have be stimulate by treatment with pma and ionomycin , agent that mimic t cell activation .
thus we propose that ets1 , which be express constitutively in jurkat cell , may act in concert with pma/ionomycin inducible factor .
here we show that ets1 can transactivate a gm-csf reporter construct in unstimulated jurkat cell , provide that either nfkappab or ap1 transcription factor be supply by co-transfection .
we confirm that binding of endogenous nfkappab and ap1 be induce follow pma /ionomycin treatment of t cell .
transactivation by ets1 , nfkappab and ap1 be synergistic , and mutation of the individual bind site reveal that the transcriptional activity of these factor be interdependent .
our result suggest that constitutive ets1 , and inducible nfkappab and ap1 , cooperate a part of a high order transcriptional complex in activate t cell .
comparative analysis identify conserve tumor necrosis factor receptor -associated factor 3 binding site in the human and simian epstein-barr virus oncogene lmp1 .
nonhuman primate be naturally infect with a b-lymphotropic herpesvirus closely related to epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) .
these simian ebv share considerable genetic , biologic , and epidemiologic feature with human ebv , include virus-induced tumorigenesis .
however , latent , transformation-associated viral gene demonstrate marked sequence divergence among specie despite the conserve function .
we have clone the latent membrane protein 1 ( lmp1 ) homologs from the simian ebv naturally infect baboon ( cercopithicine herpesvirus 12 , herpesvirus papio ) and rhesus monkey ( cercopithicine herpesvirus 15 ) for a comparative study with the human ebv oncogene .
the transmembrane domain be well conserve , but there be striking sequence divergence of the carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic domain essential for b-cell immortalization and interaction with the tumor necrosis factor receptor signaling pathway .
nevertheless , the simian ebv lmp1s retain most function in common with ebv lmp1 , include the ability to induce nf-(kappa)b activity in human cell , to bind the tumor necrosis factor-associated factor 3 ( traf3 ) in vitro , and to induce expression of tumor necrosis factor-responsive gene , such a icam1 , in human b lymphocyte .
multiple traf3 binding site contain a pxqxt/s core sequence can be identify in the simian ebv lmp1s by an in vitro binding assay .
a pxqxt/s-containing sequence be also present in the cytoplasmic domain of the hodgkin 's disease marker , cd30 , and bind traf3 in vitro .
the last 13 amino acid contain a pxqxt/s sequence be highly conserve in human and simian ebv lmp1 but do not bind traf3 , suggest a distinct role for this conserve region of lmp1 .
the conserve traf3 binding site in lmp1 and the cd30 hodgkin 's disease marker provide further evidence that a traf3 -mediated signal transduction pathway may be important in malignant transformation .
overexpression of hsf2-beta inhibit hemin -induced heat shock gene expression and erythroid differentiation in k562 cell .
acquisition of heat shock factor 2 ( hsf2 ) dna binding activity be accompany by induce transcription of heat shock gene in hemin-treated k562 cell undergo erythroid differentiation .
previous study reveal that hsf2 consist of two alternatively splice isoforms , hsf2-alpha and hsf2-beta , whose relative abundance be developmentally regulate and vary between different tissue .
to investigate whether the molar ratio of hsf2-alpha and hsf2-beta isoforms be crucial for the activation of hsf2 and whether the hsf2 isoforms play functionally distinct role during the hemin-mediated erythroid differentiation , we generate cell clone express different level of hsf2-alpha and hsf2-beta .
we show that in parental k562 cell , the hsf2-alpha isoform be predominantly express and hsf2 can be activate upon hemin treatment .
in contrast , when hsf2-beta be express at level exceed those of endogenous hsf2-alpha , the hemin-induced dna binding activity and transcription of heat shock gene be repress , whereas overexpression of hsf2-alpha result in an enhance hemin response .
furthermore , the hemin -induced accumulation of globin , know a a marker of erythroid differentiation , be decrease in cell overexpressing hsf2-beta .
we suggest that hsf2-beta act a a negative regulator of hsf2 activity during hemin-mediated erythroid differentiation of k562 cell .
control of i kappa b-alpha proteolysis by site-specific , signal-induced phosphorylation .
i kappa b-alpha inhibit transcription factor nf-kappa b by retain it in the cytoplasm .
various stimulus , typically those associate with stress or pathogen , rapidly inactivate i kappa b-alpha .
this liberate nf-kappa b to translocate to the nucleus and initiate transcription of gene important for the defense of the organism .
activation of nf-kappa b correlate with phosphorylation of i kappa b-alpha and require the proteolysis of this inhibitor .
when either serine-32 or serine-36 of i kappa b-alpha be mutate , the protein do not undergo signal-induced phosphorylation or degradation , and nf-kappa b could not be activate .
these result suggest that phosphorylation at one or both of these residue be critical for activation of nf-kappa b .
down-regulation of nf-kappa b protein level in activate human lymphocyte by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ publish erratum appear in proc natl acad sci u s a 1996 jan 9 ; 93 ( 1 ) : 524 ]
the effect of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25(oh)2)d3 ] , a steroid hormone with immunomodulating property , on nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) protein be examine in in vitro activate normal human lymphocyte by western blot analysis .
over a 72-hr period of activation , the expression of the 50-kda nf-kappa b , p50 , and it precursor , p105 , be increase progressively .
when cell be activate in the presence of 1,25(oh)2d3 , the level of the mature protein as well a it precursor be decrease .
the effect of the hormone on the level of p50 be demonstrable in the cytosolic and nuclear compartment ; it require between 4 and 8 hr and be specific , a 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 and 24,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 be ineffective .
besides p50 , 1,25(oh)2d3 decrease the level of another nf-kappa b protein , namely c-rel .
in addition , 1,25(oh)2d3 decrease the abundance of a specific dna-protein complex form upon incubation of nuclear extract from activate lymphocyte with a label nf-kappa b dna binding motif .
far , 1,25(oh)2d3 inhibit the transcriptional activity of nf-kappa b in jurkat cell transiently transfected with a construct contain four tandem repeat of the nf-kappa b binding sequence of the immunoglobulin kappa light chain gene link to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene .
these observation demonstrate directly that there be de novo synthesis of nf-kappa b during human lymphocyte activation and suggest that this process be hormonally regulate .
two distinct transcription factor that bind the immunoglobulin enhancer microe5/kappa 2 motif .
activity of the immunoglobulin heavy and kappa light chain gene enhancer depend on a complex interplay of ubiquitous and developmentally regulate protein .
two complementary dna be isolate that encode protein , denote itf-1 and itf-2 , that be express in a variety of cell type and bind the microe5/kappa 2 motif find in both heavy and kappa light chain enhancer .
the complementary dna be the product of distinct gene , yet both itf-1 and itf-2 be structurally and functionally similar .
the two protein interact with one another through their putative helix-loop-helix motif and each possess a distinct domain that dictate transcription activation .
mineralocorticoid effector mechanism in preeclampsia .
mineralocorticoid effector mechanism be evaluate in 29 patient with preeclampsia and in 25 uncomplicated pregnancy by measurement of plasma aldosterone , level of mineralocorticoid receptor ( mr ) in mononuclear leucocyte , and subtraction potential difference ( spd ; rectal minus oral value ) .
mean value for plasma aldosterone be not different between the two group , but significant difference be observe for mr ( preeclampsia , 81 +/- 44 receptors/cell ; control , 306 +/- 168 ) and spd ( preeclampsia , 65 +/- 7 mv ; control , 12 +/- 5 mv ) .
in six case we determine mr , plasma aldosterone , and spd in patient with preeclampsia before and 3 month after delivery .
mr be reduce before delivery ( 96 +/- 27 receptors/cell ) , and spd increase ( 64 +/- 8 mv ) , with both parameter normalize after delivery ( mr , 242 +/- 79 ; spd , 14.0 +/- 4 mv ) .
aldosterone level return to normal nonpregnant value after delivery .
these data suggest an important role for abnormality in mineralocorticoid effector mechanism in the etiology of preeclampsia and could be an useful marker for diagnosis .
oxidant , transcription factor , and intestinal inflammation .
it be now well appreciate that chronic gut inflammation be characterize by enhance production of reactive metabolite of oxygen and nitrogen .
some of these oxidant be know to modulate the expression of a variety of gene that be involve in the immune and inflammatory response .
for example , certain oxidant be know to activate the nuclear transcription factor kappa b , which regulate the expression of a variety of different adhesion molecule , cytokine , and enzyme .
oxidant be also know to activate another transcription factor , activator protein-1 .
this transcription factor be compose of product from the fo and jun proto-oncogene family and be believe to be important in regulate cell growth and proliferation .
finally , oxidant be believe to promote intestinal epithelial cell apoptosis , and the b-cell lymphoma/leukemia-2 gene product be believe to inhibit this phenomenon in an antioxidant-dependent manner .
take together , these observation suggest that nontoxic concentration of reactive metabolite of oxygen and nitrogen play an important role in regulate the expression of gene involve in the inflammatory response and in modulate apoptosis .
increase interleukin 2 transcription in murine lymphocyte by ciprofloxacin .
the fluoroquinolone antibiotic , ciprofloxacin ( cipro ) , induce hyperproduction of interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) and interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) in stimulate human peripheral blood lymphocyte .
in this investigation an enhance and prolonged il-2 and il-2 mrna response be also detect in both stimulate ( t cell mitogen or alloantigens ) murine splenocytes and in the stimulate murine t cell line el-4 in the presence of ciprofloxacin ( 5-80 micrograms/ml ) a compare to control cell without antibiotic .
however , in contrast to human lymphocyte , ifn-gamma production be inhibit and ifn-gamma mrna level be unaffected at 24 h and only slightly upregulated at 48 and 72 h of culture in murine splenocytes incubate with cipro ( 20 micrograms/ml ) .
el-4 cell be transfected with a plasmid contain the il-2 promoter and enhancer region link to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) reporter gene .
analysis of cat activity reveal that cipro enhance il-2 gene induction .
in addition , el-4 cell incubate with ciprofloxacin show an early peak and more activate nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat-1 ) a compare to control cell without antibiotic .
cipro do not affect the nuclear transcription factor ap-1 or nfil-2a .
take together , cipro inhibit ifn-gamma synthesis , but enhance il-2 production in murine lymphocyte by mean of influence nfat-1 and cause an increase il-2 transcription .
mildly oxidize low-density lipoprotein decrease early production of interleukin 2 and nuclear factor kappab bind to dna in activate t- lymphocyte .
activate t-lymphocytes be find early in atherosclerosis lesion , but little be know about their role .
oxidize low-density lipoprotein ( oxldls ) be consider to be involve in the pathogenesis of the lesion , and we have previously demonstrate that oxldls inhibit not only interleukin ( il ) -2-receptor expression on the surface of in vitro-activated t-lymphocytes but also their proliferation .
we have now investigate the effect of oxldls on blast differentiation , on il-2 synthesis and on the activation of the nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) system in activate lymphocyte .
mildly oxldls ( 50 and 100 microgram/ml ) decrease the number of lymphoblast and the level of il-2 concentration in the culture supernatant after activation of lymphocyte by phytohaemagglutinin and pma+ ionomycin .
the inhibition of il-2 production be observe in the cd3 (+) t-lymphocyte cytoplasm as early a 4 h after activation by pma+ ionomycin .
the study of nf-kappab show that oxldls lead to a decrease of activation-induced p65/ p50 nf-kappab heterodimer binding to dna , whereas the presence of the constitutive nuclear form of p50 dimer be unchanged .
this be correlate with an unchanged level of the active form of the cytosolic inhibitor protein ikappab-alpha .
take together , these observation suggest that the immunosuppressive effect of oxldls might operate via a dysregulation of the t-lymphocyte activation mechanism .
a novel growth-factor-dependent myeloid cell line derive from mouse bone marrow cell contain progenitor endowed with high proliferative potential .
constitutive expression of human colony-stimulating factor-1 receptor ( csf-1r ) confer long-lasting csf-1 -dependent proliferation to mouse myeloid cell line .
we develop mouse transgenic for human csf-1r because mouse csf-1 can not activate human csf-1r .
then bone marrow cell from transgenic mouse be plat onto ms-5 stromal cell express the membrane form of human csf-1 ( 2m-1 cell ) in order to combine the hematopoietic supporting property of stromal cell and the proliferative effect of csf-1 .
thus , we be able to derive a hematopoietic cell line , call 47.10 , that grow indefinitely under these condition , whereas no cell line could be develop from nontransgenic mouse .
proliferation of 47.10 cell be severely affect by neutralize anti- csf-1r monoclonal antibody .
morphologic and cytofluorometry analysis establish that most 47.10 cell be immature myelomonocytic cell .
consistent with this phenotype , the myeloid transcription factor pu.1 , but not the erythroid transcription factor gata-1 , be express in 47.10 cell .
a few 47.10 cell ( 3-5 % ) do not express lineage specific marker ; they differentiate spontaneously to lineage-positive cell after replating on 2m-1 cell .
in agar culture , 47.10 cell form 7- and 14-day colony in response to a cocktail of granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( 2.5 ng/ml ) , interleukin-3 ( 1 ng/ml ) , and mouse csf-1 ( 10 ng/ml ) .
under these condition , about 0.5 % of 47.10 cell form large 14-day colony ( > 1 mm ) compose of mature monocyte and granulocyte , reflect the presence of progenitor endowed with high proliferative potential ( hpp- 47.10 cell ) .
in conclusion , we have characterize a novel continuous myeloid cell line present a hierarchical structure similar to that of the bone marrow progenitor cell compartment .
defective survival and activation of thymocytes in transgenic mouse express a catalytically inactive form of ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase iv .
we have generate transgenic mouse that express a catalytically inactive form of ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase iv ( camkiv ) specifically in thymic t cell .
the presence of this protein result in a markedly reduce thymic cellularity , although the distribution of the remain cell be normal base on evaluation of the cd4 and cd8 cell surface antigen that be use to gauge t cell development .
isolate thymic t cell from the transgenic mouse also show a dramatically decrease survival rate when evaluate in culture under condition that do not favor activation .
when challenge with an activate stimulus such a alpha- cd3 or a combination of phorbol ester plus ionophore , the cell be severely compromise in their ability to produce the cytokine interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) .
reduction of il-2 production be secondary to the inability to phosphorylate the camp response element binding protein , creb , and induce expression of the immediate early gene such a fo b that be require to transactivate the il-2 promoter .
because transgene expression be regulate by the proximal promoter of the murine lck gene and this promoter be inactivate in t cell that exit the thymus , the mutant hcamkiv be not present in peripheral t cell .
consequently , t lymphocyte present in the spleen can be activate normally in response to either stimulus mention above , demonstrate that the effect of the inactive camkiv on activation be reversible .
our result suggest that camkiv may represent a physiologically relevant creb kinase in t cell and that the enzyme be also require to ensure normal expansion of t cell in the thymus .
whereas the pathway responsible for this latter role be yet to be elucidate , it be unlikely to include creb phosphorylation .
characterisation of regulatory sequence at the epstein-barr virus bamhi w promoter .
epstein-barr virus , a human gammaherpesvirus , possess a unique set of latent gene whose constitutive expression in b cell lead to cell growth transformation .
the initiation of this growth transforming infection depend on a viral promoter in bamhi w ( wp ) whose regulation be poorly understand .
use wp reporter construct in in vitro transfection assay , we find that wp be 11- to 190-fold more active in b cell than in non-b cell line and that three region of the promoter ( term uas1 , uas2 , and uas3 ) contribute to transcriptional activation .
the upstream region uas3 ( -1168 to -440 ) and uas2 ( -352 to -264 ) both function in a cell lineage-independent manner and be together responsible for the bulk of wp activity in non-b cell ; mutational analysis indicate the importance of a yy1 binding site in uas2 in that context .
by contrast , uas1 ( -140 to -87 ) be b cell specific and be the key determinant of the promoter 's increase activity in b cell line .
mutational analysis of uas1 sequence combine with in vitro bandshift assay reveal the presence of three bind site for cellular factor in this region .
when mutation that abolish factor binding in bandshift assay be introduce into a wp reporter construct , the loss of any one of the three uas1 binding site be sufficient to reduce promoter activity by 10- to 30-fold in b cell .
from sequence analysis , two of these appear to be novel transcription factor binding site , whereas the third be identify a a cyclic amp response element ( cre ) .
our data indicate that this cre interact with creb and atf1 protein present in b cell nuclear extract and that this interaction be important for wp activity .
interaction of sickle erythrocyte with endothelial cell in the presence of endothelial cell conditioned medium induce oxidant stress lead to transendothelial migration of monocyte .
the abnormal adherence of sickle red blood cell ( s rbc ) to endothelial cell have be think to contribute to vascular occlusion , a major cause of morbidity in sickle cell disease ( scd ) .
we determine whether the interaction of s rbc with culture endothelial cell induce cellular oxidant stress that would culminate in expression of cell adhesion molecule ( cam ) involve in the adhesion and diapedesis of monocyte and the adherence of s reticulocyte .
we show that the interaction of s rbc at 2 % concentration in the presence of multimers of von willebrand factor ( vwf ) , derive from endothelial cell-derived condition medium ( e-cm ) with culture human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvec ) , result in a fivefold increase formation of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substance ( tbars ) and activation of the transcription factor nf-kb , both indicator of cellular oxidant stress .
normal rbc show none of these phenomenon .
the oxidant stress-induced signaling result in an increase surface expression of a subset of cam , icam-1 , e-selectin , and vcam-1 in huvec .
the addition of oxygen radical scavenger enzyme ( catalase , superoxide dismutase ) and antioxidant ( probucol ) inhibit these event .
additionally , preincubation of huvec with a synthetic peptide arg-gly-asp ( rgd ) that prevent vwf -mediated adhesion of s rbc reduce the surface expression of vcam-1 and nf-kb activation .
furthermore , s rbc -induced oxidant stress result in a twofold increase in the transendothelial migration of both monocyte-like hl-60 cell and human peripheral blood monocyte , and approximately a sixfold increase in platelet-endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 ( pecam-1 ) phosphorylation , each of which be block by protein kinase c inhibitor and antioxidant .
these result suggest that the adherence/contact of s rbc to endothelial cell in large vessel can generate enhance oxidant stress lead to increase adhesion and diapedesis of monocyte , as well a heighten adherence of s reticulocyte , indicate that injury/activation of endothelium can contribute to vaso-occlusion in scd .
characterization of a new tissue-specific transcription factor bind to the simian virus 40 enhancer tc-ii ( nf-kappa b ) element .
we have biochemically and functionally characterize a new transcription factor , np-tcii , which be present in nucleus from unstimulated t and b lymphocyte but be not find in nonhematopoietic cell .
this factor have a dna-binding specificity similar to that of nf-kappa b but be unrelated to this or other rel protein by functional and biochemical criterion .
it can also be distinguish from other previously describe lymphocyte-specific dna-binding protein .
effect of intranasal glucocorticoid on endogenous glucocorticoid peripheral and central function .
glucocorticoid be among the most potent antiinflammatory agent that can be use in the treatment of rhinitis .
their mechanism of action be multiple and complex and a number of report describe significant systemic effect of locally administer glucocorticoid .
in order to evaluate the short-term systemic effect of intranasally administer glucocorticoid , 14 normal healthy subject be treat with two dos of either budesonide ( bud ) or fluticasone propionate ( fp ) for 2 week .
before treatment , at regular interval during the treatment , 1 week and finally 6 week after termination of treatment , the effect on glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) and methallothionein ( mtiia ) mrna expression level be examine in peripheral lymphocyte use a solution hybridization assay .
serum cortisol , osteocalcin and urinary cortisol level be also determine .
an insulin tolerance test ( itt ) be perform at the end of the second week of treatment and at the end of the 6-week washout period with no statistically significant change in cortisol response .
in peripheral lymphocyte , gr mrna level be significantly down-regulated .
mtiia mrna level increase significantly .
serum osteocalcin decrease significantly during treatment with both bud and fp .
serum cortisol decrease after 1 week of treatment whereas urinary cortisol be not affect until the second week of treatment .
in conclusion , intranasal glucocorticoid at clinically recommend dos have not only significant systemic effect on adrenal function , but also have an effect on specific gene expression in peripheral lymphocyte .
these effect be receptor-dependent , reversible , and accord to serum and urinary cortisol level and itt , leave the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal function intact .
finally , these short-term systemic effect be not associate with any of the noticeable side-effects usually observe during long-term treatment with glucocorticoid .
establishment and characterization of ebv-positive and ebv-negative primary effusion lymphoma cell line harbour human herpesvirus type-8 .
in this study we report on the establishment and characterization of two novel lymphoma cell line ( cro-ap/3 and cro-ap/5 ) which carry infection by human herpesvirus type-8 ( hhv-8 ) and have derive from aids-related primary effusion lymphoma ( pel ) .
these two cell line be representative of different virologic subtypes of pel , i.e. hhv-8 +/ebv- pel in the case of cro-ap/3 and hhv-8 +/ebv+ pel in the case of cro-ap/5 .
consistent with the diagnosis of pel , both cro-ap/3 and cro-ap/5 express indeterminate ( i.e. non-b , non-t ) phenotype although immunogenotypic study document their b-cell origin .
both cell line be devoid of genetic lesion of c-myc , bcl-2 and p53 as well a gross rearrangement of bcl-6 .
detailed histogenetic characterization of these novel pel cell line suggest that pel may derive from a post-germinal centre b cell which have undergo pre-terminal differentiation .
the cro-ap/3 and cro-ap/5 cell line may provide a valuable model for clarify the pathogenesis of pel .
in particular , these cell line may help understand the relative contribution of hhv-8 and ebv to pel growth and development and may facilitate the identification of recurrent cytogenetic abnormality highlight putative novel cancer related locus relevant to pel .
transcription factor require for lymphoid lineage commitment .
intimate interaction between multipotential hemopoietic stem cell and their microenvironment work towards redefine the identity and the differentiative fate of these primitive cell .
molecular cue deliver by the microenvironment frequently act in an instructive fashion by initiate intracellular signaling pathway that ultimately target a select group of transcription factor .
these transcriptional regulator in turn trigger a cascade of genetic change that ultimately determine the course of the cell during differentiation .
gene inactivation study on the pu.1 , ikaros and gata-3 gene have reveal that their encode factor be essential for the early commitment step into the b and t lymphoid lineage .
potent inhibition of hiv type 1 replication by an antiinflammatory alkaloid , cepharanthine , in chronically infected monocytic cell .
cepharanthine be a biscoclaurine alkaloid isolate from stephania cepharantha hayata and have be show to have antiinflammatory , antiallergic , and immunomodulatory activity in vivo .
a several inflammatory cytokine and oxidative stress be involve in the pathogenesis of hiv-1 infection , we investigate the inhibitory effect of cepharanthine on tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) - and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) - induced hiv-1 replication in chronically infected cell line .
two chronically hiv-1 -infected cell line , u1 ( monocytic ) and ach-2 ( t lymphocytic ) , be stimulate with tnf-alpha or pma and culture in the presence of various concentration of the compound .
hiv-1 replication be determine by p24 antigen level .
the inhibitory effect of cepharanthine on hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) -driven gene expression and nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) activation be also examine .
cepharanthine dose dependently inhibit hiv-1 replication in tnf-alpha- and pma- stimulated u1 cell but not in ach-2 cell .
it 50 % effective and cytotoxic concentration be 0.016 and 2.2 microg/ml in pma -stimulated u1 cell , respectively .
cepharanthine be find to suppress hiv-1 ltr -driven gene expression through the inhibition of nf-kappab activation .
these result indicate that cepharanthine be a highly potent inhibitor of hiv-1 replication in a chronically infected monocytic cell line .
since biscoclaurine alkaloid , contain cepharanthine a a major component , be widely use for the treatment of patient with various inflammatory disease in japan , cepharanthine should be far pursue for it chemotherapeutic potential in hiv-1 -infected patient .
the development of functionally responsive t cell .
the work review in this article separate t cell development into four phase .
first be an expansion phase prior to tcr rearrangement , which appear to be correlate with programming of at least some response gene for inducibility .
this phase can occur to some extent outside of the thymus .
however , the profound t cell deficit of nude mouse indicate that the thymus be by far the most potent site for induce the expansion per se , even if other site can induce some response acquisition .
second be a controlled phase of tcr gene rearrangement .
the detail of the regulatory mechanism that select particular locus for rearrangement be still not know .
it seem that the rearrangement of the tcr gamma locus in the gamma delta lineage may not always take place at a developmental stage strictly equivalent to the rearrangement of tcr beta in the alpha beta lineage , and it be not clear just how early the two lineage diverge .
in the tcr alpha beta lineage , however , the final gene rearrangement event be accompany by rapid proliferation and an interruption in cellular response gene inducibility .
the loss of conventional responsiveness be probably cause by alteration at the level of signaling , and may be a manifestation of the physiological state that be a precondition for selection .
third be the complex process of selection .
whereas peripheral t cell can undergo form of positive selection ( by antigen-driven clonal expansion ) and negative selection ( by abortive stimulation lead to anergy or death ) , neither be exactly the same phenomenon that occur in the thymic cortex .
negative selection in the cortex appear to be a suicidal inversion of antigen responsiveness : instead of turn on il-2 expression , the activate cell destroy it own chromatin .
the gene that need to be induce for this response be not yet identify , but it be unquestionably a form of activation .
it be interesting that in human and rat , cortical thymocytes undergo negative selection can still induce il-2r alpha expression and even be rescue in vitro , if exogenous il-2 be provide .
perhaps murine thymocytes be deny this form of rescue because they shut off il-2r beta chain expression at an early stage or because they may be uncommonly bcl-2 deficient ( cf. sentman et al. , 1991 ; strasser et al. , 1991 ) .
even so , medullary thymocytes remain at least partially susceptible to negative selection even a they continue to mature .
differential monocyte adhesion and adhesion molecule expression in venous and arterial endothelial cell .
we compare u-937 cell adhesion and adhesion molecule expression in human umbilical venous ( huvecs ) and arterial ( huaecs ) endothelial cell expose to tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , interleukin-1 , and lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
tnf and lp stimulate vascular cell adhesion molecule ( vcam ) -1 surface expression and adhesion of u-937 monocyte-like cell to huvecs but not to huaecs .
antibody study demonstrate that in huvecs at least 75 % of the adhesion response be vcam-1 mediate .
interleukin-1 stimulate u-937 cell adhesion to and vcam-1 surface expression in both huvecs and huaecs .
pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate and the proteasome inhibitor mg-132 block tnf - and lp -stimulated u-937 cell adhesion to huvecs .
these agent also significantly decrease tnf - and lp -stimulated increase in huvec surface vcam-1 .
tnf increase vcam-1 protein and mrna in huvecs that be block by pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate .
however , neither tnf or lp stimulate vcam-1 expression in huaecs .
tnf stimulate expression of both intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and e-selectin in huvecs , but in huaecs , only intercellular adhesion molecule-1 be increase .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay demonstrate no difference in the pattern of tnf -stimulated nuclear factor-kappab activation between huvecs and huaecs .
these study demonstrate a novel and striking insensitivity of arterial endothelium to the effect of tnf and lp and indicate a dissociation between the ability of huaecs to upregulate nuclear factor-kappab and vcam-1 .
isolation of a candidate repressor/activator , nf-e1 ( yy-1 , delta ) , that bind to the immunoglobulin kappa 3' enhancer and the immunoglobulin heavy-chain mu e1 site .
we have determine that the developmental control of immunoglobulin kappa 3' enhancer ( kappa e3' ) activity be the result of the combined influence of positive- and negative-acting element .
we show that a central core in the kappa e3' enhancer be active at the pre-b-cell stage but be repress by flank negative-acting element .
the negative-acting sequence repress enhancer activity in a position- and orientation-independent manner at the pre-b-cell stage .
we have isolate a human cdna clone encode a zinc finger protein ( nf-e1 ) that bind to the negative-acting segment of the kappa e3' enhancer .
this protein also bind to the immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer mu e1 site .
nf-e1 be encode by the same gene a the yy-1 protein , which bind to the adeno-associated virus p5 promoter .
nf-e1 be also the human homologue of the mouse delta protein , which bind to ribosomal protein gene promoter .
the predict amino acid sequence of this protein contain feature characteristic of transcriptional activator as well a transcriptional repressor .
cotransfection study with this cdna indicate that it can repress basal promoter activity .
the apparent dual function of this protein be discuss .
cd30 -dependent degradation of traf2 : implication for negative regulation of traf signaling and the control of cell survival .
cd30 be a cell-surface receptor that can augment lymphocyte activation and survival through it ability to induce the transcription factor nf-kappab .
cd30 , however , have also be implicate in the induction of apoptotic cell death of lymphocyte .
here we show that one of the effect of cd30 signal transduction be to render cell sensitive to apoptosis induce by the type 1 tumor necrosis factor receptor ( tnfr1 ) .
this sensitization be dependent on the traf-binding site within the cd30 cytoplasmic domain .
one of the protein that bind to these site be traf2 , a signal transduction molecule that be also utilize by tnfr1 to mediate the activation of several downstream kinase and transcription factor .
during cd30 signal transduction , we find that binding of traf2 to the cytoplasmic domain of cd30 result in the rapid depletion of traf2 and the associate protein traf1 by proteolysis .
these data suggest a model in which cd30 limit it own ability to transduce cell survival signal through signal-coupled depletion of traf2 .
depletion of intracellular traf2 and it coassociated protein also increase the sensitivity of the cell to undergo apoptosis during activation of death-inducing receptor such a tnfr1 .
consistent with this hypothesis , expression of a dominant-negative form of traf2 be find to potentiate tnfr1 -mediated death .
these study provide a potential mechanism through which cd30 , as well a other traf-binding member of the tnfr superfamily , can negatively regulate cell survival .
c/ebp beta regulation of the tumor necrosis factor alpha gene .
activate macrophage contribute to chronic inflammation by the secretion of cytokine and proteinase .
tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) be particularly important in this process because of it ability to regulate other inflammatory mediator in an autocrine and paracrine fashion .
the mechanism ( s ) responsible for the cell type-specific regulation of tnf alpha be not know .
we present data to show that the expression of tnf alpha be regulate by the transcription factor c/ebp beta ( nf-il6 ) .
c/ebp beta activate the tnf alpha gene promoter in cotransfection assay and bind to it at a site which fail to bind the closely related protein c/ebp alpha .
finally , a dominant-negative version of c/ebp beta block tnf alpha promoter activation in myeloid cell .
our result implicate c/ebp beta a an important regulator of tnf alpha by myelomonocytic cell .
inhibition of t cell and promotion of natural killer cell development by the dominant negative helix loop helix factor id3 .
bipotential t/natural killer ( nk ) progenitor cell be present in the human thymus .
despite their bipotential capacity , these progenitor develop predominantly to t cell in the thymus .
the mechanism control this developmental choice be unknown .
here we present evidence that a member ( s ) of the family of basic helix loop helix ( bhlh ) transcription factor determine lineage specification of nk/t cell progenitor .
the natural dominant negative hlh factor id3 , which block transcriptional activity of a number of known bhlh factor , be express in cd34+ progenitor cell by retrovirus-mediated gene transfer .
constitutive expression of id3 completely block development of cd34+ cell into t cell in a fetal thymic organ culture ( ftoc ) .
in contrast , development into nk cell in an ftoc be enhance .
thus , the activity of a bhlh transcription factor be necessary for t lineage differentiation of bipotential precursor , in the absence of which a default pathway lead to nk cell development be choose .
our result identify a molecular switch for lineage specification in early lymphoid precursor of human .
vitamin d3- and retinoic acid- induced monocytic differentiation : interaction between the endogenous vitamin d3 receptor , retinoic acid receptor , and retinoid x receptor in u-937 cell .
retinoic acid ( ra ) and 1,25 alpha-dihydroxycholecalciferol ( vitd3 ) be potent regulator of hematopoletic differentiation .
yet , little be know a to how the ra and vitd3 receptor network operate in hematopoietic cell , and whether receptor interaction can explain the interplay between the ra - and vitd3 -signaling pathway during differentiation .
therefore , we analyze the expression , dna binding , and transcriptional activity of the endogenous ra and vitd3 receptor [ retinoic acid receptor ( rars ) , retinoid x receptor ( rxrs ) , and vitd3 receptor ( vdr ) ] in the u-937 cell line , in which ra and vitd3 induce distinct monocytic differentiation pathway .
vitd3 induction result in the formation of vdr /rxr dna-binding complex on both vitd3 response element and ra response element ( rares ) .
however , transcriptional activation be only observe from a vitd3 response element-driven reporter construct .
several dna-binding complex be detect on rares in undifferentiated cell .
stimulation by ra result in increase rar beta /rxr dna binding , activate rare -dependent transcription , and increase expression of rar-beta .
concomitant stimulation by vitd3 inhibit the ra -stimulated formation of rar beta /rxr heterodimers , favor vdr /rxr binding to the rare .
also , vitd3 inhibit the expression of cd23 and cd49f , characteristic marker of retinoid-induced u-937 cell differentiation .
in contrast , neither the ra -stimulated , rare -mediated transcription nor the induce rar-beta expression be suppress by vitd3 , suggest that vitd3 selectively inhibit the retinoid-induced differentiation program but not the rare -mediated signal .
these result demonstrate a complex role for vitd3 in modify the retinoid differentiation pathway and may have implication for differentiation-inducing therapy of hematopoietic tumor .
regulation of the beta-globin locus .
transcription of the human beta-globin gene cluster depend upon upstream regulatory sequence , which be collectively term the locus control region .
recent study have provide new insight into how the individual gene of the cluster be regulate through development .
the crux of transcriptional activation be how the locus control region communicate with the gene-proximal regulatory element .
modulation of normal erythroid differentiation by the endogenous thyroid hormone and retinoic acid receptor : a possible target for v-erba oncogene action .
the v-erba oncogene , a mutate version of the thyroid hormone receptor alpha ( c-erba/tr-alpha ) , inhibit erythroid differentiation and constitutively repress transcription of certain erythrocyte gene , suggest a normal function of the proto-oncogene c-erba in erythropoiesis .
here we demonstrate that the endogenous thyroid hormone receptor alpha ( c-erba/tr-alpha ) and the closely related retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar-alpha ) play a role in the regulation of normal erythroid differentiation .
retinoic acid ( ra ) distinctly modulate the erythroid differentiation program of normal erythroid progenitor and erythroblast reversibly transform by a conditional tyrosine kinase oncogene .
when add pulsewise to immature cell , differentiation be accelerate while more mature cell undergo premature cell death .
thyroid hormone ( t3 ) alone cause similar but weak effect .
interestingly , t3 strongly enhance the action of ra , suggest cooperative action of the two receptor in modulate erythroid differentiation .
expression of the human rar-alpha in receptor-negative erythroblast confer ra -induced regulation of differentiation to the otherwise unresponsive cell , thus show that the rar-alpha be essential for the ra effect .
likewise , enhance expression of exogenous c-erba/tr-alpha in erythroblast render them susceptible to modulation of differentiation by t3 , suggest a similar function of both receptor .
cell-to-cell contact activate the long terminal repeat of human immunodeficiency virus 1 through it kappab motif .
cell-to-cell contact between peripheral blood lymphocyte and transfected human colonic carcinoma cell line ht29 activate transcription of the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) of human immunodeficiency virus .
hiv-1 ltr transcription be control by a complex array of virus-encoded and cellular protein .
use various construct express a lacz reporter gene under the control of the intact or three deleted form of hiv-1 ltr , we obtain evidence that the kappab regulatory element located in the u3 region be involve in cell-to-cell activation of hiv-1 ltr .
cell-to-cell contact activate in vitro binding of the nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) p50/p65 heterodimer to an hiv-1 kappab oligonucleotide .
cell-to-cell contact activation of nf-kappab be only partially inhibit by 100 microm pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and be not correlate with a significant decrease of cellular inhibitor kappab alpha .
nf-kappab nuclear activation be not detectable before 1 h after cell contact and be dependent on protein synthesis .
cooperation of spi-1/ pu.1 with an activate erythropoietin receptor inhibit apoptosis and epo -dependent differentiation in primary erythroblast and induce their kit ligand-dependent proliferation .
spi-1/ pu.1 be a myeloid- and b-cell specific transcription factor which be also involve in friend virus -induced murine erythroleukemia .
the pre-leukemic phase of friend erythroleukemia result from activation of the erythropoietin receptor ( epor ) by the spleen focus form virus ( sffv ) envelope glycoprotein , follow by the emergence of leukemic clone characterize by overexpression of spi-1 and mutation of the p53 tumor suppressor gene .
we develop a heterologous system to analyze the contribution of these alteration to the induction of primary erythroblast transformation .
avian erythroblast express the activate mouse epor ( r129c ) differentiate into erythrocyte in response to hepo .
expression of spi-1 in these cell inhibit this ability to differentiate and rescue the cell from the apoptotic cell death program normally induce upon hepo withdrawal .
although devoid of any effect by itself , a mutant p53 cooperate with spi-1 and epor ( r129c ) to reinforce both phenotype .
analysis of erythroblast co-expressing spi-1 and the wild-type mouse epor show that differentiation arrest and inhibition of apoptosis depend on specific cooperation between spi-1 and epor ( r129c ) .
this cooperation be also require to induce the sustained proliferation of differentiation-blocked erythroblast in response to ligand activation of the endogenous tyrosine kinase receptor c-kit .
these result show that spi-1/ pu.1 require signal emanate from specific cytokine and growth factor receptor to affect the survival , proliferation and differentiation control of primary erythroblast .
they also suggest that the function of spi-1 /pu.1 in the late phase of friend leukemia require specific signaling from the gp55 -modified epor generate during the early phase of the disease .
mouse lack the transcription factor ciita -- a second look .
we have generate a second line of mouse lack a transcription factor think to be a critical regulator of mhc class ii gene expression , ciita ( for class ii transactivator ) .
our and the previously publish line differ in the deletion that be engineer and by the fact that we remove the neomycin-resistance promoter and structural gene via the cre-loxp recombination system .
characterization of our line lead to two new finding .
first , a substantial number of cell can express class ii molecule in the absence of ciita , albeit at 5-fold reduce level , most notably dendritic cell in s.c. lymph node ; therefore , the ciita gene can not be an absolute ' master gene ' control the expression of class ii molecule , a have be think .
second , in contrast to recent result on human cell line , ciita be not critically involve in the ifn-gamma -induced up-regulation of mhc class i gene .
requirement of gata-1 and p45 nf-e2 expression in butyric acid -induced erythroid differentiation .
butyric acid ( ba ) be know to induce overexpression of fetal hemoglobin and then erythroid differentiation .
therefore , ba be currently under clinical investigation a a potential therapy for the treatment of sickle cell disease and cancer .
nevertheless , the molecular mechanism involve in ba -induced differentiation remain largely unknown .
previous report have show that ba -induced overexpression of erythroid gene occur at the transcriptional level , suggest the involvement of erythroid transcription factor .
here , we intend to demonstrate the requirement of gata-1 and nf-e2 transcription factor in the ba -induced erythroid differentiation of human leukemic k562 cell .
time-course experiment show that nuclear level of gata-1 and p45 nf-e2 protein increase during ba treatment .
moreover , antisense oligodeoxynucleotides target either gata-1 or p45 nf-e2 protein inhibit both protein expression and ba -induced differentiation .
in contrast , ba -induced cell growth inhibition be not affect .
these result provide the first direct evidence for the requirement of gata-1 and nf-e2 in ba -induced differentiation process .
vitamin d receptor expression in human lymphocyte .
signal requirement and characterization by western blot and dna sequencing .
the signal control the expression of the receptor protein for 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 in normal human lymphocyte and the relationship of this protein to the classical vitamin d receptor be examine .
lymphocyte activate with the okt3 antibody to the t-cell antigen receptor express few bind site a compare to lymphocyte that be activate by the polyclonal activator phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) .
however , combination of okt3 and phorbol myristate acetate produce a concentration of bind site similar to the pha -activated cell .
the receptor from okt3 and okt3 + phorbol myristate acetate -activated lymphocyte exhibit decrease binding to dna-cellulose compare to pha -activated lymphocyte .
in lymphocyte activate either by pha or okt3 ( but not in rest cell ) , a 50-kda specie cross-reacting with a monoclonal antibody against the intestinal vitamin d receptor be detect .
finally , rna from activate lymphocyte be amplify by polymerase chain reaction use oligonucleotide primer flank the 196 base pair long region encode the dna-binding domain of the human intestinal receptor .
the amplify product show an identical nucleotide sequence to the dna-binding domain of the human intestinal receptor .
these finding suggest that expression of the 1,25-(oh)2d3 receptor in lymphocyte be trigger by distinct and contingent signal , and that the protein and the mrna encode it be identical to the classical vitamin d receptor .
receptor for interleukin ( il ) -10 and il-6 -type cytokine use similar signaling mechanism for inducing transcription through il-6 response element .
the cytoplasmic domain of the receptor for interleukin 10 ( il-10r ) contain two box 3 sequence motif that have be identify in the signal-transducing receptor subunit for il-6-type cytokine and note to be require for activate stat3 and induce transcription through il-6-responsive element .
to determine whether the il-10r have signaling function similar to il-6r in cell normally express these receptor , leukocyte of the b- , t- , and nk- cell lineage be treat with either cytokine .
both cytokine activate factor that bind to the sis-inducible element and include stat1 and stat3 .
the cell response to il-10 characteristically differ from that to il-2/il-15 , il-4 , and interferon gamma .
the signaling capability of the il-10r for activate specific stat protein and induce gene transcription be define by reconstitution of receptor function in transfected tissue culture cell .
cos-1 cell , co-expressing the human il-10r and individual stat protein , confirm a preference of the il-10r for stat3 and stat1 .
unlike many hematopoietin receptor , the il-10r do not detectably activate stat5 .
the il-10r , together with reporter gene construct contain different il-6-responsive gene element , reconstitute in hepatoma cell an induction of transcription by il-10 that be comparable to that by il-6 .
this regulation could not be appreciably modify by enhance expression of stat protein .
the similar action of il-10r and il-6r on the induction of endogenous il-6 -responsive gene be demonstrate in hepatoma cell stably express the il-10r .
these receptor function require the presence of the box 3 motif , a show by the analysis of the mouse il-10r construct contain progressively truncate cytoplasmic domain .
the data demonstrate that the il-10r , unlike other member of the interferon receptor family , be highly effective in recruit the signaling pathway of il-6 -type cytokine receptor .
platelet-activating factor ( paf ) positively auto-regulates the expression of human paf receptor transcript 1 ( leukocyte-type ) through nf-kappa b .
the human platelet-activating factor receptor ( pafr ) gene be transcribe by two distinct promoter ( promoter 1 and promoter 2 ) to generate two transcript ( designate a pafr transcript 1 and pafr transcript 2 ) , though their open reading frame be identical .
by primer extension analysis to discriminate two transcript , we find that the level of pafr transcript 1 ( leukocyte-type ) , but not pafr transcript 2 ( tissue-type ) , be upregulated by paf as well a by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) in the human stomach cancer cell line ( jr-st cell ) which express both functional pafr transcript 1 and pafr transcript 2 endogenously .
functional analysis of the promoter 1 with a transient expression assay use chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) gene a a reporter show that both paf and tpa activate the promoter 1 but not the deleted promoter lack the three consensus binding site for nf-kappa b located from -571 bp to -459 bp .
these finding suggest a molecular mechanism of positive regulation of pafr gene expression by paf through nf-kappa b , possibly by a phosphorylation reaction involve protein kinase c by paf .
hiv-1 ltr activity in human cd40-activated b lymphocyte be dependent on nf-kappab .
cd40-stimulated human b lymphocyte be highly permissive to a productive infection by the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 .
in these cell , nuclear factor involve in activation of the hiv-1 ltr , which contain the transcriptional control element of the virus , be unknown .
transient expression assay with plasmid contain delete part of the ltr region link to a reporter gene show that the nf-kappab binding site be essential for hiv-1 ltr activity in cd40-stimulated b lymphocyte .
in addition , electrophoretic mobility shift and supershift assay reveal that important nf-kappab binding activity compose of at least p50 , p65 , and c-rel nf-kappab subunit be present in nucleus of cd40-stimulated b cell .
these result confirm at a molecular level the ability of hiv-1 to replicate in b cell and that this activity be strongly associate with nf-kappab .
analysis of the role of protein kinase c -alpha , -epsilon , and -zeta in t cell activation .
t cell express multiple isotypes of protein kinase c ( pkc ) and although it be well accept that pkcs have an important role in t cell activation , little be know about the function of individual pkc isotypes .
to address this issue , mutationally active pkc -alpha , -epsilon , or -zeta have be transfected into t cell and the consequence for t cell activation determine .
p21ras play an essential role in t cell activation .
accordingly , the effect of the constitutively active pkcs be compare to the effect of mutationally activate p21ras .
the data indicate that pkc-epsilon and , to a less extent pkc-alpha but not -zeta , can regulate the transcription factor ap-1 and nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at-1 ) .
the ability of pkc-epsilon to induce transactivation of nf-at-1 and ap-1 be similar to the stimulatory effect of a constitutively activate p21ras .
pkc-epsilon , but not pkc-alpha nor activated p21ras , be able to induce nf-kb activity .
phorbol ester induce expression of cd69 whereas none of the activate pkc isotypes test be able to have this effect .
activate src and p21ras be able to induce cd69 expression .
these result indicate selective function for different pkc isotypes in t cell .
moreover , the data compare the effect of activate ra and pkc mutant suggest that pkc-alpha , p21ras , and pkc-epsilon be not positioned linearly on a single signal transduction pathway .
immune hyperactivation of hiv-1 -infected t cell mediate by tat and the cd28 pathway .
human immunodeficiency virus-type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection be characterize by a chronic state of immune hyperactivation in patient .
infection of human peripheral blood lymphocyte with hiv-1 in vitro result in increase interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) secretion in response to t cell activation via the cd3 and cd28 receptor .
expression of the hiv-1 transactivator tat recapitulate this phenotype and be associate with increase il-2 secretion in response to costimulation with cd3 plus cd28 .
il-2 superinduction by tat occur at the transcriptional level , be mediate by the cd28 -responsive element in the il-2 promoter , and be exclusively dependent on the 29 amino acid encode by the second exon of tat .
regulation of interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain expression and nuclear factor.kappa b activation by protein kinase c in t lymphocyte .
autocrine role of tumor necrosis factor alpha .
the regulation of interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain ( il-2r alpha ) expression and nuclear factor ( nf ) activation by protein kinase c ( pkc ) in rest t cell , have be study .
treatment of human rest t cell with phorbol ester strongly induce the expression of il-2r alpha and the activation of nf.kappa b .
this activation be due to the translocation of p65 and c-rel nf.kappa b protein from cytoplasmic store to the nucleus , where they bind the kappa b sequence of the il-2r alpha promoter either a p50.p65 or a p50. c-rel heterodimers .
interestingly , all of those event be largely indirect and mediate by endogenously secrete tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) , a they be strongly inhibit by a neutralize anti- tnf alpha monoclonal antibody .
furthermore , cyclosporin a , which block tnf alpha production induce by pkc , strongly inhibit il-2r alpha and nf.kappa b activation .
the addition of either tnf alpha or il-2 partially recover cyclosporin a -induced il-2r alpha inhibition , but only tnf alpha completely recover nf.kappa b activation .
those result indicate that , in rest t cell , pkc activation have only a trigger role , whereas the endogenously secrete tnf alpha play an essential role in the quantitative control of the expression of il-2r alpha chain or nf.kappa b activation .
chlorinate dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans and the human immune system .
1 . blood cell receptor in volunteer with moderately increase body burden .
use monoclonal antibody ( mabs ) and flow cytometry , we study a variety of surface receptor on lymphocyte subpopulation of worker with moderately increase body burden of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) and of other polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans ( pcdd/pcdf ) , express here a international-toxicity equivalencies ( i-te ) .
the hypothesis to be test be whether or not human exhibit a similar susceptibility to pcdds/pcdfs with respect to the surface receptor find previously to respond to small dos of 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) in callithrix jacchus .
these be : helper-inducer ( memory ) t cell ( cd4+cd45r0+cd45ra-cd29highcd11a+ ) , cd20+ b cell , and cytotoxic t cell ( cd8+cd56+/cd57+ ) .
furthermore , 68 triple-labellings with mabs be perform on the cell of each volunteer to possibly generate further hypothesis .
it be evaluate whether any of the variable might be use a a biomarker of effect for this class of compound .
there be two main goal : ( 1 ) to evaluate whether worker with a moderately increase pcdd/pcdf -body burden [ 25-140 ppt tcdd or 104-522 ppt i-te in blood fat ] exhibit change in the surface receptor of white blood cell , a observe in previous study in non-human primate , and ( 2 ) to clarify whether person at the upper range [ 10-23 ppt tcdd or 30-90 ppt i-te in blood fat ] of the body burden reference value of a not particularly expose population show detectable deviation in these immunological variable , when compare with person at the low and medium range [ 1-3 ppt tcdd or 9-29 ppt i-te ] of these body burden reference value .
regression analysis of our data reveal slight trend for some of the biomarkers ( e.g. cd45r0+ ) .
with one exception , these be all increase .
none of the alteration observe be of medical relevance .
the slight increase in the percentage of cd4+cd45r0+ cell remain significant even after covariant analysis take age-related change into account .
altogether , the data do not provide any evidence to support an assumption that moderately increase body burden of pcdds/pcdfs in adult induce decrease in the cellular component of the human immune system .
adult human certainly be less susceptible to this action of pcdds/pcdfs than adolescent callithrix jacchus
glucocorticoid receptor in patient with lupus nephritis : relationship between receptor level in mononuclear leukocyte and effect of glucocorticoid therapy .
we investigate the clinical significance of glucocorticoid receptor determination in 20 patient with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) who afterwards develop nephrotic syndrome .
glucocorticoid receptor concentration in mononuclear leukocyte ( mnl ) in these patient be comparable with those in both other patient with sle and healthy person .
improvement in urinary protein excretion and in disease activity , which be score accord to the sle disease activity index system of the university of toronto , closely related to the glucocorticoid receptor concentration in mnl isolate from the corresponding patient .
in summary , glucocorticoid receptor determination in patient with lupus nephritis may be a predictive clue for assess responsiveness to glucocorticoid therapy .
critical cytoplasmic domain of human interleukin-9 receptor alpha chain in interleukin -9-mediated cell proliferation and signal transduction .
interleukin-9 receptor ( il-9r ) complex consist of a ligand-specific alpha chain and il-2r gamma chain .
in this study , two region in the cytoplasmic domain of human il-9ralpha be find to be important for il-9 -mediated cell growth .
a membrane-proximal region that contain the box1 consensus sequence be require for il-9 -induced cell proliferation and tyrosine phosphorylation of janus kinase ( jak ) .
deletion of this region or internal deletion of the box1 motif abrogate il-9 -induced cell proliferation and signal transduction .
however , substitution of the pro-x-pro in the box1 motif with ala-x-ala fail to abolish il-9 -induced cell proliferation but decrease il-9 -mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of jak kinase , insulin receptor substrate-2 , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 ( stat3 ) and expression of c-myc and junb .
another important region be downstream of the box1 motif and contain a stat3 binding motif ylpq .
deletion of this region significantly impair il-9 -induced cell growth , activation of jak kinase , insulin receptor substrate-2 , and stat3 and expression of early response gene .
a point mutation change ylpq into ylpa greatly reduce il-9 -induced activation of stat3 and expression of c-myc but do not affect cell proliferation .
these result suggest that cooperation or cross-talk of signal molecule associate with different domain of il-9ralpha other than stat3 be essential for il-9 -mediated cell growth .
activation of pp90rsk and early growth response-1 gene expression by pokeweed mitogen in human b cell .
the present study have examine the effect of pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) on the induction of early growth response-1 gene ( egr-1 ) in normal human b cell .
pwm regulate egr-1 gene expression by both transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanism .
transient transfection assay with egr-1 promoter fragment link to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) gene demonstrate that pwm induced egr-1 transcription be confer by the carg motif ( c c[at]6gg ) in the egr-1 promoter .
the result far demonstrate the activation of s6 kinase ( pp90rsk ) , evidence by phosphorylation of s6 and serum response factor ( srf ) peptide , in pwm treated b cell .
take together , these finding suggest that pwm be able to initiate an intracytoplasmic signalling cascade and egr-1 induction in normal human b cell .
positive and negative regulation of il-2 gene expression : role of multiple regulatory site .
interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) be an important lymphokine require in the process of t cell activation , proliferation , clonal expansion and differentiation .
the il-2 gene display both t cell specific and inducible expression : it be only express in cd4+ t cell after antigenic or mitogenic stimulation .
several cis-acting regulatory site be require for induction of the il-2 gene after stimulation .
in this study , we have analyse the function of these cis-acting regulatory site in the context of the native il-2 enhancer and promoter sequence .
the result of this study suggest that the nfat ( -276 to -261 ) , the distal octamer ( -256 to -248 ) and the proximal octamer ( -75 to -66 ) site not only act a enhancer of il-2 gene transcription in the presence of cellular stimulation , but also have a silencing effect on il-2 gene expression in rest cell .
two other site display disparate effect on il-2 gene expression in different t leukemia cell line : the distal purine box ( -291 to -277 ) and the proximal purine box site ( -145 to -128 ) .
finally , the ap-1 ( -186 to -176 ) and the kappa b site ( -206 to -195 ) respond to different cellular activation in el4 cell .
the ap-1 site mediate the response to pma stimulation while the kappa b site respond to il-1 stimulation .
these data suggest that the regulation of il-2 gene expression be a complex process and multiple cis-acting regulatory site interact to exert different effect in t cell representative of alternative stage of differentiation .
glycation-dependent , reactive oxygen species-mediated suppression of the insulin gene promoter activity in hit cell .
prolonged poor glycemic control in non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus patient often lead to a decline in insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cell , accompany by a decrease in the insulin content of the cell .
a a step toward elucidate the pathophysiological background of the so-called glucose toxicity to pancreatic beta cell , we induce glycation in hit-t15 cell use a sugar with strong deoxidizing activity , d-ribose , and examine the effect on insulin gene transcription .
the result of reporter gene analysis reveal that the insulin gene promoter be more sensitive to glycation than the control beta-actin gene promoter ; approximately 50 and 80 % of the insulin gene promoter activity be lose when the cell be keep for 3 d in the presence of 40 and 60 mm d-ribose , respectively .
in agreement with this , decrease in the insulin mrna and insulin content be observe in the glycation-induced cell .
also , gel mobility shift analysis use specific antiserum reveal decrease in the dna-binding activity of an insulin gene transcription factor , pdx-1/ipf1/stf-1 .
these effect of d-ribose seem almost irreversible but could be prevent by addition of 1 mm aminoguanidine or 10 mm n-acetylcysteine , thus suggest that glycation and reactive oxygen specie , generate through the glycation reaction , serve a mediator of the phenomenon .
these observation suggest that protein glycation in pancreatic beta cell , which occur in vivo under chronic hyperglycemia , suppress insulin gene transcription and thus can explain part of the beta cell glucose toxicity .
rel-deficient t cell exhibit defect in production of interleukin 3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor .
the c-rel protooncogene encode a subunit of the nf-kappa b -like family of transcription factor .
mouse lack rel be defective in mitogenic activation of b and t lymphocyte and display impaired humoral immunity .
in an attempt to identify change in gene expression that accompany the t-cell stimulation defect associate with the loss of rel , we have examine the expression of cell surface activation marker and cytokine production in mitogen-stimulated rel -/- t cell .
the expression of cell surface marker include the interleukin 2 receptor alpha ( il-2r alpha ) chain ( cd25 ) , cd69 and l-selectin ( cd62 ) be normal in mitogen-activated rel -/- t cell , but cytokine production be impaired .
in rel -/- splenic t cell culture stimulate with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and ionomycin , the level of il-3 , il-5 , granulocyte-_macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , and gamma interferon ( ifn-gamma ) be only 2- to 3-fold low compare with normal t cell .
in contrast , anti-cd3 and anti-cd28 stimulated rel -/- t cell , which fail to proliferate , make little or no detectable cytokine .
exogenous il-2 , which restitute the proliferative response of the anti-cd3- and anti-cd28- treated rel-/- t cell , restore production of il-5 , tnf-alpha , and ifn-gamma , but not il-3 and gm-csf expression to approximately normal level .
in contrast to mitogen-activated rel -/- t cell , lipopolysaccharide-stimulated rel -/- macrophage produce high than normal level of gm-csf .
these finding establish that rel can function a an activator or repressor of gene expression and be require by t lymphocyte for production of il-3 and gm-csf .
x chromosome inactivation pattern in normal female .
since one of the two x chromosome be randomly inactivate at an early stage of female embryonic development , x-linked marker have be use to study the origin and development of various neoplastic disorder in affect heterozygous woman ; clonality assay have provide a useful tool to the understanding of the mechanism underlie the development of neoplasia .
recently , a technique of clonal analysis have be devise that take advantage of a highly polymorphic short tandem repeat within the x-linked human androgen receptor ( ar ) gene , result in a heterozygosity rate approach 90 % .
the rapid expansion of the number of woman now suitable for x inactivation analysis have however give rise to new controversy , one of the more troublesome be the possibility of a modification of the pattern of x-_chromosome inactivation pattern in blood cell of elderly woman .
in the present study we analyze with the ar assay a group of 166 healthy female aged between 8 and 94 year , with no history of genetic or neoplastic familial disorder .
we fail to find any correlation between age and x-_chromosome inactivation pattern ( r = 0.17 ) , even subdivide the subject in different age group accord to the criterion use by other researcher , and therefore reaffirm that , when test for with well-standardized and accurate criterion , extremely unbalanced inactivation of the x chromosome be a truly uncommon phenomenon in normal woman .
copyright 1998 academic press .
transcription factor activation and functional stimulation of human monocyte .
activation of expression of gene encode transcription factor : c-fos and c-jun and formation of ap1 transcriptional complex in human monocyte be investigate .
it be find that lipopolysaccharide induce strongly both c-fos and c-jun expression as well a ap1 formation .
interferon gamma activate strongly c-fos and weakly c-jun and ap1 .
tumor necrosis factor induce slightly c-fos and have almost no effect on c-jun and ap1 .
the data suggest that difference in functional response elicit in monocyte by all three factor may be dependent on different route on nuclear signalling employ by the factor .
modulation of endogenous il-1 beta and il-1 receptor antagonist result in opposing effect on hiv expression in chronically infected monocytic cell .
a proportion of hiv -infected individual experience episode of localized or systemic bacterial infection cause by gram-negative bacteria .
many of the clinical side effect of these infection be associate with the production of proinflammatory cytokine , which be induce primarily by lp , a constituent of the bacterial cell wall of gram-negative bacteria .
the present study examine the mechanism involve in lp -mediated induction of hiv expression in u1 cell , a promonocytic cell line chronically infect with hiv .
stimulation of u1 cell by lp alone induce minimal level of hiv expression , which be significantly enhance by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) .
costimulation of u1 cell with lp plus gm-csf result in the accumulation of steady-state level of hiv rna ; however , only a weak induction of hiv long terminal repeat -driven transcription , which be not associate with the activation of the cellular transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b , be note .
costimulation of cell with lp plus gm-csf induce the production of proinflammatory cytokine , il-8 , il-1 beta and il-6 , but not tnf-alpha .
il-1 receptor antagonist ( ra ) inhibit lp enhancement of hiv expression in gm-csf -stimulated cell , suggest that endogenous il-1 be involve in lp -mediated viral production .
in this regard , anti-inflammatory cytokine inhibit lp plus gm-csf -stimulated hiv expression , and this effect closely correlate with inhibition of il-1 beta release and , in particular , with up-regulation of endogenous il-1ra production .
thus , the balance between an endogenously produce viral inducer ( il-1 beta ) and an inhibitor ( il-1ra ) may represent an important pathway lead to modulation of hiv expression from monocytic cell .
expression of c-fos , c-jun and jun b in peripheral blood lymphocyte from young and elderly adult .
the expression of c-fos , c-jun and jun b proto-oncogene be study in phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) activate peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) from young and aged human .
specific mrna for c-fos and c-jun be detectable within 30 min after cell activation and reach maximal level within 2 h .
both c-fos and jun b mrna decrease to pre-activation level within 6 h , while c-jun mrna remain elevated .
in pha -activated pbl , no age-related difference be observe in c-fos or jun b mrna expression .
however , c-jun mrna level decrease significantly ( 1.73 +/- 0.08 vs. 1.16 +/- 0.09 arbitrary unit , p < 0.01 , young vs. old ) in pbl from elderly individual activate with pha .
because previous work have demonstrate that t cell from elderly individual may display normal proliferative response when activate via the anti-cd2 pathway , c-jun and jun b mrna expression be also study in anti-cd2-activated purify t cell .
no age-related difference be find in the expression of either of these two proto-oncogene by anti-cd2 activated t cell .
these result suggest that the decrease il-2 production and proliferative response display by pha -activated pbl from elderly adult may be related to age-related change in c-jun mrna expression and in the ratio of c-fos to c-jun mrna .
a family of serine protease express exclusively in myelo- monocytic cell specifically process the nuclear factor-kappa b subunit p65 in vitro and may impair human immunodeficiency virus replication in these cell .
two group of u937 promonocytic cell be obtain by limit dilution cloning which differ strikingly in their ability to support human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication .
" plus " clone replicate the virus efficiently , whereas " minus " clone do not .
we examine these clone for difference in nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b activity which might account for the observe phenomenon .
stimulation of plus clone liberate the classical p50-p65 complex from cytoplasmic pool , whereas minus clone produce an apparently novel , faster-migrating complex , a judge by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
it be surprising that the faster-migrating complex be compose also of p50 and p65 .
however , the p65 subunit be cooh-terminally truncate , a show by immunoprecipitation .
the truncation result from limited proteolysis of p65 during cellular extraction which release particular lysosomal serine protease , such a elastase , cathepsin g , and proteinase 3 .
these specific protease be coordinately express and be present exclusively in the minus u937 clone , but not in the plus clone , a demonstrate in the case of cathepsin g .
in addition , these protease be detect in certain subclones of thp-1 and hl-60 cell and in primary monocyte , in each case correlate with the truncate from of p65 .
we demonstrate in vitro cleavage of p65 by purify elastase and cathepsin g .
it be possible that particular serine protease may have inhibiting effect on the replication of hiv-1 in myelo- monocytic cell .
the data also demonstrate that special precaution must be take when make extract from myelo- monocytic cell .
dna damaging agent induce expression of fa ligand and subsequent apoptosis in t lymphocyte via the activation of nf-kappa b and ap-1 .
apoptosis induce by dna damage and other stress can proceed via expression of fa ligand ( fasl ) and ligation of it receptor , fa ( cd95 ) .
we report that activation of the two transcription factor nf-kappa b and ap-1 be crucially involve in fasl expression induce by etoposide , teniposide , and uv irradiation .
a nondegradable mutant of i kappa b block both fasl expression and apoptosis induce by dna damage but not fa ligation .
these stimulus also induce the stress-activated kinase pathway ( sapk /jnk ) , which be require for the maximal induction of apoptosis .
a 1.2 kb fasl promoter respond to dna damage , as well a coexpression with p65 rel or fos/jun .
mutation in the relevant nf-kappa b and ap-1 binding site eliminate these response .
thus , activation of nf-kappa b and ap-1 contribute to stress-induced apoptosis via the expression of fasl .
a thiol antioxidant regulate ige isotype switching by inhibit activation of nuclear factor-kappab .
the bind site for nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) be present at the promoter region of the germline cepsilon gene , but there be little information on whether this factor be involve in regulate ige synthesis by human b cell .
accordingly , we study the role of nf-kappab in germline cepsilon transcription by use two human burkitt 's lymphoma b cell line , dnd39 and dg75 .
in both cell line , n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , a potent thiol antioxidant , inhibit the triggering of the nuclear expression of nf-kappab by il-4 and by anti-cd40 monoclonal antibody .
although il-4 activate signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) 6 in addition to nf-kappab , nac treatment or the transfection of decoy oligodeoxynucleotides for nf-kappab or stat6 only partly block il-4 -induced germline cepsilon transcription .
however , these two decoy oligodeoxynucleotides together almost completely abrogate il-4 -induced germline cepsilon transcription .
of note , cd40 -mediated enhancement of il-4 -driven germline cepsilon transcription be markedly decrease by nac or by a decoy oligodeoxynucleotide for nf-kappab .
the effect of nac be also examine on deletional switch recombination underlie the isotype switch to ige .
nac inhibit the generation of smu/sepsilon switch fragment in normal human b cell costimulated with il-4 and anti-cd40 monoclonal antibody .
it also abolish il-4 -induced upregulation of cd40 but promote upregulation of cd23 .
these result suggest that coordination of nf-kappab and stat6 may be require for induction of germline cepsilon transcription by il-4 , and that cd40 -mediated nf-kappab activation may be important in regulate both enhancement of germline cepsilon transcription and class switching to ige .
silencing of human fetal globin expression be impaired in the absence of the adult beta-globin gene activator protein eklf .
globin gene be subject to tissue-specific and developmental stage-specific regulation .
a switch from human fetal ( gamma ) -to adult ( beta ) -globin expression occur within erythroid precursor cell of the adult lineage .
previously we and others show by target gene disruption that the zinc finger gene , erythroid kruppel-like factor ( eklf ) , be require for expression of the beta-globin gene in mouse , presumably through interaction with a high-affinity bind site in the proximal promoter .
to examine the role of eklf in the developmental regulation of the human gamma-globin gene we interbreed eklf heterozygote ( +/- ) with mouse harbor a human beta-globin yeast artificial chromosome transgene .
we find that in the absence of eklf , while human beta-globin expression be dramatically reduce , gamma-globin transcript be elevated approximately 5-fold .
impaired silencing of gamma-globin expression identify eklf a the first transcription factor participate quantitatively in the gamma-globin to beta-globin switch .
our finding be compatible with a competitive model of switching in which eklf mediate an adult stage-specific interaction between the beta-globin gene promoter and the locus control region that exclude the gamma-globin gene .
inhibition of proliferation and apoptosis of human and rat t lymphocyte by curcumin , a curry pigment .
curcumin ( diferuoylmethane ) , the yellow pigment in the rhizome of tumeric ( curcuma longa ) , an ingredient of curry spice , be know to exhibit a variety of pharmacological effect include antitumor , antiinflammatory , and antiinfectious activity .
although it precise mode of action remain elusive , curcumin have be show to suppress the activity of the ap-1 transcription factor in cell stimulate to proliferate .
in this study , we observe that curcumin ( 50 microm ) inhibit proliferation of rat thymocytes stimulate with concanavalin a ( con a ) as well a that of human jurkat lymphoblastoid cell in the logarithmic growth phase .
the pigment also inhibit apoptosis in dexamethasone-treated rat thymocytes and in uv-irradiated jurkat cell a judge by dna ladder formation , cellular morphological change , and flow cytometry analysis .
the inhibition of apoptosis by curcumin in rat thymocytes be accompany by partial suppression of ap-1 activity .
complete suppression of ap-1 activity be observe in con a -treated , proliferate thymocytes .
the capacity of curcumin to inhibit both cell growth and death strongly imply that these two biological process share a common pathway at some point and that curcumin affect a common step , presumably involve a modulation of the ap-1 transcription factor .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 nef protein inhibit nf-kappa b induction in human t cell .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) can establish a persistent and latent infection in cd4+ t lymphocyte ( w.c.greene , n.engl.j. med.324 : 308-317 , 1991 ; s.m.schnittman , m.c.psallidopoulos , h.c. lane , l.thompson , m.baseler , f.massari , c.h.fox , n.p.salzman , and a.s.fauci , science 245 : 305-308 , 1989 ) .
production of hiv-1 from latently infected cell require host cell activation by t-cell mitogen ( t.folks , d.m.powell , m.m.lightfoote , s.benn , m.a. martin , and a.s.fauci , science 231 : 600-602 , 1986 ; d.zagury , j. bernard , r.leonard , r.cheynier , m.feldman , p.s.sarin , and r.c. gallo , science 231 : 850-853 , 1986 ) .
this activation be mediate by the host transcription factor nf-kappa b [ g.nabel and d.baltimore , nature ( london ) 326 : 711-717 , 1987 ] .
we report here that the hiv-1 -encoded nef protein inhibit the induction of nf-kappa b dna-binding activity by t-_cell mitogen .
however , nef do not affect the dna-binding activity of other transcription factor implicate in hiv-1 regulation , include sp-1 , usf , ur , and nf-at .
additionally , nef inhibit the induction of hiv-1- and interleukin 2- directed gene expression , and the effect on hiv-1 transcription depend on an intact nf-kappa b -binding site .
these result indicate that defective recruitment of nf-kappa b may underlie nef 's negative transcriptional effect on the hiv-1 and interleukin 2 promoter .
further evidence suggest that nef inhibit nf-kappa b induction by interfere with a signal derive from the t-cell receptor complex .
dual effect of lp antibody on cellular uptake of lp and lp -induced proinflammatory function .
human phagocyte recognize bacterial lp ( endotoxin ) through membrane cd14 ( mcd14 ) , a proinflammatory lp receptor .
this study test the hypothesis that anti- lps ab neutralize endotoxin by block cellular uptake through mcd14 .
ab-associated change in the uptake and cellular distribution of fitc- lp be assess by flow cytometry and laser scanning confocal microscopy in human cd14-transfected chinese hamster ovary fibroblast ( cho-cd14 cell ) and human peripheral blood monocyte .
lp core- and o-side chain- specific mabs inhibit mcd14 -mediated lp uptake by both cell type in the presence of serum .
o-side chain-specific mab concurrently enhance complement-dependent lp uptake by monocyte through complement receptor-1 ( cr1 ) and uptake by cho-cd14 cell involve another heat-labile serum factor ( s ) and cell-associated recognition molecule ( s ) .
core-specific mab inhibit mcd14 -mediated uptake of homologous and heterologous lp , while produce less concurrent enhancement of non- mcd14 -mediated lp uptake .
the modulation by anti- lps mabs of mcd14 -mediated lp uptake be associate with inhibition of lp -induced nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) translocation and tnf-alpha secretion in cho-cd14 cell and monocyte , respectively , while mab enhancement of non- mcd14 -mediated lp uptake stimulate these activity .
lp -specific ab thus mediate anti-inflammatory and proinflammatory function , respectively , by prevent target cell uptake of lp through mcd14 and augment uptake through cr1 or other cell receptor .
an alternatively splice isoform of the spi-b transcription factor .
spi-b be an ets transcription factor related to the oncoprotein spi-1/pu.1 and highly express in b lymphoid cell .
the ets protein share a conserve ets domain that mediate specific dna binding .
spi-b bind dna sequence contain a core 5'-ggaa-3' and activate transcription through this motif .
up to date , the biological function of spi-b remain unknown .
here , we describe the characterization of an alternatively splice variant of spi-b , name deltaspi-b , which have lose the ets domain .
in b lymphoid cell , deltaspi-b and spi-b mrna be present simultaneously in a ratio of around 10 % .
deltaspi-b product be not able to bind dna and be recover in cytoplasmic cellular extract .
we raise the hypothesis that delta spi-b might affect spi-b function by recruit factor involve in spi-b activity .
antioxidant inhibit monocyte adhesion by suppress nuclear factor-kappa b mobilization and induction of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 in endothelial cell stimulate to generate radical .
cell adhesion to endothelial cell stimulate by tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) be due to induction of surface receptor , such a vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 ) .
the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) specifically inhibit activation of nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) .
since kappa b motif be present in vcam-1 and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) promoter , we use pdtc to study the regulatory mechanism of vcam-1 and icam-1 induction and subsequent monocyte adhesion in tnf-treated human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvecs ) .
pdtc or n-acetylcysteine dose dependently reduce tnf-induced vcam-1 but not icam-1 surface protein ( also in human umbilical arterial endothelial cell ) and mrna expression ( by 70 % at 100 mumol/l pdtc ) in huvecs a assess by flow cytometry and polymerase chain reaction .
gel-shift analysis in huvecs demonstrate that pdtc prevent nf-kappa b mobilization by tnf , suggest that only vcam-1 induction be control by nf-kappa b .
since huvecs release superoxide anion in response to tnf , and h2o2 induce vcam-1 , pdtc may act a a radical scavenger .
although icam-1 induction be unaffected , inhibitor of nadph oxidase ( apocynin ) or cytochrome p-450 ( skf525a ) suppress vcam-1 induction by tnf , reveal that several radical-generating system be involve in it regulation .
pdtc , apocynin , or skf525a decrease adhesion of monocytic u937 cell to tnf-treated huvecs ( by 75 % at 100 mumol/l pdtc ) .
inhibition by anti- vcam-1 monoclonal antibody 1g11 indicate that u937 adhesion be vcam-1 dependent and suppression by antioxidant be due to reduce vcam-1 induction .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
cortisol receptor resistance : the variability of it clinical presentation and response to treatment .
primary ( partial ) cortisol receptor resistance be previously report in a total of 7 patient and 14 asymptomatic family member .
it occurrence be consider to be extremely rare .
in the present study we report on 6 patient ( 2 male and 4 female ) with the syndrome .
the first male patient present with mild hypertension .
hydrochlorothiazide therapy result in life-threatening hypokalemia .
the second male patient have slight hypertension without hypokalemia .
all four female patient present between the age of 20-30 yr with acne , hirsutism , and irregular menstruation .
low dose dexamethasone therapy ( 1-1.5 mg/day ) be of clinical benefit in these patient .
all patient show insufficient suppression of serum cortisol concentration in the overnight 1-mg dexamethasone test .
the diurnal rhythm of acth and cortisol be intact , albeit at an elevated level .
there be a normal increase in acth , cortisol , and gh ( except in one obese patient ) in response to insulin-induced hypoglycemia , while cortisol production be elevated in three patient .
circulate adrenal androgen level be increase in all patient .
glucocorticoid receptor be investigate in a whole cell dexamethasone binding assay in mononuclear leukocyte .
in the first male patient , the number of receptor be very low , while the affinity be low than that in control .
a lowered affinity to dexamethasone be find in one female patient , while a lowered number of receptor be find in three patient .
in the second male patient , no abnormality be find .
a a bioassay for glucocorticoid action we also measure dexamethasone suppressibility of mitogen-stimulated incorporation of [3h]thymidine in mononuclear leukocyte .
in the male patient with normal receptor status , dexamethasone suppressibility of [3h]thymidine incorporation be significantly low than that in healthy control with respect to both maximal suppression and ic50 .
partial cortisol receptor resistance might be less rare than previously think .
in the six patient present , at least three different form can be recognize .
therapy with dexamethasone be successful in female patient with acne and hirsutism , a the secondary increase in the production of adrenal androgen be effectively control .
the dna binding domain of the a-myb transcription factor be responsible for it b cell-specific activity and bind to a b cell 110-kda nuclear protein .
expression study as well a the use of transgenic animal have demonstrate that the a-myb transcription factor play central and specific role in the regulation of mature b cell proliferation and/or differentiation .
furthermore , it be highly express in burkitt 's lymphoma cell and may participate in the pathogenesis of this disease .
we have therefore investigate the transcriptional activity of a-myb and it regulation in several human lymphoid cell line use co-transfection assay and show that a-myb be transcriptionally active in all the b cell line study , but not in t cell .
in particular the best responder cell line be the burkitt 's cell line namalwa .
the activity of a-myb in b and not t cell be observe when either an artificial construct or the c-myc promoter be use a a reporter .
furthermore , the functional domain responsible for dna binding , transactivation , and negative regulation , previously characterize in a fibroblast context , be find to have similar activity in b cell .
the region of a-myb responsible for the b cell specific activity be define to be the n-terminal 218 amino acid contain the dna binding domain .
finally , a 110-kda protein have be identify in the nucleus of all the b , but not t , cell line that specifically bind to this a-myb n-terminal domain .
we hypothesize that this 110-kda protein may be a functionally important b cell-specific co-activator of a-myb .
a concatenated form of epstein-barr viral dna in lymphoblastoid cell line induce by transfection with bzlf1 .
the replicative form of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) dna be study use two lymphoblastoid cell line , x50-7 and 6f11 , which be latently infect by epstein-barr virus .
the lytic cycle of ebv infection be induce by transfection of the cell with the brlf1/bzlf1 coding region of the p3hr-1 defective genome .
we combine two technique to identify the productive replicative form of epstein-barr viral dna in the lytic cycle-induced cell .
restriction enzyme analysis follow by southern blot hybridization identify a significant increase in the fuse fragment encompass both end of ebv dna .
this indicate an increase in either episomal dna or concatameric linear dna .
southern blot analysis of in situ lysing gel reveal that the cellular content of linear ebv dna be also increase significantly after the initiation of the viral lytic cycle , while the amount of circular dna remain approximately constant .
we propose from these result that the source of the fuse fragment encompass both end of ebv dna be a concatenate linear ebv dna molecule , and that such a concatenate molecule most likely represent a replicative form of ebv dna in productively infected cell .
evidence for lowered induction of nuclear factor kappa b in activate human t lymphocyte during aging .
transcription factor nf kappa b ( nuclear factor kappa b ) be induce in t lymphocyte from young individual follow activation with a variety of stimulus include anti-cd3 , phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
in contrast , activate t lymphocyte from old individual show a significant reduction in the induction of nf kappa b in response to the same stimulus .
the age-related decline in induction of nf kappa b could not be attribute to alteration in the composition of subunit , p50 and p65 be find to be the predominant subunit of induce nf kappa b in t cell from young as well a elderly donor .
furthermore , similar level of nf kappa b be find in the cytosol of unactivated t cell from both young and elderly donor suggest that precursor level of nf kappa b remain unaltered during aging .
these result suggest that an age-associated decline in the induction of nf kappa b in activate t cell from elderly individual may be attributable to altered regulation of the inhibitor , i kappa b , and may play an important role in immune dysregulation accompany aging .
signal transduction by dr3 , a death domain -containing receptor related to tnfr-1 and cd95 .
tumor necrosis factor receptor-1 ( tnfr-1 ) and cd95 ( also call fa or apo-1 ) be cytokine receptor that engage the apoptosis pathway through a region of intracellular homology , designate the " death domain . " another death domain -containing member of the tnfr family , death receptor 3 ( dr3 ) , be identify and be show to induce both apoptosis and activation of nuclear factor kappab .
expression of dr3 appear to be restricted to tissue enrich in lymphocyte .
dr3 signal transduction be mediate by a complex of intracellular signal molecule include tradd , traf2 , fadd , and flice .
thus , dr3 likely play a role in regulate lymphocyte homeostasis .
the rhombotin family of cysteine -rich lim-domain oncogene : distinct member be involve in t-cell translocation to human chromosome 11p15 and 11p13 .
a chromosomal translocation in a t-cell leukemia involve the short arm of human chromosome 11 at band 11p15 disrupt the rhombotin gene .
this gene encode a protein with duplicated cysteine -rich region call lim domain , which show homology to zinc-binding protein and to iron-sulfur center of ferredoxins .
two homologues of the rhombotin gene have now be isolate .
one of these , designate rhom-2 , be located on human chromosome 11 at band 11p13 , where a cluster of t-cell leukemia-specific translocation occur ; all translocation breakpoints at 11p13 be upstream of the rhom-2 gene .
human and mouse rhom-2 be highly conserve and , like rhombotin , encode two tandem cysteine -rich lim domain .
rhom-2 mrna be express in early mouse development in central nervous system , lung , kidney , liver , and spleen but only very low level occur in thymus .
the other gene , designate rhom-3 , be not on chromosome 11 but also retain homology to the lim domain of rhombotin .
since the rhom-2 gene be such a common site of chromosomal damage in t-cell tumor , the consistency of translocation near the rhombotin gene be far examine .
a second translocation adjacent to rhombotin be find and at the same position a in the previous example .
therefore , chromosome band 11p15 ( rhombotin ) and 11p13 ( rhom-2 ) be consistent site of chromosome translocation in t-cell leukemia , with the 11p15 target more rarely involve .
the result define the rhombotin gene family a a class of t-cell oncogene with duplicated cysteine -rich lim domain .
androgen binding site in peripheral human mononuclear leukocyte of healthy male and female .
androgen binding site have be identify in circulate human mononuclear leukocyte of healthy donor of both sex .
cell be separate from blood sample on a ficoll gradient and incubate with different concentration of [3h]testosterone in the presence or absence of a 400-fold excess of unlabelled testosterone .
binding data be derive from scatchard analysis .
the bind site fulfil the required criterion for specific steroid binding site however differ somewhat from the classic androgen receptor from genital skin fibroblast : in fertile adult male ( n = 20 ) the bind site show ( 1 ) a high affinity for testosterone ( 1.32 +/- 0.49 nm ; mean +/- sd ) , ( 2 ) a saturable capacity ( 184 +/- 52 bind site per cell ; mean +/- sd ) , and ( 3 ) a characteristic competitive binding profile for other steroid hormone ( relative binding affinity : testosterone = dihydrotestosterone > 17 beta-estradiol > progesterone , whereas aldosterone , 17-hydroxy-progesterone and cortisol do not compete appreciably ) .
furthermore the number of bind site determine use [3h]dihydrotestosterone , [3h]ru-1881 , or [3h] testosterone be comparable .
this raise the possibility that androgen receptor in peripheral mononuclear leukocyte differ from those in genital skin fibroblast .
there be no apparent correlation between serum testosterone concentration and androgen binding site .
in fertile woman remarkable change in androgen binding site be see in the course of the menstrual cycle , with a significant increase in the immediate preovulatory period .
the presence of androgen receptor in peripheral mononuclear leukocyte provide for the first time the experimental basis for an hypothesis of direct , receptor-mediated effect of androgen on mature immunocompetent cell .
the immunological implication of these result be discuss .
cell cycle-dependent initiation and lineage-dependent abrogation of gata-1 expression in pure differentiate hematopoietic progenitor .
the program activation/repression of transcription factor in early hematopoietic differentiation have not yet be explore .
the dna-binding protein gata-1 be require for normal erythroid development and regulate erythroid-expressed gene in mature erythroblast .
we analyze gata-1 expression in early human adult hematopoiesis by use an in vitro system in which " pure " early hematopoietic progenitor be induce to gradual and synchronize differentiation selectively along the erythroid or granulocyte-macrophage pathway by differential treatment with hematopoietic growth factor .
the gata-1 gene , though virtually silent in quiescent progenitor , be activate after entrance into the cell cycle upon stimulation with hematopoietic growth factor .
subsequently , increase expression along the erythroid pathway contrast with an abrupt downregulation in the granulocyte-macrophage lineage .
these result suggest a microenvironment-directed , two-step model for gata-1 expression in differentiate hematopoietic progenitor that involve ( i ) cycle-dependent initiation and ( ii ) lineage-dependent maintenance or suppression .
hypothetically , on/off switch of lineage-restricted transactivators may underlie the binary fate decision of hematopoietic progenitor .
nonpituitary human prolactin gene transcription be independent of pit-1 and differentially control in lymphocyte and in endometrial stroma .
expression of the human prl ( hprl ) gene in extrapituitary site such a the uterus ( decidualized endometrial stroma and myometrium ) and cell of the hematopoietic lineage be direct by an alternative promoter which be located approximately 6 kilobases ( kb ) upstream of the pituitary-specific start site .
in order to delineate the tissue-specific mechanism govern the control of nonpituitary prl gene expression , we have clone and sequence 3 kb 5'-flanking dna of the upstream decidual/lymphoid ( dprl ) promoter .
base on sequence homology we identify two bind motif for pit-1 and seven half-sites for glucocorticoid receptor/progesterone receptor ( pr ) binding .
we focus our study on the role of pit-1 and of pr a potential transcriptional regulator , since the pou domain protein pit-1 be essential in the control of pituitary prl expression , and progesterone induce decidual transformation of the endometrial stroma , a differentiation process during which the decidual prl gene be activate .
we demonstrate in a variety of cell type , include lymphocyte and endometrial stroma , that pit-1 be not involve in the regulation of dprl promoter/reporter gene construct carry 3 kb 5'-flanking dna .
our experiment also show that activate pr do not confer direct transcriptional control on the dprl promoter .
when we compare the activity of the transfected dprl promoter in prl- secreting and nonsecreting lymphoid cell , we find that the 3 kb 5'-flanking region of the dprl promoter do not contain element restrict expression to only those lymphocyte that produce prl but allow expression of fusion reporter gene irrespective of the status of the endogenous prl gene .
this be in sharp contrast to endometrial cell where 3 kb 5'-flanking dna confer strong transcriptional activation on the dprl promoter in decidualized endometrial stromal cell actively secrete prl , but do not allow transcription in undifferentiated non-prl-secreting endometrial stromal cell .
activation of the dprl promoter construct in these undifferentiated cell could however be induce by the addition of camp , in the absence of progesterone , suggest that a signal transduce through the camp signaling pathway be a primary inducer of decidual prl gene expression .
suppression of nuclear factor kappa b and cd18 -mediated leukocyte adhesion to the corneal endothelium by dexamethasone .
purpose : to demonstrate that leukocyte adhesion to culture corneal endothelial cell be mediate by the cd18 antigen , and to determine whether dexamethasone directly suppress adhesion by inhibit activation of nuclear factor kappa b ( nfkappab ) .
method : culture bovine corneal endothelium be stimulate for 6 hour by 40 micron/ml tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnfalpha ) .
dexamethasone be add 1 hour before tnfalpha stimulation in the dexamethasone group .
after stimulation , neutrophil separate from a healthy human volunteer be add with or without anti- cd18 antibody .
the culture plate be settle for 15 minute at 37 degree c , and then neutrophil be activate by n-formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine for 5 minute .
nonadherent neutrophil be remove by seal and invert the culture well .
the intracellular localization of nfkappab after tnfalpha simulation be determine by confocal immunocytochemistry use an anti-p65 antibody .
result : neutrophil adhesion to culture corneal endothelial cell increase significantly on exposure to tnfalpha ( 451.4+/-45.4 cells/mm2 , n = 16 ) compare to control ( 156.7+/-27.3 cells/mm2 , n = 16 , p < 0.01 ) .
this increase adhesion be suppress by the addition of anti- cd18 antibody ( 157.6+/-25.1 cells/mm2 , n = 8 , p < 0.01 ) and by pretreatment with 10(-7) m dexamethasone ( 207.9+/-31.5 cells/mm2 , n = 10 , p < 0.01 ) .
immunocytochemistry 60 minute after stimulation reveal that nfkappab be located in the cytoplasm in unstimulated cell ; however , the addition of tnfalpha cause nfkappab to translocate into the nucleus .
pretreatment with dexamethasone taper nfkappab translocation into the nucleus .
conclusion : leukocyte adhesion to the corneal endothelium be show to be mediate by cd18 express on activate leukocyte .
pretreatment of the endothelium with dexamethasone inhibit leukocyte adhesion ; this may be due in part to the suppression of nfkappab entry into the nucleus .
evidence for normal vitamin d receptor messenger ribonucleic acid and genotype in absorptive hypercalciuria .
absorptive hypercalciuria ( a stone-forming condition ) be characterize by gut hyperabsorption of calcium , hypercalciuria , and reduce bone density .
inasmuch a these feature implicate enhance calcitriol action in gut and bone , we analyze the vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) gene to ascertain whether an abnormality of this gene mark patient with intestinal hyperabsorption of calcium .
we have compare the frequency of a restriction fragment length polymorphism ( bsm i ) associate with different allele of the vdr gene in a group of 33 well characterize absorptive hypercalciuric patient and a group of 36 normal race- and age-matched control subject .
there be no difference between the distribution of the vdr allele in the patient population when compare with the normal population .
the cod region of vdr messenger rna be also normal , a determine by both dna sequence analysis and chemical mismatch cleavage analysis of copy dna from 11 index absorptive hypercalciuric patient .
on the basis of these result , we propose that the enhance intestinal calcium absorption invariably see in absorptive hypercalciuria and attendant symptom of this disorder be not attributable to mutation of the vdr and be not link to a common vdr genotype .
glucocorticoid -resistance in peripheral-blood lymphocyte do not correlate with number of affinity of glucocorticoid-receptors in chronic renal failure patient .
glucocorticoid ( gc ) resistance in patient with chronic renal failure ( crf ) seriously impair successive gc therapy after renal transplantation .
we examine the relationship between gc -receptor ( gc-r ) parameter in peripheral-blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) and pbmc resistance to gc in 21 crf patient and 18 healthy subject .
each subject group be divide into two subgroup accord to pbmc sensitivity to prednisolone in a mitogen assay procedure ; i.e. , sensitive ( ic50 < 381 ng/ml ) and resistant ( ic50 > 381 ng/ml ) group .
in healthy subject , the mean gc-r bmax and kd in quiescent pbmc of the gc -sensitive group be 2.89 +/- 1.23 fmol/10(6) cell and 4.00 +/- 2.24 nm , respectively .
the bmax in these subject significantly increase to 6.61 +/- 2.02 ( 257.7 +/- 107.8 % ) after 24 h stimulation with concanavalin a ( p < 0.01 ) , while the kd change be not significant .
the gc-r bmax and kd in quiescent pbmc of the gc -resistant group be 5.33 +/- 1.37 fmol/10(6) cell and 3.20 +/- 1.39 nm , respectively .
both of these parameter , however , do not change significantly after mitogen stimulation .
there be a significant negative correlation between ic50s of prednisolone and increase-ratios ( post/pre ratio ) of bmax after mitogen stimulation ( p < 0.05 ) .
in crf patient , bmax and kd in quiescent pbmc of the gc -sensitive group be 6.04 +/- 2.35 fmol/10(6) cell and 3.49 +/- 1.72 nm , respectively , while those in pbmc of the gc -resistant group be 5.13 +/- 2.31 fmol/10(6) cell and 4.04 +/- 1.62 nm , respectively .
the bmax and kd be not significantly change after mitogen stimulation in both subgroup of crf .
moreover , in contrast to healthy subject , there be no correlation between ic50 and gc-r parameter in crf .
we conclude that , in healthy subject , decrease pbmc capacity to amplify gc-r number in response to mitogen be correlate with gc resistance , whereas in crf patient the resistant mechanism be not correlate with gc-r parameter .
an unknown event might be involve in gc -resistance of crf .
activation domain requirement for disruption of epstein-barr virus latency by zebra .
latent infection of b lymphocyte by epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) can be disrupt by expression of the ebv zebra protein .
zebra , a transcriptional activator , initiate the ebv lytic cascade by activate viral gene expression .
zebra be also indispensable for viral replication and bind directly to the ebv lytic origin of replication .
the study describe herein demonstrate that the activation domain .
zebra activation can be replace by a heterologous acidic , proline-rich , or glutamine-rich activation domain .
zebra activation domain swap construct retain zebra 's native ability to activate specific ebv promoter , to disrupt ebv latency , and to stimulate replication at the ebv lytic origin .
additional work , employ sequential and internal deletion of zebra 's n-terminal activation domain , indicate that it separate activity be not attributable to specific subdomains but be spread throughout it n terminus and therefore can not be inactivate by delete localized region .
the human tcf-1 gene encode a nuclear dna-binding protein uniquely express in normal and neoplastic t-lineage lymphocyte .
the tcf-1 gene encode a putative transcription factor with affinity for a sequence motif occur in a number of t-cell enhancer .
tcf-1 mrna be originally find to be express in a t cell-specific fashion within a set of human and mouse cell line .
in contrast , expression reportedly occur in multiple nonlymphoid tissue during murine embryogenesis .
we have now raise a monoclonal antibody to document expression and biochemistry of the human tcf-1 protein .
a expect , the tcf-1 protein be detectable only in cell line of t lineage .
it expression be always restricted to the nucleus .
immunohistochemistry on a panel of human tissue reveal that the tcf-1 protein be find exclusively in thymocytes and in cd3+ t cell in peripheral lymphoid tissue .
western blotting yield a set of band range from 25 kd to 55 kd , result from extensive alternative splicing .
the tcf-1 protein be detectable in all sample of a set of 22 t-cell malignancy of various stage of maturation , but be absent from a large number of other hematologic neoplasm .
these observation imply a t cell-specific function for tcf-1 , a notion corroborate by recent observation on tcf-1 knock-out mouse .
in addition , these result indicate that nuclear tcf-1 expression can serve a a pan-t-lineage marker in the diagnosis of lymphoid malignancy .
cell-type-specific regulation of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene in b cell and t cell by nfatp and atf-2/jun .
the human tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) gene be one of the early gene transcribe after the stimulation of a b cell through it antigen receptor or via the cd-40 pathway .
in both case , induction of tnf-alpha gene transcription can be block by the immunosuppressant cyclosporin a and fk506 , which suggest a role for the nfat family of protein in the regulation of the gene in b cell .
furthermore , in t cell , two molecule of nfatp bind to the tnf-alpha promoter element kappa 3 in association with atf-2 and jun protein bind to an immediately adjacent cyclic amp response element ( cre ) site .
here , use the murine b-cell lymphoma cell line a20 , we show that the tnf-alpha gene be regulate in a cell-type-specific manner .
in a20 b cell , the tnf-alpha gene be not regulate by nfatp bind to the kappa 3 element .
instead , atf-2 and jun protein bind to the composite kappa 3/cre site and nfatp bind to a newly identify second nfat site centered at -76 nucleotide relative to the tnf-alpha transcription start site .
this new site play a critical role in the calcium-mediated , cyclosporin a -sensitive induction of tnf-alpha in both a20 b cell and ar-5 cell .
consistent with these result , quantitative dnase footprinting of the tnf-alpha promoter use increase amount of recombinant nfatp demonstrate that the -76 site bind to nfatp with a high affinity than the kappa 3 site .
two other previously unrecognized nfatp -binding site in the proximal tnf-alpha promoter be also identify by this analysis .
thus , through the differential use of the same promoter element , the composite kappa 3/cre site , the tnf-alpha gene be regulate in a cell-type-specific manner in response to the same extracellular signal .
activation of the transcription factor nf-kappab in lipopolysaccharide -stimulated u937 cell .
during the course of serious bacterial infection , lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) interact with monocyte/macrophage receptor , result in the generation of inflammatory cytokine .
transcription factor nf-kappab be crucial in activate the transcription of gene encode proinflammatory cytokine .
in this paper , we demonstrate that the activation of nf-kappab by lp in a promonocytic cell line ( u937 ) follow a rather slow kinetics , depend on the rate of ikappab-alpha inhibitor hydrolysis .
no degradation of p105 and p100 inhibitor be observe under these condition .
the transduction pathway lead to nf-kappab activation in u937 cell involve the intracellular generation of reactive oxygen specie ( ro ) , a demonstrate by the concomitant inhibitory effect of antioxidant on nf-kappab activation and the emission of a fluorescent probe react intracellularly with hydrogen peroxide .
this ro pathway be also characterize by the use of other inhibitor .
this finding indicate that phospholipase a2 and 5-lipoxygenase be also involve .
however , the nf-kappab activation pathway involve the acidic sphingomyelinase of the endolysosomial membrane do not seem to participate in the lp -induced nf-kappab activation in u937 cell .
description and functional implication of a novel mutation in the sex-determining gene sry .
the sex-determining gene sry be screen for molecular alteration in an xy sex-reversed female by single-strand conformation polymorphism ( sscp ) technique .
an a-to-g transition be detect which lead to an exchange of a tyrosine by a cysteine in the sry protein .
the affect tyrosine residue located at the c terminus of the dna binding protein be evolutionarily strongly conserve among the member of the hmg box contain protein .
use gel shift assay and peptide synthesis such a mutation be show to abolish the sry protein dna binding ability .
the involvement of this particular amino acid in the binding specificity be also discuss .
regulation of il-6 synthesis in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell by c3a and c3a ( desarg ) .
the anaphylatoxin c3a have be report to have immunomodulatory effect on a number of different cell type .
in this study we investigate the effect of c3a and c3a ( desarg ) on gene expression and protein secretion of il-6 in human pbmcs , either alone or in combination with lp or il-1beta .
c3a or c3a ( desarg ) alone exhibit no effect on the expression or secretion of il-6 .
however , when pbmc be stimulate with lp or il-1beta , both c3a and c3a ( desarg ) be find to enhance il-6 release by pbmc in a dose-dependent manner .
since c3a have be show to induce pge2 production by monocyte , and pge2 have be show to influence cytokine production , we investigate the potential role of pge2 in c3a -mediated enhancement of lps- and il-1beta- induced il-6 production .
indomethacin block pge2 release , but have no influence on the observe effect of c3a , suggest that the effect of c3a on il-6 production be independent of pge2 formation by monocyte .
northern blot analysis show that c3a as well a c3a ( desarg ) enhance lp -induced mrna level for il-6 .
pretreatment of pbmcs with pertussis toxin block the function of c3a and c3a ( desarg ) , indicate that the action of these two molecule be mediate by a g protein -coupled pathway .
furthermore , we investigate the effect of c3a and c3a ( desarg ) on induction of nf-kappab and activate protein-1 binding .
both molecule enhance lp -induced nf-kappab and activating protein-1 binding activity .
these result demonstrate the capacity of intact c3a and it circulate des-arg form to exert immunmodulatory effect in vitro .
transcription factor binding site downstream of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 transcription start site be important for virus infectivity .
when transcriptionally active , the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) promoter contain a nucleosome-free region encompass both the promoter /enhancer region and a large region ( 255 nucleotide [ nt ] ) downstream of the transcription start site .
we have previously identify new bind site for transcription factor downstream of the transcription start site ( nt 465 to 720 ) : three ap-1 site ( i , ii , and iii ) , an ap3-like motif ( ap3-l ) , a downstream binding factor ( dbf ) site , and juxtapose sp1 site .
here , we show that the dbf site be an interferon-responsive factor ( irf ) binding site and that the ap3-l motif bind the t-cell-specific factor nf-at .
mutation that abolish the binding of each factor to it cognate site be introduce in an infectious hiv-1 molecular clone to study their effect on hiv-1 transcription and replication .
individual mutation of the dbf or ap3-l site as well a the double mutation ap-1(iii)/ ap3-l do not affect hiv-1 replication compare to that of the wild-type virus .
in contrast , provirus carry mutation in the sp1 site be totally defective in term of replication .
virus production occur with slightly delay kinetics for virus contain combined mutation in the ap-1(iii) , ap3-l , and dbf site and in the ap3-l and dbf-sites , whereas virus mutate in the ap-1(i,ii,iii) and ap3-l site and in the ap-1(i,ii,iii) , ap3-l , and dbf site exhibit a severely defective replicative phenotype .
no rna-packaging defect could be measure for any of the mutant virus a determine by quantification of their hiv genomic rna .
measurement of the transcriptional activity of the hiv-1 promoter after transient transfection of the hiv-1 provirus dna or of long terminal repeat-luciferase construct show a positive correlation between the transcriptional and the replication defect for most mutant .
inhibition of nf-at signal transduction event by a dominant-negative form of calcineurin .
an inhibitory , " dominant-negative , " form of the calcineurin catalytic ( a ) subunit be prepare , which lack the calmodulin -binding domain , autoinhibitory domain and most of it catalytic core but possess the regulatory ( b ) subunit binding domain .
when test for it ability to block calcineurin -dependent signaling in jurkat cell , expression of this " b-subunit knock-out " ( bko ) construct suppress reporter gene activity drive by nf-at , the pivotal promoter element for interleukin ( il ) -2 gene induction .
immunoprecipitation of epitope-labeled bko demonstrate for the formation of a tight complex with endogenous b subunit in jurkat cell , consistent with an inhibitory mechanism that involve the sequestration of the b subunit .
furthermore , the sharply reduce nf-at activity produce by co-transfecting bko could be " rescue " by overexpression of transfected b subunit , suggest that depletion of this subunit be responsible for the inhibition .
these data suggest the potential utility of agent that disrupt calcineurin -mediated signal transduction pathway by block formation of the catalytically active dimer of calcineurin a and b subunit .
dependence for the proliferative response to erythropoietin on an established erythroid differentiation program in a human hematopoietic cell line , ut-7 .
erythroid differentiation involve the activation of a number of erythroid-specific gene , most of which , include the globin gene and the erythropoietin receptor ( epo-r ) gene , be , at least in part , regulate by the transcription factor gata-1 .
in order to understand the relationship , if any , between expression of gata-1 , response to epo and erythroid differentiation , we analyze the expression of gata-1 , epo-r and globin gene in an epo-dependent human cell line , ut-7 epo .
the result be compare to those obtain with the parental granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) -dependent cell line , ut-7 , which have a predominantly megakaryoblastic phenotype and be unable to proliferate continuously in the presence of epo .
ut-7 epo and ut-7 express similar level of gata-1 mrna and binding activity .
the two line also express comparable level of epo-r mrna while the number of epo -binding site on ut-7 epo cell be one-sixth the number of ut-7 cell ( 2400 +/- 3 vs. 13 , 800 +/- 300 ) .
this difference in the number of bind site could be due to difference in cell surface ( ut-7 cell be 20 % small than the parental ut-7 cell ) or in receptor turnover .
by northern analysis , ut-7 cell express detectable level of beta- and gamma-globin but not alpha-globin .
in comparison , ut-7 epo cell express alpha-globin and high level of gamma-globin ( 5-fold ) and beta-globin ( from barely to clearly detectable ) .
globin chain ( alpha , beta and gamma ) be clearly detectable by affinity chromatography in ut-7 epo but not in ut-7 cell .
the frequency of the cell which express beta- and gamma- globin gene in the two cell population be measure by immunofluorescence with beta- and gamma- specific antibody .
the number of gamma-positive cell and their fluorescence intensity be high in ut-7 epo than in ut-7 cell ( 0 to 17 % barely positive cell and 23 to 40 % clearly positive cell , respectively ) , indicate that the increase in globin mrna observe in ut-7 epo be due to both an increase of gene expression per cell and an increase in number of cell contain gamma-globin .
the level of gata-1 , epo-r and globin mrna express be not affect by a 24-hour incubation of either cell line with epo , gm-csf or interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) .
( abstract truncate at 400 word )
transcriptional down-regulation of c-myc expression by protein synthesis -dependent and -independent pathway in a human t lymphoblastic tumor cell line .
we show that in the human t lymphoblastic tumor cell line molt4 c-myc mrna and protein expression be down-regulated after exposure to dimethyl sulfoxide , to phorbol myristate acetate , or to the calcium ionophore a23187 , which raise the intracellular calcium concentration .
a block to rna elongation be largely responsible for decrease c-myc transcription .
although negative regulation by dimethyl sulfoxide take place even when protein synthesis be inhibit by cycloheximide , the phorbol myristate acetate effect be block to some extent only by cycloheximide .
the calcium ionophore-induced c-myc suppression , however , strictly require de novo protein synthesis .
therefore , two different negative regulatory pathway be involve in c-myc regulation : one which be independent and one which depend on de novo protein synthesis .
the latter one appear to be mediate by a rapidly calcium -dependent induce gene product .
fa ligation induce apoptosis and jun kinase activation independently of cd45 and lck in human t cell .
stimulation through the fas/apo-1 receptor result in apoptosis through an incompletely characterize signaling pathway .
more be know regard signal transduction event that occur after ligation of the t-cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) .
it have be show that tcr stimulation require both the membrane tyrosine phosphatase , cd45 , and the src-family kinase , lck , to result in cellular activation .
although prior study suggest a role for protein tyrosine kinase and phosphatase in fa signaling , we report here that fa ligation induce apoptosis in t cell deficient in either cd45 or lck .
far , in normal and cd45- or lck- deficient cell line , fa stimulation result in activation of jun kinase ( jnk ) , a proposed mediator of stress activation pathway .
previous study have also demonstrate a role for endogenous ceramide release in fas-mediated apoptosis .
we show that stimulation with a synthetic ceramide analog result in jnk activation as well a apoptosis , suggest ceramide release occur proximal to jnk activation in fa signaling .
our data suggest that although cd45 and lck be not require for fa signaling , jnk activation may play an important role transduce distal signal that lead to apoptosis after fa ligation .
a germline taqi restriction fragment length polymorphism in the progesterone receptor gene in ovarian carcinoma [ see comment ]
clinical outcome in ovarian carcinoma be predict by progesterone receptor status , indicate an endocrine aspect to this disease .
peripheral leucocyte genomic dna be obtain from 41 patient with primary ovarian carcinoma and 83 control from ireland , as well a from 26 primary ovarian carcinoma patient and 101 control in germany .
southern analysis use a human progesterone receptor ( hpr ) cdna probe identify a germline taqi restriction fragment length polymorphism ( rflp ) define by two allele : t1 , represent by a 2.7 kb fragment ; and t2 , represent by a 1.9 kb fragment and characterise by an additional taqi restriction site with respect to t1 .
an over-representation of t2 in ovarian cancer patient compare with control in the pooled irish/german population ( p < 0.025 ) be observe .
a difference ( p < 0.02 ) in the distribution of the rflp genotype between irish and german control population be also observe .
the allele distribution could not be show to differ significantly from hardy-weinberg distribution in any subgroup .
use hpr cdna region-specific probe , the extra taqi restriction site be map to intron g of the hpr gene .
sequence analysis and expression in culture lymphocyte of the human fosb gene ( g0s3 ) .
g0s3 be a member of a set of putative g0/g1 switch regulatory gene ( g0s gene ) select by screen cdna library prepare from human blood mononuclear cell culture for 2 hr with lectin and cycloheximide .
the sequence show high homology with the murine fosb gene , which encode a component of the ap1 transcriptional regulator .
comparison of cdna and genomic sequence reveal a 4-exon structure characteristic of the fo family of gene .
freshly isolate cell show high level of fosb/g0s3 and fos/g0s7 mrna , which decline rapidly during incubation in culture medium .
the kinetics of expression suggest that the high initial level be cause by the isolation procedure , and do not reflect constitutive expression .
in cell preincubated for a day , level of fo mrna reach a maximum 20 min after the addition of lectin and decline to control level over the next 3 hr .
level of fosb mrna reach a maximum 40 min after the addition of lectin and decline to control level over the next 6 hr .
in freshly isolate cell , both fo and fosb mrna increase dramatically in response to the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide .
in preincubated cell , the cycloheximide response be decrease , especially in the case of fosb .
these difference in expression of fo and fosb suggest different role and regulation .
region of low base order-dependent stem-loop potential in the region of the gene be define .
these indicate where base order have be adapt for purpose other than stem-loop stability ( e.g. , encode protein or gene regulation ) .
region of low potential in a 68.5-kb genomic segment contain the fosb gene suggest that the potential may help locate gene in uncharted dna sequence .
cytomegalovirus immediate early gene upregulate interleukin-6 gene expression .
background : the immediate early gene ( ie ) of human cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) can be express in monocytic cell and be know to regulate viral and cellular gene .
interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) play a central role in numerous inflammatory and immune process .
interleukin-6 level be increase in lung transplant patient clinically diagnose with cmv pneumonitis .
the regulation of il-6 be dependent on various stimulus that include lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , virus , and other cytokine .
these study examine the ability of cmv ie gene product to modulate il-6 production .
method : thp-1 cell , a monocytic cell line , be transfected with the cmv ie gene .
interleukin-6 protein and il-6 mrna be measure in control and cmv immediate early transfected cell .
cotransfection of cmv ie gene and il-6 chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) or il-6 luciferase construct be use to study il-6 promoter activity .
result : interleukin-6 protein and mrna production be significantly increase in cell transfected with the cmv ie gene and stimulate with lp compare to lp -stimulated control cell .
cytomegalovirus ie gene product significantly enhance lp stimulation of il-6 promoter activity in both il-6 cat and il-6 luciferase assay .
a deletion construct that contain a nf-kappa b site but be miss the multiple response region demonstrate a continued increase in il-6 luciferase activity in lp -stimulated cmv transfected cell .
conclusion : cytomegalovirus immediate early gene product significantly enhance expression of il-6 in lp -stimulated cell .
the increase in il-6 luciferase activity occur in the absence of the multiple response region , the area of the il-6 promoter responsive to il-1 , tnf alpha , cyclic amp , and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate .
the ability of cmv ie gene product to enhance il-6 production may play an important role in immune inflammatory state associate with cmv infection .
lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor binding during depression and after clinical recovery .
lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor binding parameter be study in 15 severely depressed patient during depression and after clinical recovery , and in 15 healthy control .
there be no difference in glucocorticoid receptor number or affinity between depressed patient and recovered or control subject .
afternoon acth and cortisol concentration do not differ significantly between the three group .
no relationship could be establish between glucocorticoid receptor binding and antidepressant medication .
these data support the view of an impaired ligand-induced plasticity of glucocorticoid receptor regulation rather than the hypothesis of decrease glucocorticoid receptor number during depression .
molecular and cellular analysis of human immunodeficiency virus -induced apoptosis in lymphoblastoid t-cell-line-expressing wild-type and mutate cd4 receptor .
we have previously show that the presence of the cd4 cytoplasmic tail be critical for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -induced apoptosis ( j.corbeil , m.tremblay , and d.d.richman , j.exp.med.183 : 39-48 , 1996 ) .
we have pursue our investigation of the role of the cd4 transduction pathway in hiv-induced apoptosis .
to do this , wild-type and mutant form of the cd4 cytoplasmic tail be stably express in the lymphoblastoid t-cell line a2.01 .
apoptosis be prevent when cd4 truncate at residue 402 be express ; however , cell express mutate receptor that do not associate with p56(lck) ( mutate at the dicysteine motif and truncate at residue 418 ) but which conserve proximal domain of the cytoplasmic tail undergo apoptosis like wild-_type cd4 .
the difference between wild-type and mutate receptor in the induction of apoptosis be not related to level of p56(lck) or nf-_kappab activation .
initial signaling through the cd4 receptor play a major role in the sensitization of hiv-infected t cell to undergo apoptosis .
incubation of hiv-infected cell with monoclonal antibody ( mab ) 13b8-2 , which bind to cd4 in a region critical for dimerization of the receptor , prevent apoptosis without inhibit hiv replication .
moreover , the apoptotic process be not related to fa -fas ligand interaction ; however , an antagonistic anti-fas mab ( zb-4 ) enhance apoptosis in hiv-infected cell without induce apoptosis in uninfected cell .
these observation demonstrate that cd4 signaling mediate hiv-induced apoptosis by a mechanism independent of fa -fas ligand interaction , do not require p56(lck) signaling , and may involve a critical region for cd4 dimerization .
triptolide induce apoptotic death of t lymphocyte .
extract of tripterygium wilfordii hook . f ( twhf ) have immunosuppressive activity and have be use a anti-inflammatory agent in traditional chinese medicine for century .
recent study have demonstrate that triptolide be the major active component in the extract that inhibit antigen or mitogen -induced t cell proliferation .
in attempt to investigate it effect on activation of t lymphocyte , we find triptolide induce apoptotic death of t cell hybridoma and peripheral t cell but not that of thymocytes .
the triptolide -induced apoptosis be accompany by increase of devd-cleavable caspase activity and degradation of caspase substrate poly ( adp-ribose ) polymerase ( parp ) .
a specific inhibitor of caspase , zvad-fmk , prevent triptolide -induced parp degradation and dna fragmentation but not growth arrest .
furthermore , enforce expression of bcl-2 inhibit triptolide -induced degradation of parp and apoptosis .
these result indicate that triptolide induce t cell apoptosis through activate caspase , and suggest the growth arrest and apoptotic effect of triptolide may contribute to the immunosuppressive activity of twhf extract
a nuclear factor nf-gm2 that interact with a regulatory region of the gm-csf gene essential for it induction in response to t-cell activation : purification from human t-cell leukemia line jurkat cell and similarity to nf-kappa b .
activation of t cell by antigen , lectin , or a combination of phorbol-12-myristate acetate ( pma ) and calcium ionophore ( a23187 ) lead to the induction of gene for a set of lymphokine , include granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) .
we demonstrate in early study that the upstream region of the mouse gm-csf promoter at position between -95 and -73 be essential for transcriptional activation in response to pma/a23187 .
this region contain two dna-binding motif , gm2 and gc-box .
the gm2 sequence ( ggtagttccc ) be recognize by an inducible factor nf-gm2 ; the other ( ccgccc ) by constitutive factor a1 , a2 , and b .
to elucidate the mechanism of gm-csf gene activation , we have purify the inducible factor nf-gm2 from the nuclear extract of stimulate jurkat cell on the basis of specific dna-binding activity .
the purify nf-gm2 consist of 50 ( p50 ) and 65 kda ( p65 ) polypeptide and have a binding activity specific for both the gm-csf and immunoglobulin kappa ( ggaaagtccc ) enhancer .
electrophoretically purify p50 alone can form a protein-dna complex , but in the mixture , p50 associate preferentially with p65 to form the nf-gm2 complex .
in addition , p65 give per se , with low affinity , a protein-dna complex that migrate more slowly than native nf-gm2 complex .
furthermore , an antiserum against kbf1 ( identical to 50 kda nf-kappa b protein ) react with the p50 of nf-gm2 , indicate that the nf-gm2 polypeptide can not be immunologically differentiate from the 50 kda subunit of nf-kappa b .
the purify nf-gm2 activate in vitro transcription from the kappa b enhancer , while it fail to stimulate transcription from the gm-csf promoter harbor the gm2 sequence .
this suggest that the activation mechanism of the gm-csf gene through the gm2/gc-box sequence be different from that of gene carry the kappa b enhancer alone .
severe combined immunodeficiency due to defective binding of the nuclear factor of activate t cell in t lymphocyte of two male sibling .
peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) and alloreactive t cell line of two male infant bear to consanguinous parent and present with severe combined immunodeficiency ( scid ) show a pronounced deficiency in t cell activation .
although phenotypically normal , the proliferative response of the childrens ' t cell be strongly reduce but could be improve by the addition of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) .
furthermore both childrens ' t cell be unable to produce the cytokine il-2 , interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) , il-4 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
this multiple cytokine production deficiency could not be restore by il-2 or co-stimulatory signal provide by antigen-presenting cell ( apc ) .
moreover , mrna for il-2 and ifn-gamma could not be detect .
in contrast , expression of the activation-dependent cell surface marker cd25 and cd69 be within normal limit .
to determine whether the functional defect of the patient ' t cell be due to the absence or abnormal binding of transcription factor involve in cytokine gene expression , electrophoretic mobility shift assay be use to examine the dna binding of ap-1 , oct , creb , sp1 , nf-kappa b and the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) to their respective response element in the promoter of the il-2 gene .
whereas ap-1 , nf-kappa b , oct , creb and sp1 display normal binding activity in nuclear extract , the binding of nf-at to it il-2 promoter response element be barely detectable both before and after t cell stimulation .
our result strongly suggest that this nf-at /dna binding defect be responsible for the multiple cytokine deficiency and the scid phenotype observe in the two infant brother .
regulation of c-jun mrna expression by hydroxyurea in human k562 cell during erythroid differentiation [ publish erratum appear in biochim biophys acta 1995 dec 27 ; 1264 ( 3 ) : 409 ]
hydroxyurea ( hu ) be an antitumor agent which also induce hemoglobinization during erythroid differentiation .
in addition , hu stimulate the synthesis of fetal hemoglobin in sickle cell anemia patient .
to far understand it mechanism of action , we investigate the effect of hu on regulation of c-jun expression prior to the onset of erythroid differentiation of k562 cell .
hu induce a dose-dependent stimulation of c-jun synthesis .
the level of c-jun mrna be elevate 4 to 7.5-fold by hu within 2 h .
this be follow by a gradual decline to the basal level by 24 h .
both nuclear run-on and actinomycin d pulse experiment strongly indicate that hu regulate c-jun mrna expression by increase the rate of synthesis as well a stabilize the c-jun mrna .
in addition , the level of jun protein be elevated by 2 to 5-fold within 4 h in hu treated cell .
furthermore , concentration of hu below 250 microm slightly increase the 5x ap-1 /cat activity .
these result strongly suggest that hu induce both transcriptional and post-transcription regulation of c-jun during erythroid differentiation .
characterization of a mutant cell line that do not activate nf-kappab in response to multiple stimulus .
numerous gene require during the immune or inflammation response as well a the adhesion process be regulate by nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) .
associate with it inhibitor , i kappab , nf-kappab reside a an inactive form in the cytoplasm .
upon stimulation by various agent , i kappab be proteolyzed and nf-kappab translocate to the nucleus , where it activate it target gene .
the transduction pathway that lead to i kappab inactivation remain poorly understand .
in this study , we have characterize a cellular mutant , the 70/z3-derived 1.3e2 murine pre-b cell line , that do not activate nf-kappab in response to several stimulus .
we demonstrate that upon stimulation by lipopolysaccharide , taxol , phorbol myristate acetate , interleukin-1 , or double-stranded rna , i kappab alpha be not degrade , a a result of an absence of induce phosphorylation on serine 32 and 36 .
neither a mutation in i kappab alpha nor a mutation in p50 or rela , the two major subunit of nf-kappab in this cell line , account for this phosphorylation defect .
as well a culminate in the inducible phosphorylation of i kappab alpha on serine 32 and 36 , all the stimulus that be inactive on 1.3e2 cell exhibit a sensitivity to the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) .
in contrast , stimulus such a hyperosmotic shock or phosphatase inhibitor , which use pdtc -insensitive pathway , induce i kappab alpha degradation in 1.3e2 .
analysis of the redox status of 1.3e2 do not reveal any difference from wild-type 70z/3 .
we also report that the human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) -derived tax trans-activator induce nf-kappab activity in 1.3e2 , suggest that this viral protein do not operate via the defective pathway .
finally , we show that two other i kappab molecule , i kappab beta and the recently identify i kappab epsilon , be not degrade in the 1.3e2 cell line follow stimulation .
our result demonstrate that 1.3e2 be a cellular transduction mutant exhibit a defect in a step that be require by several different stimulus to activate nf-kappab .
in addition , this analysis suggest a common step in the signaling pathway that trigger i kappab alpha , i kappab beta , and i kappab epsilon degradation .
the ets protein spi-b be express exclusively in b cell and t cell during development .
spi-b and pu.1 be hematopoietic-specific transcription factor that constitute a subfamily of the ets family of dna-binding protein .
here we show that contrary to previous report , pu.1 and spi-b have very different expression pattern .
pu.1 be express at high level in b cell , mast cell , megakaryocyte , macrophage , neutrophil , and immature erythroid cell and at low level in mature erythrocyte .
pu.1 be completely absent from peripheral t cell and most t cell line base on sensitive rt-pcr assay .
in contrast , spi-b be express exclusively in lymphoid cell and can be detect in early fetal thymus and spleen .
in situ hybridization of adult murine tissue demonstrate spi-b mrna in the medulla of the thymus , the white pulp of the spleen , and the germinal center of lymph node .
spi-b expression be very abundant in b cell and both spi-b mrna and protein be detect in some t cell .
in situ hybridization and northern blot analysis suggest that spi-b gene expression increase during b cell maturation and decrease during t cell maturation .
gel-retardation experiment show that spi-b can bind to all putative pu.1 binding site , but do not reveal any preferred spi-b binding site .
finally , both pu.1 and spi-b function a transcriptional activator of the immunoglobulin light-chain enhancer e lambda 2.4 when coexpressed with pip ( pu.1 -interaction partner ) in nih-3t3 cell .
take together , these data suggest that difference in pattern of expression between spi-b and pu.1 distinguish the function of each protein during development of the immune system .
upregulation of c-fos in activate t lymphoid and monocytic cell by human immunodeficiency virus-1 tat protein .
the regulatory tat protein of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv-1 ) be essential for viral replication and also show pleiotropic activity on various cell function .
to get further insight into the molecular mechanism underlie the biological activity of tat , we investigate the effect of endogenous and exogenous tat protein on c-fos gene expression in t lymphoblastoid ( jurkat ) and monocytic ( u937 ) cell line , as well a in primary peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) .
transient cotransfection of tat cdna in sense orientation ( tat/s ) , together with a plasmid contain the c-fos promoter ( fc3 , from - 711 to +42 ) in front of the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) gene significantly enhance cat activity in jurkat cell activate by the addition of 15 % fetal calf serum ( fcs ) or 5 micrograms/ml phytohemagglutinin plus 10(-7) mol/l phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) and u937 cell activate by 15 % fcs or 10(-7) mol/l pma .
this effect be specifically due to tat , since jurkat and u937 cell cotransfected either with tat cdna in antisense orientation ( tat/as ) , tat carry a mutation in the aminoacid cys22-gly22 ( tat 22/s ) or with the backbone vector alone ( prpneo-sl3 ) do not show any significant difference in c-fos promoter activity a compare to cell transfected with fc3 plasmid alone .
by use deletion mutant of the c-fos promoter , we find that the minimal dna sequence require for tat activity be located between nucleotide -404/-220 and that the serum responsive element ( sre , -317/-288 ) , present within this region , be still responsive to tat .
a single point mutation in the sre completely abrogate the responsiveness to tat/s .
exogenous recombinant tat protein be also able to upregulate c-fos promoter activity in serum-activated jurkat and u937 cell , as well a endogenous c-fos mrna expression and c-fos protein synthesis in both serum-activated cell line and primary pbmc .
c-fos protein be show essential for an optimal transactivation of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) by tat : incubation of jurkat cell with antisense , but not sense , c-fos oligonucleotides significantly reduce either the tat -enhanced expression of an ltr-cat reporter construct or the level of gag p24 in the culture supernatant of jurkat cell and pbmc acutely infect with hiv-1 .
our data suggest that the c-fos upregulation mediate by tat might play a significant role in the control of viral gene transactivation .
characterization of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 enhancer -binding protein from the human t-cell line jurkat .
the transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) be under the control of cellular protein that bind to the viral long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
among the protein-binding region of the hiv-1 ltr be the transcription-enhancer region .
we show that at least one inducible , c1 , and one constitutive , c2 , protein can bind to the hiv enhancer in jurkat cell .
the two protein differ in their surface charge , since they be separable by anion-exchange chromatography .
bivalent cation such a mg2+ and zn2+ differentially affect their binding to oligonucleotides which contain the hiv-enhancer domain .
both c1 and c2 protein also bind to a similar sequence find in the interleukin-2 -receptor alpha-subunit enhancer .
the inducible c1 protein be partially purify by three chromatographic step and characterize by u.v. cross-linking a a 47 kda protein .
reduce susceptibility to hiv-1 infection of ethyl-methanesulfonate-treated cem subclones correlate with a blockade in their protein kinase c signaling pathway .
we have describe the isolation of chemically induce cem subclones that express cd4 receptor and bind soluble gp120 , yet show a markedly reduce susceptibility to infection with hiv-1 .
two subclones be find to have an abnormal response to the protein kinase c ( pkc ) activator pma .
pma treatment induce cd3 and cd25 ( il-2r ) receptor on the parental line and on other ethyl-methanesulfonate-derived subclones , but not on these two mutant .
direct assay of pkc activity be conduct .
total cellular pkc enzymatic activity be find to be normal in these subclones .
pma -induced cd4 down-modulation occur normally .
in addition , activation of c-raf kinase be normal .
since hiv-1 long terminal repeat contain two functional nuclear factor kb ( nf-kb ) regulatory element , we study the ability of pma to induce nf-kb binding activity by different assay .
chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) assay use the hiv-1 ( -139 ) long terminal repeat-cat construct show no pma induction of cat activity in these subclones ( unlike the parental line and other subclones ) .
okadaic acid , an inhibitor of phosphatase 1 and 2a , do not overcome the defect in these subclones .
gel retardation assay , use a 32p-probe contain the hiv-1 nf-kb probe and nuclear extract from pma -treated cell , show significantly reduce induction of nuclear nf-kb binding protein in these two subclones compare with wild type cem and a control subclone .
deoxycholate treatment of cytoplasmic extract from these subclones release much reduce nf-kb binding protein from their cytoplasmic pool .
thus , reduced level of pkc -induced nuclear nf-kb activity in two t cell subclones do not affect their normal cell growth , but correlate with a pronounced reduction in their susceptibility to hiv-1 infection .
absence of t-cell- and b-cell- specific transcription factor tcf-1 , gata-3 , and bsap in hodgkin 's reed-sternberg cell .
base on the presence of t cell receptor-beta ( tcr-beta ) gene rearrangement in l428 and hdlm-1 cell , the expression of cd2 in hdlm-1 cell , and the presence of immunoglobulin heavy-chain ( igh ) gene rearrangement in km-h2 cell , some researcher have conclude that these long-term cell line derive from patient with hodgkin 's disease be lymphoid in nature .
the information obtain from these cell line have also be use in argument for a lymphoid origin of h-rs cell in tissue despite the frequent absence of lymphoid marker and ig/tcr gene rearrangement in these cell .
we question whether one can use the limited expression of lymphoid marker or the limited gene rearrangement to conclude that h-rs cell have a lymphoid origin , because these marker may be aberrant in tumor cell .
in this study , we examine the expression of two t-cell-specific transcription factor ( tcf-1 and gata-3 ) and one b-cell-specific transcription factor ( bsap ) in culture h-rs cell by use a gel mobility shift assay .
the sensitivity and specificity of this assay for determination of cell lineage have be establish in a large number of culture human and murine cell line .
all three type of h-rs cell line be consistently negative for bsap , tcf-1 , and gata-3 .
the absence of gata-3 be confirm in h-rs cell in tissue by an in situ hybridization technique .
virtually all b-cell line , with the exception of some myeloma cell line , be positive for bsap , which be the transcription factor for promoter for several b-cell marker , include vpreb1 , lambda 5 , cd19 , and cd20 .
all t-cell line test be positive for tcf-1 and gata-3 , which be the transcription factor for promoter for several t-cell-restricted marker , include cd2 , cd3 , tcr , and lck .
the absence of bsap , tcf-1 , and gata-3 clearly indicate an underlying difference between h-rs cell and lymphoid cell .
role of egr-2 in up-regulation of fa ligand in normal t cell and aberrant double-negative lpr and gld t cell .
we previously identify a fa ligand regulatory element ( flre ) in the fa ligand ( fasl ) promoter that bind egr family protein and demonstrate that egr-3 ( pilot ) but not egr-1 ( ngfi-a , krox-24 , tis-8 , and zif-268 ) induce transcription of fasl .
the aberrant cd4(-) cd8(-) t cell from lpr/lpr and gld/gld mouse , which have mutation in the gene encode fa and fasl , respectively , have an activate phenotype and constitutively express high level of fasl mrna , prompt u to ask what role if any the flre and egr family protein have in this aberrant expression of fasl .
unstimulated mrl-lpr/lpr and c3h-gld/gld cd4(-) cd8(-) t cell constitutively contain high level of two protein that bind to the flre .
supershift analysis reveal these protein to be egr-1 and egr-2 ( krox-20 ) ; egr-3 be not detect .
activation of normal lymph node cell result in increase expression of egr -1 , -2 , and -3 .
a with egr-3 , expression of egr-2 be block by cyclosporin a .
although overexpressed egr-1 be ineffective , overexpressed egr-2 be as potent a egr-3 in induce fasl promoter-dependent reporter construct in t cell hybridoma and hela cell , and both up-regulated endogenous fasl mrna in hela cell .
fasl -dependent reporter construct in mrl-lpr/lpr and c3h-gld/gld cd4(-) cd8(-) t cell be constitutively active , and this activity be largely prevent by mutation of the critical egr family binding element .
thus , egr-2 , in addition to egr-3 , regulate fasl expression in activate normal t cell , and egr-2 be likely to play a direct role in aberrant fasl up-regulation in lpr/lpr and gld/gld cd4(-) cd8(-) t cell .
cutting edge : dominant effect of ile50val variant of the human il-4 receptor alpha-chain in ige synthesis .
two variant of the il-4r alpha-chain ( il-4ralpha ) gene have be recently identify in association with different atopic disorder .
to clarify the etiological relationship between the two variant , we analyze responsiveness to il-4 of transfectants with four kind of il-4ralpha carry either val or ile at 50 and either gln or arg at 551 .
the substitution of ile for val augment stat6 activation , proliferation , and transcription activity of the iepsilon promoter by il-4 , whereas that of arg for gln do not change these il-4 signal .
arg551 be not associate with atopic asthma in the japanese population .
cd23 expression and ige synthesis by il-4 be augmented in ile50 -bearing pbmc , compare with those bear val50 .
take together , substitution of arg551 do not enhance the il-4 signal for generation of germline epsilon transcript , whereas the substitution of ile50 contribute to enhancement of ige synthesis .
direct exposure to 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) increase infectivity of human erythrocyte to a malarial parasite .
direct exposure to 10 nm 2,3,7,8-tcdd cause a 75 % increase and a 2-fold increase in the infectivity of isolate human erythrocyte to p. falciparum after 48 hour when the parasite be in an unsynchronized or synchronized state of growth , respectively .
treatment of human erythrocyte with 10 microm sodium orthovanadate ( naov ) , an inhibitor of plasma membrane ca-atpase and phosphotyrosine phosphatase , decrease parasitemia by 30 % .
co-treatment of rbc with tcdd and naov completely block the tcdd -induced increase in parasitemia .
because erythrocyte be anucleated , these result be discuss a evidence for biochemical change by tcdd without require the activation of gene product .
translocation ( 3 ; 14 ) ( q27 ; q11 ) : a new variant translocation in a patient with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma of b-cell type with bcl6 rearrangement .
we report a 65-year-old woman with non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( nhl ) carry a t(3;14)(q27;q11) and bcl6 rearrangement in the affect cell .
she have generalize lymphadenopathy and the bone marrow be infiltrate by lymphoma cell at presentation .
histological diagnosis be " malignant lymphoma , diffuse , large cell " type accord to an international working formulation .
chromosome analysis reveal a t(3;14)(q27;q11) , which be a new variant translocation of t(3;14)_(q27;q32) .
southern blot analysis show rearrangement of bcl6 , jh , and tcr beta but not of tcr delta .
cosmid probe of bcl6 hybridize to 14q11 and 3q27 by fluorescence in situ hybridization ( fish ) .
although the band 14q11 be a locus of t-cell receptor alpha- and delta- chain ( tcr alpha/delta ) , lymphoma cell express b-cell , iggk phenotype .
the finding suggest that a novel proto-oncogene in the vicinity of tcr alpha/delta be involve in this translocation .
contribution of nf-kappa b and sp1 binding motif to the replicative capacity of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 : distinct pattern of viral growth be determine by t-cell type .
start with a replication-incompetent molecular clone of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 , lack all the nf-kappa b and sp1 binding site present in the native long terminal repeat ( ltr ) , provirus contain reconstruct ltrs with individual or combination of nf-kappa b and sp1 element be generate and evaluate for their capacity to produce virus progeny follow transfection-cocultivation .
virus stock obtain from these experiment exhibit a continuum of replicative capacity in different human t-cell type depend on which element ( s ) be present in the ltr .
for example , in experiment involve proviral clone with ltrs contain one or two nf-kappa b element ( and no sp1 binding site ) , a hierarchy of cellular permissivity to virus replication ( peripheral blood lymphocyte = mt4 great than h9 great than cem great than jurkat ) be observe .
of note be the associate emergence of second-site ltr revertants which involve an alteration of the tata box .
these result suggest that the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ltr possess functional redundancy which ensure virus replication in different t-cell type and be capable of change depend on the particular combination of transcriptional factor present .
dissociation of the jak kinase pathway from g-csf receptor signaling in neutrophil .
activation of the granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor ( g-csfr ) induce rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of multiple intracellular substrate in proliferate cell and nonproliferating , terminally differentiate neutrophil .
the kinase that couple ligand bind to tyrosine phosphorylation of cellular substrate by the g-csfr with activation of specific functional program be largely unknown .
in this study , we examine early signaling event in proliferate and terminally differentiate cell follow g-csf stimulation to determine whether identical signaling cascade be activate .
in murine ba/f3 cell transfected with the human g-csfr and nfs-60 cell constitutively express the murine g-csfr , g-csf induce tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of jak1 , jak2 , and tyk2 .
tyrosine phosphorylation of stat3 and , to a less extent , stat1 be also detect follow g-csf stimulation .
use a mitogenically incompetent human g-csfr mutant in which pro639 and pro641 be substitute by alanine , the box 1 pdp motif be find to be require for activation of jak kinase , tyrosine phosphorylation of the g-csfr , and recruitment of stat protein .
notably , no activation of jak1 , jak2 , tyk2 , stat1 , or stat3 be observe in neutrophil follow g-csf stimulation .
in addition , there be no detectable activation in neutrophil of the recently clone jak3 kinase , which have be report to be express at high level a myeloid cell undergo terminal neutrophilic maturation .
these result indicate a lack of involvement of jak kinase in signaling by the g-csfr in neutrophil , and suggest utilization of alternative signal transduction pathway distinct from those in proliferate cell .
activation of the jak -stat pathway correlate with proliferative signaling by the g-csfr and require the membrane-proximal box 1 pxp motif , which be conserve in member of the cytokine receptor superfamily .
cd14 -mediated signal pathway of porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide in human gingival fibroblast .
lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) induce expression of inflammatory cytokine in monocytes/macrophages via cd14 , one of the lp receptor , which be express predominantly in these cell .
it have be demonstrate that porphyromonas gingivalis lp ( p- lp ) also be able to induce inflammatory cytokine in human gingival fibroblast .
therefore , it be important to determine whether cd14 be express in gingival fibroblast and to define the p- lp -mediated signal-transducing mechanism in the cell .
in this study , we observe unexpectedly by immunohistochemical , western blotting ( immunoblotting ) , and northern ( rna ) blotting assay that cd14 be express at high density in human gingival fibroblast .
p- lp -induced expression of the monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 ( mcp-1 ) gene in the cell be inhibit markedly by treatment with anti-human cd14 antibody and be completely inhibit by herbimycin a , a potent inhibitor of tyrosine kinase .
the inhibitor also dramatically inhibit monocyte chemotactic activity of and mcp-1 production by the cell .
furthermore , p- lp -induced expression of the mcp-1 gene in the cell also be block by inhibitor of two transcription factor , i.e. , curcumin , an inhibitor of ap-1 , and pyrolidine dithiocarbamate , an inhibitor of nf-kappab .
both inhibitor inhibit monocyte chemotactic activity in the culture supernatant of p- lp -treated cell .
gel shift mobility assay show stimulation of the ap-1 and nf-kappab content in p- lp -treated cell .
this study be the first to demonstrate the expression of cd14 in human gingival fibroblast and to show that the signal-transducing pathway of p- lp in the cell be mediate by cd14 .
identification of nucleotide sequence that regulate transcription of the mcf13 murine leukemia virus long terminal repeat in activate t cell .
the region downstream of the enhancer ( den ) of the long terminal repeat of the mink cell focus-forming murine leukemia virus be important for viral pathogenicity .
another important activity of den be it control of transcription in activate t cell , and we have determine that an nf-kappab site be critical for this activity .
potent gene regulatory and antiproliferative activity of 20-methyl analogue of 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 .
the biological active form of vitamin d3 , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( vd ) , regulate cellular growth and differentiation .
this provide the hormone with an interesting therapeutic potential .
however , hypercalcemia be a side effect , which be cause by vd 's classical action , the regulation of calcium homeostasis .
this make the need for vd analogue with selectively increase cell regulatory property .
study with 20-epi analogue point out the importance of the carbon-20 position and lead to the development of 20-methyl derivative of vd .
in this report the biological property of the compound zk161422 and zk157202 , which be 20-methyl- and 20-methyl-23- eneanalogues , respectively , have be analyze in comparison with vd .
both compound show about 2-fold low affinity to the vd receptor ( vdr ) than vd .
however , compare to vd , their antiproliferative effect be up to 30-fold high on human peripheral blood mononuclear cell and even up to 300-fold high on human breast cancer mcf-7 cell .
whereas the hypercalcemic effect for zk157202 be also increase 10-fold , zk161422 have the same calcium -mobilizing potency a vd .
moreover , zk161422 , but not zk157202 , show preference for gene activation from a promoter carry a vd response element with a palindromic arrangement of two hexameric receptor binding site space by 9 nucleotide ( ip9 ) rather than for activation from a response element form by a direct repeat space by 3 nucleotide ( dr3 ) .
this observation support a model , in which promoter selectivity reflect the selectively increase antiproliferative effect of vd analogue .
membrane receptor for aldosterone : a novel pathway for mineralocorticoid action .
rapid nongenomic in vitro effect of aldosterone on intracellular electrolyte , cell volume , and na(+)-h+ antiport have be find in human mononuclear leukocyte ( hml ) .
binding of 125i-labeled aldosterone to plasma membrane of hml share important feature with these functional data .
this include a very low apparent dissociation constant ( kd ) of 0.1 nm for both aldosterone and the effect on the na(+)-h(+)-antiport , a high turnover rate , and the almost exclusive binding selectivity for aldosterone .
dexamethasone , ru 26988 , corticosterone , ouabain , amiloride , and 18-hydroxyprogesterone be inactive a ligand .
deoxycorticosterone acetate have an intermediate activity with an apparent kd of 100 nm .
these finding be the first to demonstrate membrane binding of aldosterone be compatible with major aspect of it nongenomic effect .
endothelial production of mcp-1 : modulation by heparin and consequence for mononuclear cell activation .
heparin be a polyanionic glycosaminoglycan ( gag ) that can bind with high affinity to a range of cytokine include interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) and member of the chemokine superfamily .
this gag also possess immunomodulatory activity in vivo and can antagonize the capacity of ifn-gamma to induce class ii mhc antigen expression , and to up-regulate intercellular adhesion molecule-1 , by culture endothelial cell .
previous study have show that binding to cell-surface heparan sulphate be essential for optimal activity of ifn-gamma and that free heparin competitively inhibit this sequestration process .
the present study be perform to increase our understanding of the immunosuppressive activity of heparin by investigation of potential antagonism of the production and function of monocyte chemotactic peptide-1 ( mcp-1 ) , a chemokine important for mononuclear leucocyte recruitment across vascular endothelium .
it be find that mixture of heparin with ifn-gamma inhibit up-regulation of the signal transducer and activator of transcription protein , stat-1 produce normally by treatment of endothelial cell with ifn-gamma .
an inhibition of mcp-1 production be observe that be specifically cause by mixture of ifn-gamma with heparin-like , and therefore cytokine-binding , gag .
it be also show that mixture of heparin -like gag with mcp-1 inhibit the rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase which be normally produce by treatment of mononuclear leucocyte with this chemokine .
blockade of this intracellular signalling event be associate with a reduction in the normal transendothelial migration response towards mcp-1 .
result from this study indicate that soluble , heparin -like gag can block ifn-gamma -dependent up-regulation of mcp-1 production by culture endothelial cell , and can also antagonize the leucocyte-activating and migration-promoting property of pre-existing mcp-1 .
these activity may contribute to the immunomodulatory property of heparin .
surfactant protein a activate nf-kappa b in the thp-1 monocytic cell line .
the expression of many gene for which product be involve in inflammation be control by the transcriptional regulator nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b .
because surfactant protein ( sp ) a be involve in local host defense in the lung and alter immune cell function by modulate the expression of proinflammatory cytokine as well a surface protein involve in inflammation , we hypothesize that sp-a exert it action , at least in part , via activation of nf-kappa b .
we use gel shift assay to determine whether sp-a activate nf-kappa b in the thp-1 cell line , a human monocytic cell line .
activation of nf-kappa b in thp-1 cell by sp-a dos as low a 1 microgram/ml occur within 30 min of sp-a treatment , peak at 60 min , and then decline .
this activation be inhibit by known inhibitor of nf-kappa b or by simultaneous treatment of the cell with surfactant lipid .
moreover , the nf-kappa b inhibitor block sp-a -dependent increase in tumor necrosis factor-alpha mrna level .
these observation suggest a mechanism by which sp-a play a role in the pathogenesis of some lung condition and point to potential therapeutic measure that could be use to prevent sp-a induced inflammation in the lung .
constitutive activation of nf-kb in human thymocytes .
nf-kb be a eukaryotic transcription regulatory factor .
in t cell and t cell line , nf-kb be bind to a cytoplasmic proteic inhibitor , the ikb .
treatment of t cell with mitogen ( phorbol ester ) or cytokine ( tnf alpha ) induce nf-kb nuclear translocation and the subsequent expression of nf-kb dependent t cell gene .
here we examine the activation of nf-kb in human t cell thymic progenitor .
we report difference in (ca2+)i requirement for nf-kb activation in thymocytes a compare to mature t cell .
furthermore , our result indicate that thymocytes have a constitutively active form of nf-kb , suggest that they be activate in vivo .
tramp , a novel apoptosis-mediating receptor with sequence homology to tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 and fa ( apo-1/cd95 ) .
a novel member of the tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) receptor family , designate tramp , have be identify .
the structural organization of the 393 amino acid long human tramp be most homologous to tnf receptor 1 .
tramp be abundantly express on thymocytes and lymphocyte .
it extracellular domain be compose of four cysteine-rich domain , and the cytoplasmic region contain a death domain know to signal apoptosis .
overexpression of tramp lead to two major response , nf-kappab activation and apoptosis .
tramp -induced cell death be inhibit by an inhibitor of ice-like protease , but not by bcl-2 .
in addition , tramp do not appear to interact with any of the known apoptosis -inducing ligand of the tnf family .
induction of nuclear factor kappa b/rel nuclear activity in human peripheral blood t lymphocyte by anti-hla class i monoclonal antibody .
monoclonal antibody against either monomorphic or polymorphic determinant of class i antigen induce in pbmc and highly purify t lymphocyte the nuclear activity of nf-kappa b/rel complex .
these include both p50/p50 and p50/p65 dimer , recognize by specific antibody in emsa .
the induce complex be detectable in extract of cell incubate with anti-class i monoclonal antibody ( mab ) for 1.5 h ; the induction be maximal at 5 h , persistent at 16 h and no long observe at 40 h .
the mab fail to induce nf-kappa b/rel nuclear activity in cell incubate in the presence of 3,4-dichloroisocoumarin , an inhibitor of i kappa b-alpha degradation .
together , these result suggest that class i triggering can induce the activity of nf-kappa b/rel nuclear activity in peripheral blood t lymphocyte , thereby modulate the expression of gene regulate by these transcription factor .
mapping of the transcriptional repression domain of the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct-2a .
the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct-2a be implicate in b cell-specific transcriptional activity via the octamer motif .
structure/function analysis of various oct-2a effector region in the context of the gal4 dna-binding domain reveal that oct-2a contain two functionally different activation domain at the n and the c terminus .
the transcriptional activity of both domain be strongly potentiate by interaction with distinct b cell-specific coactivators .
recently , we have identify a repression domain located within the n terminus of oct-2a ( amino acid 2-99 ) .
when this domain be transfer to a potent activator , transcription be strongly inhibit .
in this study we present a deletion analysis of the n-terminal region of oct-2a to determine the minimal repression domain .
we identify a stretch of 23 amino acid , rich in serine and threonine residue , which be responsible for most of the repression activity .
we show that repression be strongly dependent on the type of enhancer present in the reporter plasmid as well a on the cell line test .
the possibility that oct-2a can act a an activator and/or a repressor may have important consequence for the function of oct-2a in b cell differentiation and other developmental process .
lp tolerance in monocytes/macrophages : three 3' cytosins be require in the dna binding motif for detection of upregulated nf-kappa b p50 homodimers .
when monocyte be stimulate with lp ( lipopolysaccharide ) repeatedly then the initially high expression of the tnf ( tumor necrosis factor ) gene be only very low , i.e. the cell be tolerant to lp .
tolerant cell still express the cd14 receptor and they can still be activate to mobilize nf-kappa b into nucleus .
analysis of the bind protein employ the -605 motif of the human tnf promoter ( ggggctgtccc ) reveal that in tolerant cell of the human monocytic cell line mono mac 6 there be a predominance of p50p50 of nf-kappa b .
we now show that a mutant motif that exchange the terminal 3' c for a g fail to bind the p50 homodimer that be upregulated in lp toler ant human mono mac 6 cell .
the same be true for nuclear extract take from the murine p388d1 macrophage cell line when test with the -516 motif of the murine tnf promoter ( gggggctttccc ) .
here the wild type motif give efficient binding of p50p50 that again be upregulated in tolerant cell whereas a mutant with a 3' g show hardly any binding of p50p50 .
conversely , the murine kappa light chain enhancer motif ( ggggactttccg ) do not efficiently bind the nuclear p50p50 from tolerant murine p388 macrophage .
binding be , however , readily detect when the 3' g be replace by a c .
these data show that the detection of upregulated p50 homodimers in lp tolerant cell be dependent on subtle difference in the sequence of the dna binding motif .
transcription factor effect on chromosome constitution of cell hybrid .
when immunoglobulin ( ig ) -secreting plasmacytoma be fuse to a t-cell lymphoma , ig gene expression cease in great than 95 % of the result hybrid .
in the rare hybrid that continue to express ig , all other test b lymphocyte-specific gene also remain active .
the low frequency with which these ig-expressing hybrid be recover , along with the fact that cell fusion can lead to chromosome loss , lead u to propose that this rare phenotype be due to loss of a t-cell-derived chromosome encode a factor or factor with gene silencing activity .
to identify the relevant chromosome , we have use a polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) -assisted method of chromosome mapping to analyze both ig-silenced ( common ) and ig-expressing ( rare ) hybrid .
although no single chromosome be find to correlate with ig gene silencing , we discover that the two type of hybrid have undergo distinct pattern of chromosome loss .
moreover , we find that ectopic expression of a b-cell-specific transcription factor ( oct-2 ) dramatically alter both the phenotype and chromosome constitution of hybrid arise in these cell fusion .
glucocorticoid -mediated repression of cytokine gene transcription in human arteritis-scid chimera .
giant cell arteritis ( gca ) be a vasculitic syndrome that preferentially affect medium and large -sized artery .
glucocorticoid therapy resolve clinical symptom within hour to day , but therapy have to be continue over several year to prevent disease relapse .
it be not know whether and how glucocorticoid affect the function of the inflammatory infiltrate or why the disease persist subclinically despite chronic treatment .
gca be self-sustained in temporal artery engraft into scid mouse , provide a model in which the mechanism of action and limitation of glucocorticoid therapy can be examine in vivo .
administration of dexamethasone to temporal artery-scid chimera for 1 wk induce a partial suppression of t cell and macrophage function a indicate by the reduce tissue concentration of il-2 , il-1beta , and il-6 mrna , and by the diminish expression of inducible no synthase .
in contrast , synthesis of ifn-gamma mrna be only slightly decrease , and expression of tgf-beta1 be unaffected .
these finding correlate with activation of the ikappabalpha gene and blockade of the nuclear translocation of nfkappab in the xenotransplanted tissue .
dose-response experiment suggest that steroid dos currently use in clinical medicine be suboptimal in repress nfkappab -mediated cytokine production in the inflammatory lesion .
chronic steroid therapy be able to deplete the t cell product il-2 and ifn-gamma , whereas the activation of tissue-infiltrating macrophage be only partially affect .
il-1beta transcription be abrogate ; in contrast , tgf-beta1 mrna synthesis be steroid resistant .
the persistence of tgf-beta1-transcribing macrophage , despite paralysis of t cell function , may provide an explanation for the chronicity of the disease , and may identify a novel therapeutic target in this inflammatory vasculopathy .
regulation of il-4 expression by the transcription factor junb during t helper cell differentiation .
the molecular basis for restricted cytokine expression by t helper 1 ( th1 ) and t helper 2 ( th2 ) cell be unclear .
previous study find that p1 , an element of the interleukin 4 ( il-4 ) promoter that bind ap-1 , be important for th2-restricted il-4 expression .
here we show that junb , but not the other jun family member , be selectively induce in th2 cell and not in th1 cell during differentiation .
junb have previously be consider to be a negative regulator of transcription .
however , we show that junb bind directly to the p1 site and synergizes with c-maf to activate an il-4 luciferase reporter gene .
junb -control of il-4 expression be mediate by the phosphorylation of junb at thr 102 and - 104 by jnk map kinase .
the synergy between c-maf and junb can be attribute to cooperative dna binding , which be facilitate by junb phosphorylation .
in transgenic mouse , elevated junb level cause increase expression of several th2 cytokine in develop th1 cell .
junb also upregulated il-4 expression in response to immunization .
thus , the early increase of junb protein in th2 cell can provide the specificity for c-maf in il-4 expression during t cell development and direct thereby th2 differentiation .
hla-dr- , cd33+ , cd56+ , cd16- myeloid/natural killer cell acute leukemia : a previously unrecognized form of acute leukemia potentially misdiagnosed a french-american-british acute myeloid leukemia-m3 [ see comment ]
we have identify and characterize a previously unrecognized form of acute leukemia that share feature of both myeloid and natural killer ( nk ) cell .
from a consecutive series of 350 case of adult de novo acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) , we identify 20 case ( 6 % ) with a unique immunophenotype : cd33+ , cd56+ , cd11a+ , cd13lo , cd15lo , cd34+/- , hla-dr - , cd16 - .
multicolor flow cytometric assay confirm the coexpression of myeloid ( cd33 , cd13 , cd15 ) and nk cell-associated ( cd56 ) antigen in each case , whereas reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) assay confirm the identity of cd56 ( neural cell adhesion molecule ) in leukemic blast .
although two case express cd4 , no case express cd2 , cd3 , or cd8 and no case show clonal rearrangement of gene encode the t-cell receptor ( tcr beta , gamma , delta ) .
leukemic blast in the majority of case share unique morphologic feature ( deeply invaginated nuclear membrane , scant cytoplasm with fine azurophilic granularity , and finely granular sudan black b and myeloperoxidase cytochemical reactivity ) that be remarkably similar to those of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) ; particularly the microgranular variant ( fab aml -m3v ) .
however , all 20 case lack the t(15;17) and 17 case test lack the promyelocytic/retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar alpha ) fusion transcript in rt-pcr assay ; 12 case have 46,xx or 46,xy karyotype , whereas 2 case have abnormality of chromosome 17q : 1 with del(17)(q25) and the other with t(11;17)(q23;q21) and the promyelocytic leukemia zinc finger/ rar alpha fusion transcript .
all case test ( 6/20 ) , include the case with t(11;17) , fail to differentiate in vitro in response to all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) , suggest that these case may account for some apls that have not show a clinical response to atra .
four of 6 case test show functional nk cell-mediated cytotoxicity , suggest a relationship between these unique cd33+ , cd56+ , cd16 - acute leukemia and normal cd56+ , cd16- nk precursor cell .
use a combination of panning and multiparameter flow cytometric sorting , we identify a normal cd56+ , cd33+ , cd16- counterpart cell at a frequency of 1 % to 2 % in the peripheral blood of healthy individual .
our study suggest that this form of acute leukemia may arise from transformation of a precursor cell common to both the myeloid and nk cell lineage ; thus we propose the designation myeloid/nk acute leukemia .
recognition of this new leukemic entity will be important in distinguish these atra -nonresponsive case from atra -responsive true apl .
[ change in leucocytic estrogen receptor level in patient with climacteric syndrome and therapeutic effect of liuwei dihuang pill ]
the number of estrogen receptor ( er ) in human peripheral leucocyte in 22 woman with climacteric syndrome be measure by radioligand method .
the result be compare with those of 12 normal child-bearing-age woman .
it wat find that the content of leucocytic er in climacteric syndrome patient be significantly low than normal child-bearing-age woman .
the author use a chinese prescription -- liuwei dihuang pill ( ldp ) to treat the patient for 2 month .
the number of leucocytic er be significantly increase after treatment .
the data indicate that decrease of er level in cell may involve in the pathogenesis of climacteric syndrome .
ldp not only increase plasma estradiol level , but also increase the leucocytic er level .
this may be the basis of the therapeutic effect on the disease .
identification of human tr2 orphan receptor response element in the transcriptional initiation site of the simian virus 40 major late promoter [ publish erratum appear in j biol chem 1995 nov 3 ; 270 ( 44 ) : 26721 ]
a dna response element ( tr2re-sv40 ) for the tr2 orphan receptor , a member of the steroid-thyroid hormone receptor superfamily , have be identify in the simian virus 40 ( sv40 ) +55 region ( nucleotide number 368-389 , 5'-gttaaggttcgtaggtcatgga-3' ) .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay , use in vitro translate tr2 orphan receptor with a molecular mass of 67 kilodaltons , show a specific binding with high affinity ( dissociation constant = 9 nm ) for this dna sequence .
dna-swap experiment use chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase assay demonstrate that androgen can suppress the transcriptional activity of sv40 early promoter via the interaction between this tr2re- sv40 and the chimeric receptor ar/tr2/ar with the dna-binding domain of the tr2 orphan receptor flank by the n-terminal and androgen-binding domain of the androgen receptor .
in addition , this tr2re- sv40 can function a a repressor to suppress the transcriptional activity of both sv40 early and late promoter .
together , these data suggest the tr2re- sv40 may represent the first identify natural dna response element for the tr2 orphan receptor that may function a a repressor for the sv40 gene expression .
dna triplex formation selectively inhibit granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene expression in human t cell .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) be a hemopoietic growth factor that be express in activate t cell , fibroblast , macrophage , and endothelial cell .
although gm-csf do not appear to be essential for normal hemopoiesis , overexpression of gm-csf have be implicate in the pathogenesis of some disease such a myeloid leukemia and chronic inflammation .
an nf-kappab /rel binding site within the gm-csf promoter , term the kappab element appear to be important for control expression in reporter gene assay in response to a number of stimulus in t cell .
we investigate oligonucleotide -directed triple helix formation across this regulatory sequence a a potential tool to inhibit gm-csf gene transcription .
a 15-base oligonucleotide , gm3 , be target to a purine-rich region in the gm-csf proximal promoter , which overlap the kappab element .
gel mobility shift assay and dnase i footprinting demonstrate that gm3 form a sequence-specific collinear triplex with it double-stranded dna target .
triplex formation by gm3 block recombinant and nuclear nf-kappab protein bind to the gm-csf element .
gm3 also cause selective inhibition of the human t-cell lymphotrophic virus-1 tax transactivator-induced luciferase activity from a reporter construct drive by the gm-csf promoter in jurkat t cell .
finally , gm3 greatly reduce the concentration of endogenous gm-csf mrna induce by different stimulus in jurkat t cell but do not affect interleukin 3 mrna level in the same cell .
we conclude that the kappab element in the gm-csf promoter play a central role in the transcriptional activation of the endogenous gm-csf gene .
colinear triplex formation act a a selective transcriptional repressor of the gm-csf gene and may have potential therapeutic application in case of undesirable overexpression of this protein .
low cd3+cd28-induced interleukin-2 production correlate with decrease reactive oxygen intermediate formation in neonatal t cell .
the capacity of neonatal t cell to secrete interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) have be report to be variable .
we analyse il-2 production in purify neonatal and adult t cell use polyclonal activator phorbol ester + calcium ionophore ( pdbu + iono ) or receptor-mediated anti-cd3 /anti-cd3+ anti-cd28 stimulation .
pdbu + iono induce equally high il-2 level in both group and , when stimulate with plate-bound anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) , the il-2 secretion by neonatal cell be undetectable and adult cell produce low amount of il-2 ( mean 331 +/- 86 pg/ml ) .
the addition of anti-cd28 mab to anti-cd3-stimulated cell markedly increase il-2 production in both cell type , but level of il-2 in neonatal t cell remain clearly low than those of adult t cell ( respective mean value : 385 +/- 109 pg/ml and 4494 +/- 1199 pg/ml ) .
a nf-kappa b be a critical transcription factor in the control of il-2 expression , we next analyse it nuclear translocation in neonatal and adult t cell use the electrophoretic mobility shift assay and , because induction of reactive oxygen intermediate ( roi ) be require for the activation of nf-kappa b , we also analyse level of intracellular roi in these cell use the roi -reactive fluorochrome dcfh-da and flow cytometry .
in neonatal t cell nf-kappa b activation and roi formation after anti-cd3 stimulation be low compare with adult t cell and , although addition of anti-cd28 mab increase induction of nf-kappa b and roi formation , level similar to those of adult be not achieve .
after pdbu + iono stimulation , the cell show similar roi formation and il-2 secretion .
our result suggest that reduce il-2 production by neonatal t cell be specific for anti-cd3 and anti-cd3 + anti-cd28 -mediated stimulation and that these activator can not effectively activate the roi -nf-kappa b signalling pathway in neonatal t cell .
soluble factor secrete by activate t-lymphocytes modulate the transcription of the immunosuppressive cytokine tgf-beta 2 in glial cell .
coordination of the immune response to injury or disease in the brain be postulate to involve bi-directional discourse between the immune system and the central nervous system .
this cross communication involve soluble mediator , include various growth factor , cytokine , and neuropeptides .
in this report , we demonstrate that the supernatant from activate t-lymphocytes be able to induce the transcription of a potent cytokine , tgf-beta 2 in glial cell .
the activate stimulus invoke signaling mechanism distinct from known kinase or protease pathway .
activation of tgf-beta 2 transcription correlate with the loss of binding activity for an 80 kda glial labile repressor protein , glrp , to a responsive region within the tfg-beta 2 promoter .
although glrp share some characteristic with the inducible transcription factor ap-1 , it appear to be distinct from known ap-1 family member .
these data along with previous observation demonstrate the potent immunosuppressive activity of tgf-beta 2 , support a model for a feedback mechanism between the activate t-lymphocytes and astrocyte via tgf-beta 2 to regulate the immune response .
a low nm23.h1 gene expression identify high malignancy human melanoma .
the nm23 gene have be propose a a metastasis-suppressor gene , and it use have be suggest a prognostic factor .
nm23 be identify in a system of murine melanoma cell line , in which an inverse relationship be find between nm23 expression and metastatic ability .
in a human malignant melanoma study nm23 expression be find to be significantly low in metastasis that develop less than 24 month after diagnosis of the primary tumour .
the present paper study the expression of the nm23 .h1 gene in cell line which derive from primary or metastatic human malignant melanoma in relation to staging , infiltration degree , lymphocytic infiltration , cell morphology , cell pigmentation , karyotype , and disease-free survival .
the level of mrna expression of the nm23 gene be significantly low in cell line that derive from more infiltrate primary melanoma than in cell line obtain from less infiltrating tumour .
moreover , cell line derive from tumour of patient with a disease-free survival of more than 24 month ( 24-58 month ) express the nm23 gene at high level than cell line obtain from melanoma of patient with a disease-free survival of less than 24 month ( 6-15 month ) .
protective effect of notch-1 on tcr -induced apoptosis .
the notch receptor protein be originally identify in drosophila and be know to mediate cell to cell communication and influence cell fate decision .
member of this family have be isolate from invertebrate as well a vertebrate .
we isolate mouse notch-1 in a yeast two-hybrid screen with nur77 , which be a protein that have be show previously to be require for apoptosis in t cell line .
the data present below indicate that notch-1 expression provide significant protection to t cell line from tcr -mediated apoptosis .
these data demonstrate a new antiapoptotic role for notch-1 , provide evidence that , in addition to regulate cell fate decision , notch-1 can play a critical role in control level of cell death in t cell .
nuclear factor-kappab activation in human monocyte stimulate with lipopolysaccharide be inhibit by fibroblast conditioned medium and exogenous pge2 .
the nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) be think to be crucially involve in the gene activation of several cytokine , include tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf ) .
previously , we show that fibroblast conditioned medium ( fcm ) be able to inhibit both tnf mrna accumulation and protein release in peripheral blood-derived human monocyte ( pbm ) stimulate with lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
in this study we have investigate the effect of fcm on the lp -induced dna-binding activity of nf-kappab , by mean of electrophoretic shift assay ( emsa ) .
we provide evidence that fcm strongly inhibit the lp -induced nf-kappab activation in pbm .
furthermore , we show that exogenous pge2 mimic the nf-kappab inhibitory effect of fcm .
on the other hand , fcm produce in the presence of indomethacin do not inhibit nf-kappab activation by lp .
our result lend further support to the hypothesis that inflammatory and immune response of monocytes/macrophages may be modulate at the molecular level by signal originate from tissue structural cell such a fibroblast .
signalling into the t-cell nucleus : nfat regulation .
the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) play an important role in t-cell biology .
activation of t cell result in the rapid calcineurin -dependent translocation of nfat transcription factor from the cytoplasm to the nucleus .
this translocation process couple to the subsequent active maintenance of nfat in the nucleus compartment be critical for the induction of expression of several gene encode cytokine and membrane protein that modulate immune response .
the molecular cloning of the nfat family of transcription factor have facilitate rapid progress in the understanding of the signalling mechanism that control the activity of nfat .
gata-1 dna binding activity be down-regulated in late s phase in erythroid cell .
we have set out to test a model for tissue-specific gene expression that rely on the early replication of express gene to sequester limit activate transcription factor .
use an erythroid cell line , we have test the change in the dna binding activity of the lineage-restricted transcription factor gata-1 through the cell cycle .
we find that gata-1 activity be low in g1 , peak in mid-s phase , and then decrease in g2/m .
in contrast , the binding activity of two ubiquitous transcription factor , oct1 and sp1 , remain high in g2/m .
gata-1 protein and mrna vary in a similar manner through the cell cycle , suggest that the expression of the gene or the stability of it message be regulate .
although a number of transcription factor involve in the control of the cell cycle or dna replication have be show to peak in s phase , this be the first example of a lineage-restricted transcription factor display s phase -specific dna binding activity .
one interpretation of these data lead to a model in which the peak in gata-1 dna binding amplify the effect of early replication on the activation of erythroid-specific gene at the same time a prevent activation of non-erythroid gene contain gata-responsive element .
these result may also relate to recent data implicate gata-1 function in apoptosis and cell cycle progression
e2f-1 and a cyclin-like dna repair enzyme , uracil-dna glycosylase , provide evidence for an autoregulatory mechanism for transcription .
the cell cycle-dependent transcription factor , e2f-1 , regulate the cyclin -like specie of the dna repair enzyme uracil-dna glycosylase ( udg ) gene in human osteosarcoma ( saos-2 ) cell .
we demonstrate , through the deletion of the human udg promoter sequence , that expression of e2f-1 activate the udg promoter through several e2f site .
the major putative downstream site for e2f , located in the first exon , serve a a target for e2f-1/dp1 complex binding in vitro .
we also provide evidence for the functional relationship between the cyclin-like udg gene product and e2f .
high level of udg expression in a transient transfection assay result in the down-regulation of transcriptional activity through element specific for e2f -mediated transcription .
overexpression of udg in saos 2 cell be observe to delay growth late in g1 phase and transiently arrest these cell from progress into the s phase .
this hypothetical model integrate one mechanism of dna repair with the cell cycle control of gene transcription , likely through e2f .
this implicate e2f a a multifunctional target for protein and enzyme , possibly , responsive to dna damage through the negative effect of udg on e2f -mediated transcriptional activity .
kinetics of nuclear translocation and turnover of the vitamin d receptor in human hl60 leukemia cell and peripheral blood lymphocyte -- coincident rise of dna-relaxing activity in nuclear extract .
high affinity receptor ( vdr ) for 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol ( calcitriol ) be express in hl60 human leukemia cell and in low number in peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) .
hl60 cell , express some characteristic of promyelocytes , can be induce to monocytoid differentiation by calcitriol .
specific nuclear translocation of [3h]calcitriol/vdr be examine after exposure of whole cell to 10 ( -9 ) m/l calcitriol in the presence and absence of a 500-fold excess of unlabeled ligand and subsequent isolation of nucleus .
specific nuclear translocation of [3h]calcitriol/vdr be find to be time dependent reach a maximum of approximately 2100 bind sites/nucleus after 3 h of incubation in hl60 cell , whereas a maximum of approximately 310 bind sites/nucleus be find after 3 h in pbl .
pulse exposure of hl60 to radiolabeled hormone for 3 h follow by culture in medium without serum and calcitriol lead to nuclear retention of approximately 1600 radiolabeled vdr by 8 h and approximately 1000 vdr by 24 h .
radiolabeled vdr disappear from the nuclear compartment with a halflife of approximately 30 min if cell be culture with identical concentration of unlabeled hormone after the pulse ( pulse/chase-experiments ) .
no difference of vdr retention in pulse and pulse/chase-experiments be see in pbl , where vdr halflife be approximately 30 min .
no specific translocation into the nuclear compartment be see when isolate nucleus be incubate in [3h]calcitriol .
radiolabeled hormone/receptor complex of nucleus isolate from cell expose for 3 h to radiolabeled hormone -- in contrast to identical experiment with intact cell -- do not disappear from the nuclear compartment upon incubation of nucleus with identical concentration of the unlabeled compound .
the activity of dna relaxing enzyme ( e.g. topoisomerases i and ii ) in nuclear extract be measure use a pbr 322-relaxation-assay .
enhance overall enzyme activity be find in nuclear extract by 1 h after incubation with calcitriol ( final ethanol concentration 0.0001 % v/v ) in hl60 and pbl .
the enhance activity disappear after 2 h in pbl , whereas it be still enhance by 4 h in hl60 .
no effect be see in ethanol treated control .
we conclude that a specific nuclear translocation mechanism exist for calcitriol in both cell type examine , most likely due to translocation of receptor protein after hormone binding .
translocate hormone/receptor complex compete for a limited number of specific nuclear bind site .
enhance activity of topoisomerases in nuclear extract upon translocation of vdr might reflect interaction of both within the nuclear compartment , thus initiate dna-unwinding , a prerequisite of transcription initiation .
cellular and molecular mechanism of ifn-gamma production induce by il-2 and il-12 in a human nk cell line .
interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) be an important immunoregulatory protein produce predominantly by t cell and large granular lymphocyte ( lgl ) in response to different extracellular signal .
in particular , two interleukin ( il ) , il-2 and il-12 , have be show to be potent inducer of ifn-gamma gene expression in both t cell and lgl .
although it have be report that there be some t cell line that produce ifn-gamma in response to il-2 and il-12 stimulation , there have as yet be no report of a natural killer ( nk ) cell line that respond in a similar manner .
in this report we present evidence that the cell line nk3.3 derive from human nk cell , respond to both il-2 and il-12 , a measure by increase in ifn-gamma and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) cytoplasmic mrna and protein expression .
in addition , when use together il-2 and il-12 synergized in the induction of ifn-gamma and gm-csf and this synergy be attribute to an increase accumulation and stability of the ifn-gamma and gm-csf mrna .
to investigate the signaling pathway involve in the gene induction , five inhibitor , cyclosporin a ( csa ) , transform growth factor-beta , cycloheximide , genistein , and staurosporine a , be use in analyze the effect of il-2 and il-12 on nk3.3 cell .
the result suggest that activation of protein kinase c , but not new protein synthesis , be require for il-2 induction of ifn-gamma and gm-csf cytoplasmic mrna .
in contrast , il-12 induction of ifn-gamma cytoplasmic mrna appear to only partially depend on activation of protein kinase c .
furthermore , both transform growth factor-beta and genistein , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , could suppress il-2 and il-12 signaling but csa be generally inactive .
it also be observe that suppression of cytokine gene expression by these agent be independent of the inhibition of proliferation .
in addition , il-2 but not il-12 induce nuclear factor nf-kappa b and ap1 , and regulation of the nuclear level of these two dna binding protein complex be correlate with ifn-gamma and gm-csf gene expression .
these data indicate that il-2 and il-12 may have distinct signaling pathway lead to the induction of ifn-gamma and gm-csf gene expression , and that the nk3.3 cell line may serve a a novel model for dissect the biochemical and molecular event involve in these pathway .
constitutive activation of different jak tyrosine kinase in human t cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) tax protein or virus-transformed cell .
htlv-1 infection cause an adult t cell leukemia in human .
the viral encode protein tax , be think to play an important role in oncogenesis .
our previous data obtain from a tax transgenic mouse model reveal that tax transform mouse fibroblast but not thymocytes , despite comparable level of tax expression in both tissue .
constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation of a 130-kd protein ( s ) be observe in the tax transformed fibroblast b line and in htlv-1 transformed human lymphoid line , but not in thymocytes from thy-tax transgenic mouse .
phosphotyrosine immunoprecipitation follow by western blot analysis with a set of jak kinase specific antibody , identify p130 a jak2 in the tax transformed mouse fibroblastic cell line and jak3 in htlv-1 transformed human t cell line .
phosphorylation of jak2 in tax transformed cell result from high expression of il-6 .
tyrosine phosphorylation of this protein could also be induce in balb/c3t3 cell use a supernatant from the b line , which be associate with induction of cell proliferation .
both phosphorylation and proliferation be inhibit by il-6 neutralizing antibody .
constitutive phosphorylation of jak kinase may facilitate tumor growth in both htlv-1 infected human t cell and the transgenic mouse model .
mouse deficient for the 55 kd tumor necrosis factor receptor be resistant to endotoxic shock , yet succumb to l. monocytogenes infection .
the multiple biological activity of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) be mediate by two distinct cell surface receptor of 55 kd ( tnfrp55 ) and 75 kd ( tnfrp75 ) .
use gene targeting , we generate a tnfrp55 -deficient mouse strain .
cell from tnfrp55-/-mutant mouse lack expression of tnfrp55 but display normal number of high affinity tnfrp75 molecule .
thymocyte development and lymphocyte population be unaltered , and clonal deletion of potentially self-reactive t cell be not impaired .
however , tnf signaling be largely abolish , a judge by the failure of tnf to induce nf-kappa b in t lymphocyte from tnfrp55 -deficient mouse .
the loss of tnfrp55 function render mouse resistant to lethal dosage of either lipopolysaccharides or s. aureus enterotoxin b .
in contrast , tnfrp55-deficient mouse be severely impaired to clear l. monocytogenes and readily succumb to infection .
thus , the 55 kd tnfr play a decisive role in the host 's defense against microorganism and their pathogenic factor .
t cell priming enhance il-4 gene expression by increase nuclear factor of activate t cell .
the repetitive activation of t cell ( priming ) enhance the expression of many cytokine , such a il-4 , but not others , such a il-2 .
molecular mechanism underlie selective expression of cytokine by t cell remain poorly understand .
here we show that priming of cd4 t cell selectively enhance il-4 expression relative to il-2 expression by a transcriptional mechanism involve nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) protein .
a detect by in vivo footprinting , priming markedly increase the activation-dependent engagement of the p0 and p1 nfat-binding element of the il-4 promoter .
moreover , each proximal p element be essential for optimal il-4 promoter activity .
activate prim cd4 t cell contain more nfat1 and support great nfat -directed transcription than unprimed cd4 t cell , while activator protein 1 binding and activator protein 1 -mediated transcription by both cell type be similar .
increase expression of wild-type nfat1 substantially increase il-4 promoter activity in unprimed cd4 t cell , suggest nfat1 may be limit for il-4 gene expression in this cell type .
furthermore , a truncated form of nfat1 act a a dominant-negative , reduce il-4 promoter activity in prim cd4 t cell and confirm the importance of endogenous nfat to increase il-4 gene expression by effector t cell .
nfat1 appear to be the major nfat family member responsible for the initial increase expression of il-4 by prim cd4 t cell .
surfactant suppress nf-kappa b activation in human monocytic cell .
in addition to biophysical property , pulmonary surfactant have immunomodulatory activity .
we previously demonstrate that both synthetic ( exosurf ) and modify natural surfactant ( survanta ) downregulated endotoxin-stimulated inflammatory c ytokine mrna level and protein product ( tumor necrosis factor-alpha [ tnf ] , interleukin-1-beta [ il-1 ] , interleukin-6 [ il-6 ] ) in human alveolar macrophage .
in this study , we report that both exosurf and survanta suppress tnf mrna and secretion ( 85 +/- 4 % mean percent inhibition +/- sem by exosurf ; 71 +/- 6 % by survanta ) by endotoxin-stimulated thp-1 , a human monocytic cell line .
because surfactant downregulated inflammatory cytokine production similarly in both normal human alveolar macrophage and the thp-1 cell line , we use this cell line to investigate whether surfactant affect transcriptional mechanism .
specifically , we examine nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation because it be crucial in transcriptional regulation of many inflammatory cytokine gene include tnf , il-1 , and il-6 .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay show that both surfactant decrease activation of nf-kappa b .
the presence of both p65 and p50 nf-kappa b component in lp -activated thp-1 cell be confirm by specific antibody induction of supershifts in mobility assay .
these result be the first to suggest that surfactant 's suppressive effect on inflammatory cytokine production may involve transcriptional regulation through inhibition of nf-kappa b activation .
susceptibility to natural killer cell and down regulation of mhc class i expression in adenovirus 12 transform cell be regulate by different e1a domain .
all human adenovirus transform rodent cell in vitro , but only cell transform by serotypes belong to subgroup a ( ad12 ) and b ( ad3 ) be tumorigenic for immunocompetent animal .
in these cell , the expression of mhc-class i antigen be repress and might allow them to escape from recognition by cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) and to develop in tumor .
furthermore , these cell line appear resistant to lysis by natural killer ( nk ) cell .
to determine the e1a domain ( s ) responsible for these property several cell line be create by transform baby rat kidney ( brk ) cell with a set of plasmid express different ad2/ad12 hybrid e1a gene product .
the mhc class 1 gene expression be inhibit in cell express the ad12 13 mrna product and in cell transform with ad2/ad12 hybrid e1a gene product harbor the c-terminal part of the conserve region ( cr ) 3 of ad12 .
susceptibility of these transform cell line to nk cell be determine by cytolytic assay .
the result obtain suggest that two ad12 e1a domain be require to induce resistance of the cell line to nk cell .
il-10 inhibit nuclear factor-kappa b/rel nuclear activity in cd3-stimulated human peripheral t lymphocyte .
il-10 markedly reduce nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b/rel nuclear activity induce in pbmc by stimulation with the anti-cd3 mab okt3 .
the inhibition be exert specifically on the nf-kappa b/rel activation induce by mab okt3 , and not that produce by pma .
a judge by supershifting the dna-protein complex with ab recognize specific component of the nf-kappa b/rel protein family , the p50/p65 ( rel a ) heterodimeric form of nf-kappa b be primarily affect .
the maximal effect be observe at the il-10 concentration of 20 u/ml .
il-10 inhibitory activity be exert on t lymphocyte and be mediate by monocyte .
indeed , monocyte pretreated with il-10 be able so inhibit nf-kappa b nuclear activity in purify t lymphocyte stimulate with okt3 .
soluble factor do not appear to be involve in the mechanism of inhibition .
on the other hand , the up-regulation of cd80 ag , find on monocyte obtain from pbmc incubate with okt3 , be not detect after addition of il-10 , and the anti-cd28 mab clb-cd28/1 restore the nf-kappa b/rel nuclear activity in il-10 -inhibited lymphocyte .
therefore , the nf-kappa b/rel inhibition might be ascribe to a lack of cooperation between accessory cell and t lymphocyte , result from down-regulation of a costimulatory molecule , such a cd80 , produce by il-10 on activate monocyte .
our result demonstrate that il-10 can inhibit the induction of nf-kappa b/rel nuclear activity in cd3-stimulated t lymphocyte .
since inappropriate activation of kappa b-driven gene have a physiopathologic role in a number of disease , such a hiv infection , our finding support the possibility of use this cytokine to suppress an undesirable activation of these transcription factor .
spontaneous occurrence of early region 1a reiteration mutant of type 5 adenovirus in persistently infected human t-lymphocytes .
mutant of type 5 adenovirus ( ad5 ) with reiterate dna sequence in the e1a region appear in a human t-lymphocyte cell line , molt-4 , persistently infect with h5sub304 , a deletion/substitution mutant that have a wild-type phenotype in viral replication .
endonuclease analysis and dna sequencing reveal dna reiteration in each mutant .
in the four representative mutant investigate , the dna reiteration all start within a six-base-pair consensus sequence , g ( or c ) ctgtg , located in the second exon of the e1a region ( at nt 1333 , 1367 , or 1419 ) .
there be not any dna homology between the breakpoints in the second exon and the inserting sequence ( start at nt 532 , 710 , or 792 ) .
northern analysis suggest that the reiterate splicing site of the representative mutant be all use in rna splicing , and the close donor and recipient joint be use most frequently .
these observation imply that during persistent infection ad5 undergo spontaneous mutation by sequence-specific breakage and nonhomologous end-end joining recombination event .
these e1a reiteration mutant could be propagate in hela , a549 , and kb cell ; they be genetically stable ; and they kill cref cell at a strikingly high frequency .
preliminary observation tend to correlate this cref cell killing with the accumulation of the early viral protein and/or viral dna in the infected cell .
this degree of cell damage be not observe in ad5wt or h5sub304 infection of cref cell .
the observe e1a reiteration provide a model to gain insight into understand the evolutionary event of some , if not all , adenovirus type during many year of symbiotic , persistent relationship in human tonsil and adenoid and possibly other lymphoid organ .
identification of bcd , a novel proto-oncogene express in b-cells .
a novel b-cell derived ( bcd ) oncogene have be isolate from the peripheral blood lymphocyte of one b-cell chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) patient use dna transfer and a mouse tumorigenicity assay .
the bcd proto-oncogene be activate by a truncation in the 5' utr .
it predict for two open reading frame ( orfs ) .
orf1 consist of 240 bp that would encode 80 amino acid , while the major orf2 consist of 648 bp capable of cod for 216 amino acid .
predict peptide sequence of orf2 contain a zinc finger domain which show significant homology to gc box binding protein bteb2 and sp1 .
transfection of an expression vector contain orf2 but not full length cdna be able to transform nih3t3 cell and induce tumor in nude mouse .
bcd mrna transcript of < or = 2.6 kb be selectively express in pbl and testis of healthy individual .
within the pbl , bcd gene expression be restricted to cd19+ b-cells and absent from cd14+ monocyte and t-cells .
bcd transcript be detect in all normal pbl sample test but not in several malignant human b-cell line and not in 50 % of b-cells from b-cll patient .
however , stimulation of b-cells from b-cll patient under condition which induce differentiation into plasma cell be associate with induction of bcd gene expression .
the bcd gene may therefore play an important role in b-cell growth and development .
alteration of structural order of human erythrocyte ghost membrane by glucocorticoid and the influence of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist ru 486 .
high-dose pulse glucocorticoid therapy have be use successfully in the clinic in severe pathological condition for about 20 year .
the mode of glucocorticoid action after administration of such megadoses be inexplicable up to now .
it be suppose that some effect may be due to membrane alteration .
in the present in-vitro experiment the effect of dexamethasone , of further glucocorticoid , and of the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist ru 486 , on structural order of human erythrocyte ghost membrane be investigate by determine the steady-state fluorescence anisotropy of diphenylhexatriene ( dph ) .
dexamethasone be find to induce a significant decrease in membrane structural order at concentration of about 10(-6) m in a concentration-dependent manner .
we find a correlation between the uptake of dexamethasone by the ghost membrane and the decrease in the structural order .
the other glucocorticoid test , methylprednisolone and corticosterone , be also effective at concentration of 10(-5) m or great .
we observe no change in membrane structural order with ru 486 up to a concentration of 10(-4) m .
however , simultaneous incubation of ru 486 with dexamethasone cause a distinct interference of ru 486 with dexamethasone .
thus , the glucocorticoid -induced membrane perturbation , the possibility to inhibit it by ru 486 , and the inactivity of the structurally related progesterone , refer to relatively specific bind site for the glucocorticoid in the membrane of erythrocyte ghost .
interleukin 1beta mediate the modulatory effect of monocyte on lncap human prostate cancer cell .
proliferative and secretory response in androgen-sensitive prostate cancer lncap cell be regulate by steroid and peptide hormone and by differentiation-promoting substance .
in the present study , we evaluate whether peripheral blood monocyte that exhibit anti-tumour activity in haematopoietic and solid tumour influence growth and secretion in the lncap cell line .
for this purpose , lncap cell be incubate with monocyte-conditioned medium ( mcm ) , and proliferation as well a expression of androgen receptor ( ar ) and secretion of prostate-specific antigen ( psa ) be assess .
conditioned medium from monocyte reduce proliferation in a dose-dependent manner .
incubation with 40 % mcm cause a 50 % reduction in cell proliferation .
ar protein decrease by 70 % and psa level in supernatant from lncap cell be reduce by approximately 80 % follow treatment with mcm .
we focus on the contribution of two major product of activate monocyte , prostaglandin e2 and interleukin 1beta ( il-1beta ) , to the mcm modulatory action .
lncap cell treat with prostaglandin e2 show neither a reduction in proliferation nor a down-regulation of ar and psa level .
the effect of mcm on cellular proliferation , ar protein and psa secretion be abolish by pretreatment of mcm with a neutralize anti- il-1beta antibody .
in addition , recombinant il-1beta be able to replace mcm for the inhibition of proliferation and down-regulation of ar and psa protein .
lncap cell be show to express the il-1beta receptor type 1 , which transduce il-1beta signal .
our finding reveal that monocyte-derived il-1beta inhibit the proliferation of androgen-responsive prostate tumour cell and reduce ar and psa level .
an interleukin-4-induced transcription factor : il-4 stat .
interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) be an immunomodulatory cytokine secrete by activate t lymphocyte , basophil , and mast cell .
it play an important role in modulate the balance of t helper ( th ) cell subset , favor expansion of the th2 lineage relative to th1 .
imbalance of these t lymphocyte subset have be implicate in immunological disease include allergy , inflammation , and autoimmune disease .
il-4 may mediate it biological effect , at least in part , by activate a tyrosine-phosphorylated dna binding protein .
this protein have now be purify and it encoding gene clone .
examination of the primary amino acid sequence of this protein indicate that it be a member of the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) family of dna binding protein , hereby designate il-4 stat .
study of the inhibitory activity of phosphotyrosine-containing peptide derive from the intracellular domain of the il-4 receptor provide evidence for direct coupling of receptor and transcription factor during the il-4 stat activation cycle .
such observation indicate that il-4 stat have the same functional domain for both receptor coupling and dimerization .
reversal of apoptosis by the leukaemia-associated e2a-hlf chimaeric transcription factor .
the e2a-hlf ( for hepatic leukaemia factor ) fusion gene , form by action of the t(17;19)_(q22;p13) chromosomal translocation , drive the leukaemic transformation of early b-cell precursor , but the mechanism of this activity remain unknown .
here we report that human leukaemia cell carry the translocation t(17;19) rapidly die by apoptosis when program to express a dominant-negative suppressor of the fusion protein e2a-hlf , indicate that the chimaeric oncoprotein probably affect cell survival rather than cell growth .
moreover , when introduce into murine pro-b lymphocyte , the oncogenic e2a-hlf fusion protein reverse both interleukin-3-dependent and p53-mediated apoptosis .
the close homology of the basic region/leucine zipper ( bzip ) dna-binding and dimerization domain of hlf to that of the ces-2 cell-death specification protein of caenorhabditis elegans suggest a model of leukaemogenesis in which e2a-hlf block an early step within an evolutionarily conserve cell-death pathway .
evaluation of the respiratory epithelium of normal and individual with cystic fibrosis for the presence of adenovirus e1a sequence relevant to the use of e1a-_adenovirus vector for gene therapy for the respiratory manifestation of cystic fibrosis .
lung disease associate with disorder such a cystic fibrosis ( cf ) may be amenable to somatic gene therapy in which there be delivery of the normal gene directly to the respiratory epithelium use e1a-_adenovirus ( ad ) type 2- or 5-based vector .
for safety reason , the ad vector be render replication deficient by deletion of the e1a region .
because there be the theoretical possibility of an e1a-_replication-deficient vector replicate a a result of recombination or complementation with ad 2/5 e1a sequence present in the target cell , this study be direct toward evaluate respiratory epithelium of normal and individual with cf for the presence of e1a sequence .
use ad 2/5 e1a-specific primer and the polymerase chain reaction to evaluate dna recover from freshly isolate nasal and bronchial epithelium recover by brushing , e1a sequence be detect in respiratory epithelium of 19 of 91 normal ( 21 % ) .
in the e1a-positive sample , the average of e1a copy number be 55 +/- 18/10(3) recover cell .
in cf individual , 7 of 52 ( 13 % ) have detectable e1a sequence in the respiratory epithelium , with e1a copy number in the positive sample of 80 +/- 21/10(3) recover cell .
these result demonstrate that there be detectable ad 2/5 e1a sequence in the respiratory epithelium of a small percentage of normal and individual with cf .
because of the theoretical potential of such sequence support replication of e1a- ad vector , human gene therapy protocol for cf utilize such vector should consider evaluate study individual for the presence of ad 2/5 e1a sequence in the respiratory epithelium .
inhibition of protein phosphatase by okadaic acid induce ap1 in human t cell .
to examine the role of protein phosphatase in t cell activation , jurkat cell be treat with okadaic acid , an inhibitor of type 1 and 2a phosphatase , and nuclear extract be examine for the presence of ap1 a a measure of early t cell activation .
okadaic acid be find to be a potent inducer of ap1 .
in contrast to phorbol ester such a phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , the induction of ap1 by okadaic acid occur predominantly by transcriptional activation of the jun and fo family of proto-oncogene .
surprisingly , while the addition of phytohemagglutinin far enhance the induction of ap1 , the addition of pma inhibit it .
okadaic acid treatment be find to dramatically increase mrna transcript of the jun family of proto-oncogene include c-jun , jund , and junb and to a less extent the fo family include c-fos and fra-1 .
by comparison , pma be a very inefficient inducer of the jun gene family in jurkat cell .
similar to it effect on the induction of ap1 by okadaic acid , pma inhibit the induction of c-jun mrna by okadaic acid .
transfection of c-jun promoter construct confirm the marked difference between pma and okadaic acid in induce c-jun transcription .
the induction of ap1 by okadaic acid suggest that protein phosphatase 1 and 2a ( pp1 and pp2a ) may be involve in t cell activation a important negative regulator of the transcription factor ap1 .
functional characterization of the murine homolog of the b cell-specific coactivator bob.1/obf.1 .
b cell-specific transcriptional promoter activity mediate by the octamer motif require the oct1 or oct2 protein and additional b cell-restricted cofactor .
one such cofactor , bob.1/obf.1 , be recently isolate from human b cell .
here , we describe the isolation and detailed characterization of the murine homolog .
full-length cdna and genomic clone be isolate , and the gene structure be determine . comparison of the deduce amino acid show 88 % sequence identity between mouse and human bob.1/obf.1 .
the nh2-terminal 126 amino acid of bob.1/obf.1 be both essential and sufficient for interaction with the pou domain of either oct1 or oct2 .
this protein-protein interaction do not require the simultaneous binding of oct protein to dna , and high resolution footprinting of the oct -dna interaction reveal that binding of bob.1/obf.1 to oct1 or oct2 do not alter the interaction with dna .
bob.1/obf.1 can efficiently activate octamer-dependent promoter in fibroblast ; however , it fail to stimulate octamer-dependent enhancer activity .
fusion of subdomains of bob.1/obf.1 with the gal4 dna binding domain reveal that both nh2- and cooh- terminal domain of bob.1/obf.1 contribute to full transactivation function , the cooh-terminal domain be more efficient in this transactivation assay .
consistent with the failure of full-length bob.1/obf.1 to stimulate octamer-dependent enhancer element in non b cell , the gal4 fusion likewise only stimulate from a promoter-proximal position .
a new variant translocation in acute promyelocytic leukaemia : molecular characterization and clinical correlation .
translocation t(15;17)(q22;q21 ) be an acquire clonal cytogenetic change present in almost all case of acute promelocytic leukemia ( apl ) .
the molecular genetic basis of the translocation support it integral role in pathogenesis .
we describe a patient with apl in whom the leukaemic clone be characterize by a true variant of the classical t(15;17) .
the patient whose disease have numerous atypical clinical feature , have t(11;17)(q13;121) .
the chromosome 17 breakpoint be localized to intron 2 of rara by southern blotting , and there be no evidence at the molecular level for rearrangement at pml locus .
these data , along with previous report of rare variant translocation in apl , indicate that while dysregulation of rara by gene fusion may be essential for the apl phenotype , the particular fusion partner may determine clinicopathological aspect , include presentation , response to treatment with all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) , and prognosis .
this heterogeneity suggest that the variant fusion partner of rara in apl encode factor with property both common to and distinct from those of pml .
investigation of these factor promise to shed light on the complex development pathway involve in the regulation of haematopoiesis .
induction of proto-oncogene and cytokine expression in human peripheral blood monocyte and the monocytic cell line thp-1 after stimulation with mycoplasma-derived material mdhm .
mycoplasma fermentans-derived high-molecular-weight material ( mdhm ) be originally describe to induce differentiation of murine thymocytes to cytolytic effector t-cells by stimulate il-6 release from adherent cell .
this study show that human peripheral blood monocyte ( pbmo ) also respond to mdhm with increase in il-1 beta , il-6 and tnf alpha expression , both at the mrna and protein level .
the induce expression of il-1 beta and tnf alpha mrna in the monocytic thp-1 cell line increase as quickly a in primary cell .
in contrast to pbmo , thp-1 and 14 other monocytic/myeloid leukemia-derived cell line do not secrete measurable amount of the cytokine upon treatment with mdhm .
il-1 beta and il-6 gene contain ap-1 binding site a regulatory element , the ap-1 protein be compose of c-jun and c-fos gene product .
in thp-1 cell c-jun mrna expression increase after incubation with mdhm while positive c-fos expression remain unaffected .
although these data suggest ap-1 regulate cytokine mrna expression , result from pbmo be not in accordance with this notion .
in the primary cell mdhm -induced elevation of cytokine mrna level be precede by a downregulation of c-fos expression while positive c-jun expression be not modulate .
c-myc mrna expression , constitutively high in thp-1 cell , be induce in mdhm -stimulated pbmo .
in conclusion , mdhm -stimulated induction of cytokine mrna expression be accompany by different proto-oncogene response in pbmo and thp-1 cell .
these difference may represent different regulatory pathway of the two cell system .
alternatively , these data support the notion that neither ap-1 nor the c-myc protein be involve in the mdhm -induced increase in il-1 beta , il-6 or tnf alpha mrna level .
furthermore , the present result demonstrate clearly that mycoplasma product can have a profound impact on the activation status of eukaryotic cell .
do thyroidectomy , radioactive iodine therapy , or antithyroid drug treatment alter reactivity of patient ' t cell to epitope of thyrotropin receptor in autoimmune thyroid disease ?
the effect of treatment on thyroid antibody production and t cell reactivity to thyroid antigen be study in 15 patient with graf ' disease ( gd ) before and after thyroidectomy , 19 patient with gd before and after radioactive iodine ( rai ) therapy , and 9 patient maintain euthyroid on antithyroid drug ( atd ) .
twenty subject matched for age and sex without known thyroid disease serve a control .
in gd patient , the response of peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) and tsh receptor ( tshr ) -specific t cell line to recombinant human tshr extracellular domain , thyroglobulin , and tshr peptide be examine on the day of surgery or rai therapy ( day 0 ) and also 6-8 week and 3-6 month thereafter .
reactivity to tshr peptide before surgery be heterogeneous and span the entire extracellular domain .
six to 8 week after subtotal thyroidectomy , the number of patient ' pbmc respond to any peptide and the average number of recognize peptide decrease .
a further decrease in the t cell reactivity to tshr peptide be observe 3-6 month after surgery .
the response of pbmc from graf ' patient before rai therapy be less than those in the presurgical group .
six to 8 week after rai therapy , the number of patient respond to any peptide and the average number of recognize peptide increase .
three to 6 month after rai , t cell response to tshr peptide be less than those 6-8 week after rai therapy , but still high than the value on day 0 .
response of pbmc from patient with gd , maintain euthyroid on atd , be low than those before surgery or rai therapy .
the reactivity of t cell line in different group reflect a pattern similar to pbmc after treatment .
tshr antibody and microsomal antibody level decrease after surgery , but increase after rai therapy .
the difference in the number of recognize peptide by patient ' pbmc before rai and surgery may reflect the effect of long term therapy with atd in the patient before rai vs. the short period in patient before surgery .
the decrease t cell reactivity to thyroid antigen after thyroidectomy could be the result of removal of a major part of the thyroid gland or redistribution of suppressor-inducer t cell .
the increase t cell response after rai therapy be probably epitope specific , rather than a response to the whole tshr molecule .
synchronous recognition of peptide 158-176 and 248-263 be important for the development of gd , and the loss of recognition of one of these epitope may be an early sign of immune remission and a predictor of euthyroidism .
immunosuppression by glucocorticoid : inhibition of nf-kappa b activity through induction of i kappa b synthesis [ see comment ]
glucocorticoid be among the most potent anti-inflammatory and immunosuppressive agent .
they inhibit synthesis of almost all known cytokine and of several cell surface molecule require for immune function , but the mechanism underlie this activity have be unclear . here it be show that glucocorticoid be potent inhibitor of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation in mouse and culture cell .
this inhibition be mediate by induction of the i kappa b alpha inhibitory protein , which trap activate nf-kappa b in inactive cytoplasmic complex .
because nf-kappa b activate many immunoregulatory gene in response to pro-inflammatory stimulus , the inhibition of it activity can be a major component of the anti-inflammatory activity of glucocorticoid .
transcriptional regulation of the vacuolar h(+)-atpase b2 subunit gene in differentiate thp-1 cell .
monocyte-macrophage differentiation be use a a model system for study gene regulation of the human vacuolar h(+)-atpase ( v-atpase ) .
we examine mrna level of various v-atpase subunit during differentiation of both native monocyte and the cell line thp-1 , and find that transcriptional and post-transcriptional mechanism could account for increase in cell v-atpase content .
from nuclear runoff experiment , we find that one subunit in particular , the b2 isoform ( mr = 56,000 ) , be amplify primarily by transcriptional mean .
we have begin to examine the structure of the b2 subunit promoter region .
isolation and sequencing of the first exon and 5'-flanking region of this gene reveal a tata-less promoter with a high g + c content .
primer extension and ribonuclease protection analysis indicate a single major transcriptional start site .
we transfected promoter-luciferase reporter plasmid into thp-1 cell to define sequence that mediate transcriptional control during monocyte differentiation .
we find that sequence downstream from the transcriptional start site be sufficient to confer increase expression during thp-1 differentiation .
dnase i footprinting and sequence analysis reveal the existence of multiple ap2 and sp1 binding site in the 5'-untranslated and proximal cod region .
b-cell proliferation and induction of early g1-regulating protein by epstein-barr virus mutant conditional for ebna2 .
infection of primary b-lymphocytes by epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) lead to growth transformation of these b-cells in vitro .
ebv nuclear antigen 2 ( ebna2 ) , one of the first gene express after ebv infection of b-cells , be a transcriptional activator of viral and cellular gene and be essential for the transform potential of the virus .
we generate conditional ebv mutant by express ebna2 a chimeric fusion protein with the hormone binding domain of the estrogen receptor on the genetic background of the virus .
growth transformation of primary normal b-cells by mutant virus result in estrogen -dependent lymphoblastoid cell line express the chimeric ebna2 protein .
in the absence of estrogen about half of the cell enter a quiescent non-proliferative state whereas the others die by apoptosis .
ebna2 be thus require not only for initiation but also for maintenance of transformation .
growth arrest occur at g1 and g2 stage of the cell cycle , indicate that functional ebna2 be require at different restriction point of the cell cycle .
growth arrest be reversible for g1/g0 cell a indicate by the sequential accumulation and modification of cell cycle regulating protein .
ebv induce the same cell cycle regulating protein a polyclonal stimulus in primary b-cells .
these data suggest that ebv be use a common pathway for b-cell activation bypass the requirement for antigen , t-cell signal and growth factor .
hiv-1 nef lead to inhibition or activation of t cell depend on it intracellular localization .
nef of primate lentiviruses be require for viremia and progression to aid in monkey .
negative , positive , and no effect of nef have also be report on viral replication in cell .
to reconcile these observation , we express a hybrid cd8- nef protein in jurkat cell .
two opposite phenotype be find , which depend on the intracellular localization of nef .
express in the cytoplasm or on the cell surface , the chimera inhibit or activate early signaling event from the t cell antigen receptor .
activate jurkat cell die by apoptosis , and only cell with mutate nef gene express truncate nefs survive , which render nef nonfunctional .
these mutation parallel those in other viral strain passaged in vitro .
not only do these positional effect of nef reconcile diverse phenotype of nef and suggest a role for it n-terminal myristylation , but they also explain effect of nef in hiv infection and progression to aid .
overexpression of protein kinase c -zeta stimulate leukemic cell differentiation .
a function for protein kinase c -zeta ( pkc -zeta ) , a member of the phorbol ester nonresponsive atypical protein kinase c subfamily , in modulate differentiation be examine in the leukemic u937 cell .
transfected u937 cell stably overexpressing pkc-zeta display a longer doubling time , low saturation density at confluency , and an increase in adherence to plastic a compare to control cell .
pkc-zeta cell express a more differentiate phenotype a assess by change in morphology , surface antigen expression , and lysosomal enzyme activity and be distinct from parental u937 cell stimulate to differentiate by exposure to phorbol ester .
in contrast to parental u937 cell , pkc-zeta cell constitutively express mrna transcript for c-jun and a low mobility ap-1 binding activity .
thus , pkc-zeta overexpression stimulate a type of phenotypic differentiation that differ significantly from maturation occur upon activation of other pkc subfamily induce by phorbol ester treatment .
increase expression of the c-jun protooncogene and an increase in ap-1 binding activity in pkc-zeta cell provide a potential mechanism for explain the altered differentiation status of this cell .
cd40 , but not lipopolysaccharide and anti-igm stimulation of primary b lymphocyte , lead to a persistent nuclear accumulation of relb .
in this study we analyze the effect of cd40 stimulation on the activity and nuclear appearance of rel/nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) factor in primary murine b lymphocyte .
we show that triggering of cd40 signaling pathway ( s ) by cd40 ligand express on l cell lead to strong activation of an nf-kappab-controlled beta-globin reporter gene in primary b lymphocyte from transgenic mouse .
analysis of nuclear translocation of individual member of rel protein after cd40 induction of primary b cell show a strong and long-lasting accumulation of relb and , less pronounced , of c-rel .
lp stimulation do not give rise to a persistent nuclear accumulation of relb and c-rel , whereas nuclear c-rel , but not relb , accumulate after b cell receptor stimulation .
cd40 induce not only nuclear translocation but also de novo synthesis of relb rna and protein .
s107 plasmacytoma cell , which express cd40 but be defective for the nuclear appearance of p50/p65-nf-kappab , do not express relb after cd40 stimulation .
in s107 cell stably transfected with relb gene , stimulation of nuclear relb translocation by cd40 be observe .
these result indicate that stimulation of cd40 signaling pathway exert a long-lasting stimulatory effect on both the transcription and nuclear translocation of relb .
since lp and anti-igm be unable to activate relb , cd40 appear to trigger a special program of gene expression involve in the proliferation and/or differentiation of b lymphocyte .
alpha-tocopherol inhibit agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion to culture human endothelial cell .
antioxidant have be propose to be anti-atherosclerotic agent ; however , the mechanism underlie their beneficial effect be poorly understand .
we have examine the effect of alpha-tocopherol ( alpha-tcp ) on one cellular event in atherosclerotic plaque development , monocyte adhesion to stimulate endothelial cell ( ec ) .
human umbilical vein ec be pretreated with alpha-tcp before stimulation with known agonist of monocyte adhesion : il-1 ( 10 ng/ml ) , lp ( 10 ng/ml ) , thrombin ( 30 u/ml ) , or pma ( 10 nm ) .
agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion , but not basal adhesion , be inhibit in a time- and concentration-dependent manner by alpha-tcp .
the ic50 of alpha-tcp on an il-1 -induced response be 45 microm .
the inhibition correlate with a decrease in steady state level of e-selectin mrna and cell surface expression of e-selectin which be consistent with the ability of a monoclonal antibody to e-selectin to inhibit monocytic cell adhesion in this system .
probucol ( 50 microm ) and n-acetylcysteine ( 20 mm ) also inhibit agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion ; whereas , several other antioxidant have no significant effect .
protein kinase c ( pkc ) do not appear to play a role in the alpha-tcp effect since no suppression of phosphorylation of pkc substrate be observe .
activation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b be report to be necessary but not sufficient for e-selectin expression in ec .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay fail to show an alpha-tcp -induced decrease in activation of this transcription factor after cytokine stimulation .
it have be hypothesize that alpha-tcp act a an anti-atherosclerotic molecule by inhibit generation of oxidize ldl -- a putative trigger molecule in the atherosclerotic process .
our result point to a novel alternative mechanism of action of alpha-tcp .
relief of cyclin a gene transcriptional inhibition during activation of human primary t lymphocyte via cd2 and cd28 adhesion molecule .
cyclin a transcription be cell cycle regulated and induce by cell proliferative signal .
to understand the mechanism underline in this regulation in normal human cell , we have analyse in vivo protein-dna interaction at the cyclin a locus in primary t lymphocyte .
stimulation of purify t lymphocyte by a combination of monoclonal antibody direct at cd2 and cd28 adhesion molecule give rise to a long lasting proliferation in the absence of accessory cell .
cyclin a be observe after 4 day of costimulation with anti cd2 + cd28 whereas stimulation by anti cd2 or anti cd28 alone be not effective .
in vivo genomic dm footprinting reveal upstream of the major transcription initiation site , the presence of at least three protein binding site , two of which be constitutively occupy .
they bind in vitro respectively atf-1 and nf-y protein .
the third site be occupy in quiescent cell or in cell stimulate by anti cd2 or anti cd28 alone .
the mitogenic combination of anti cd2 + anti cd28 release the footprint a cell be commit to proliferation .
consistent with thesis result , nuclear extract prepare from quiescent cell form a specific complex with this element , whereas extract prepare from cell treat with anti cd2 + anti cd28 fail to do so after cell enter a proliferative state .
glucocorticoid receptor in normal leukocyte : effect of age , gender , season , and plasma cortisol concentration .
we measure glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) in mononuclear leukocyte ( mnl ) isolate from peripheral blood of 145 apparently healthy volunteer ( 86 men and 59 woman ) .
an age-related decrease in the number of gr be suggest between subject young than 20 year and elderly subject ; there be no apparent seasonal variation in gr .
gender difference in the number of gr be not significant , although woman show slightly few gr .
eight patient with dermatomyositis/polymyositis be examine to determine whether the number of gr in mnl could be down-regulated by their cognate ligand .
the number of gr in mnl from these patient be significantly decrease one month after the initiation of prednisolone therapy .
however , in normal subject , the gr in mnl do not demonstrate circadian variation , in contrast to concentration of plasma cortisol .
transient pseudohypoaldosteronism in obstructive renal disease with transient reduction of lymphocytic aldosterone receptor .
result in two affected infant .
we report two patient with transient pseudohypoaldosteronism due to obstructive renal disease .
both patient present with a salt-losing episode simulate adrenal insufficiency .
in one patient , transient reduction of aldosterone receptor could be document , while in the second patient the clinical and biochemical parameter be consistent with transient pseudohypoaldosteronism .
aldosterone receptor be normal in both patient
comparison of primary sensitization of naive human t cell to varicella-zoster virus peptide by dendritic cell in vitro with response elicit in vivo by varicella vaccination .
dendritic cell ( dc ) be potent apc during primary and secondary immune response .
the first objective of this study be to determine whether human dc mediate in vitro sensitization of naive cd4+ t cell to epitope of the immediate early 62 ( ie62 ) protein of varicella zoster virus ( vzv ) .
the induction of cd4+ t cell proliferative response to eight synthetic peptide represent amino acid sequence of the vzv ie62 protein be assess use t cell and dc from vzv -susceptible donor .
the second objective be to compare in vitro response of naive t cell with response to vzv peptide induce in vivo after immunization with varicella vaccine .
t cell proliferation be induce by three peptide , p1 , p4 , and p7 , in 71-100 % of the donor test before and after vaccination use dc a apc .
monocyte be effective apc for vzv peptide only after immunization .
two peptide , p2 and p8 , induce naive t cell proliferation less effectively and be also less immunogenic for t cell from vaccinate or naturally immune donor .
t cell recognition of specific peptide be concordant between naive , dc -mediated response , and postvaccine response use monocyte a apc in 69 % of comparison ( p = 0.05 ; chi2 ) ; the predictive value of a positive response to an ie62 peptide before immunization for t cell sensitization in vivo be 82 % .
these observation indicate that primary t cell response detect in vitro use dc a apc may be useful to characterize the potential immunogenicity of viral protein epitope in vivo .
stat-related transcription factor be constitutively activate in peripheral blood cell from acute leukemia patient .
a signal transduction pathway activate by many cytokine have recently be elaborate .
the jak kinase and the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) factor have be find to be essential component .
in this report , we describe the presence of constitutively activate stat factor in peripheral blood cell from patient with acute leukemia .
we use oligonucleotide probe from the beta-casein and irf-1 gene promoter and the isre probe to detect stat protein in nuclear extract from acute leukemia cell in bandshift assay .
specific dna protein complex formation be observe with the probe from the beta-casein and irf-1 gene promoter , but not with the isre oligonucleotide probe , when cell extract from acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( all ) and acute myeloid leukemia ( aml ) be investigate .
we use nonradioactive oligonucleotides a competitor to show the specificity of the complex formation .
specific antibody direct against the individual stat protein be use in supershift experiment .
stat5- and stat1- related factor be detect in all and stat1- , stat3- , and stat5- related protein be present in nuclear cell extract from aml .
since the cell be not treat with cytokine before the nuclear protein be extract , we conclude that these factor be constitutively activate in vivo .
it be likely that the constitutive activation of stat protein be a part of the event of leukemogenesis .
reversible differentiation of human monoblastic leukemia u937 cell by ml-9 , an inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase .
human monoblastic leukemia u937 cell be induce to differentiate into monocyte and macrophage by various agent .
we have show that 1-(5-chloronaphthalene-1-sulfonyl)-1h-hexahydro-1,4-diazepine hydrochloride ( ml-9 ) , an inhibitor of myosin light chain kinase , induce differentiation of monocytoid leukemia cell line u937 and thp-1 but not of myeloblastic leukemic ml-1 cell or erythroleukemia k562 cell .
in the present study , we far analyze the effect of ml-9 in comparison with that of 1 alpha,_25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( vd3 ) a typical inducer of monocytic differentiation .
ml-9 induce nitroblue tetrazolium ( nbt ) -reducing activity of u937 cell more rapidly than vd3 : this differentiation marker be induce significantly after incubation with ml-9 and vd3 for 4 hour and 1 day , respectively .
ml-9 also induce alpha-naphthyl acetate esterase ( anae ) activity , another monocytic differentiation marker , more rapidly than vd3 .
the maximum level of these marker induce by ml-9 be comparable to those induce by vd3 , but after removal of ml-9 from the medium by wash the cell , the expression of thesis marker decrease within 4 hour and reach basal level in 1 day , indicate that ml-9 's induction of expression of differentiation-associated phenotype be reversible .
the growth inhibition of u937 cell by ml-9 be also reversible .
similar effect be observe in another line of human monoblastic cell , thp-1 .
ml-9 have little or no effect on the morphology of u937 cell but increase the expression of monocyte-macrophage lineage-associated surface antigen , cd14 , to some extent .
irreversible terminal differentiation induce by vd3 be associate with down regulation of the expression of c-myc and upregulation of the expression of c-fos and c-jun , but ml-9 do not affect the expression of these oncogene appreciably .
ml-9 -induced differentiation be also reversible when the cell be culture with culture with ml-9 plus an anti-cancer drug such a 1-beta-d-arabino-furanosylcytosine or daunomycin .
it become irreversible , however , upon simultaneous treatment with dexamethasone and transform growth factor-beta 1 ( tgf-beta 1 ) , which do not induce differentiation of u937 cell but cause growth arrest of the cell in the g0/g1 phase of the cell cycle .
these result suggest that ml-9 should be useful for study the mechanism of monocytic differentiation .
replication of type 1 human immunodeficiency virus contain linker substitution mutation in the -201 to -130 region of the long terminal repeat .
in previous transfection analysis use the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene system , we determine that linker substitution ( l ) mutation between -201 and -130 ( relative to the transcription start site ) of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) cause moderate decrease in ltr transcriptional activity in a t-cell line ( s.l.zeichner , j.y.h. kim , and j.c.alwine , j.virol.65 : 2436-2444 , 1991 ) .
in order to confirm the significance of this region in the context of viral replication , we construct several of these l mutation ( -201 to -_184 , -183 to -166 , -165 to -148 , and -148 to -130 ) in provirus and prepare viral stock by cocultivation of transfected rd cell with cemx174 cell .
in addition , two mutation between -93 and -76 and between -75 and -58 be utilize , since they affect the nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) - and sp1 -binding site and be expect to diminish viral replication .
our result suggest that while transfection analysis offer an adequate approximation of the effect of the l mutation , the analysis of viral replication use a mutant viral stock present a more accurate picture , which be sometimes at variance with the transfection result .
three mutant ( -201/-184 nxs , -165/-148 nxs , and -147/-130 nxs ) have effect on viral replication that be much more severe than the effect predict from their performance in transfection analysis , and the effect of two l mutation ( -201/-184 nxs and -183/-166 nxs ) be not predict by their effect in transfection .
in addition , we observe cell type-specific permissiveness to replication of some mutant virus .
in the cell type test , the l mutation indicate an apparent requirement not only for the intact nf-kappa b and sp1-binding site but also for several region between -201 and -130 not previously associate with viral infectivity .
kappa b-specific dna binding protein be differentially inhibit by enhancer mutation and biological oxidation .
kappa b ( kappa b ) enhancer binding protein isolate from the nucleus of activate human t cell produce two distinct nucleoprotein complex when incubate with the kappa b element from the interleukin-2 receptor-alpha ( il-2r alpha ) gene .
these two dna-protein complex be compose of at least four host protein ( p50 , p55 , p75 , p85 ) , each of which share structural similarity with the v-rel oncogene product .
nuclear expression of these protein be induce with distinctly biphasic kinetics follow phorbol ester activation of t cell ( p55/p75 early and p50/p85 late ) .
dna-protein crosslinking study have reveal that the more rapidly migrate b2 complex contain both p50 and p55 while the more slowly migrate b1 complex be compose of p50 , p55 , p75 , and p85 .
site-directed mutagenesis of the wild-type il-2r alpha kappa b enhancer ( ggggaatctccc ) have reveal that the binding of p50 and p55 ( b2 complex ) be particularly sensitive to alteration of the 5' triplet of deoxyguanosine residue .
in contrast , formation of the b1 complex , reflect the binding of p75 and p85 , critically depend upon the more 3' sequence of this enhancer element .
dna binding by all four of these rel-related factor be block by selective chemical modification of lysine and arginine residue , suggest that both of these basic amino acid be require for bind to the kappa b element .
similarly , covalent modification of free sulfhydryl group with diamide ( reversible ) or n-ethylmaleimide ( irreversible ) result in a complete loss of dna binding activity .
in contrast , mild oxidation with glucose oxidase selectively inhibit p75 and p85 binding while not block p50 and p55 interaction .
these finding suggest that reduce cysteine thiols play an important role in the dna binding activity of this family of rel-related transcription factor .
regulation of the vitellogenin gene b1 promoter after transfer into hepatocytes in primary culture .
the estrogen-dependent and tissue-specific regulation of the xenopus laevis vitellogenin gene b1 promoter have be study by lipid-mediated dna transfer into xenopus hepatocytes in primary culture .
hepatocytes achieve an efficient hormonal control of this promoter through a functional interaction between the estrogen responsive element and a promoter proximal region upstream of the tata box , which be characterize by a high density of bind site for the transcription factor ctf/nf-1 , c/ebp and hnf3 .
dna accessibility to restriction enzyme within the chromosomal copy of the vitellogenin gene b1 promoter show that the estrogen responsive unit and the promoter proximal region be sensitive to digestion in uninduced and estrogen -induced hepatocytes but not in erythrocyte nucleus .
together , these finding support the notion that chromatin configuration as well a the interplay of promoter element mediate proper hormone-dependent and tissue-specific expression of the b1 vitellogenin gene .
synergism between the cd3 antigen- and cd2 antigen- derived signal .
exploration at the level of induction of dna-binding protein and characterization of the inhibitory activity of cyclosporine .
we have demonstrate earlier that the crosslinkage of the cd3/tcr complex with the cd2 antigen result in the proliferation of normal human t cell .
the effect of this synergism be perceptible at the level of induction of the il-2 gene , a process critical for t cell growth .
to far understand the molecular and nuclear basis for this synergism , we have explore the induction of dna-binding protein in highly purify normal human t cell signal via the cd3 and/or cd2 protein .
the effect of transmembrane signaling of t cell with ionomycin , and/or sn-1 , 2 dioctanoyl glycerol , be also determine .
the emergence of nuclear binding protein be investigate use interleukin-2 sequence specific oligonucleotide probe in the electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
our study demonstrate for the first time that cd3 antigen-derived signal and cd2 antigen -derived signal be synergistic in induce the emergence of transcription factor that bind to the nf-at1 , ap-1 , and nf-kb site located in the promoter/enhancer region of the il-2 gene .
moreover , cyclosporine , at concentration readily accomplish in clinical practice , be find to inhibit the emergence of these dna-binding protein in normal human t cell signal via cell surface protein implicate in antigen-dependent t cell activation and in t cell stimulate by mobilization of cellular calcium and activation of protein kinase c .
role of gata-1 in proliferation and differentiation of definitive erythroid and megakaryocytic cell in vivo .
to elucidate the contribution of gata-1 to definitive hematopoiesis in vivo , we have examine adult mouse that be render genetically defective in gata-1 synthesis ( takahashi et al , j biol chem 272 : 12611 , 1997 ) .
because the gata-1 gene be located on the x chromosome , which be randomly inactivate in every cell , heterozygous female can bear either an active wild-type or mutant ( refer to a gata-1.05 ) gata-1 allele , consequently lead to variable anemic severity .
these heterozygous mutant mouse usually develop normally , but they begin to die after 5 month .
these affect animal display marked splenomegaly , anemia , and thrombocytopenia .
proerythroblasts and megakaryocyte massively accumulate in the spleen of the heterozygote , and we show that the neomycin resistance gene ( which be the positive selection marker in e cell ) be express profusely in the abnormally abundant cell generate in the gata-1.05 mutant female .
we also observe hematopoiesis outside of the bone marrow in the affect mutant mouse .
these data suggest that a small number of gata-1.05 mutant hematopoietic progenitor cell begin to proliferate vigorously during early adulthood , but because the cell be unable to terminally differentiate , this lead to progenitor proliferation in the spleen and consequently death .
thus , gata-1 play important in vivo role for direct definitive hematopoietic progenitor to differentiate along both the erythroid and megakaryocytic pathway .
the gata-1 heterozygous mutant mouse show a phenotype that be analogous to human myelodysplastic syndrome and thus may serve a a useful model for this disorder .
prevalence of aneuploidy , overexpressed er , and overexpressed egfr in random breast aspirate of woman at high and low risk for breast cancer .
breast tissue biomarkers which accurately predict breast cancer development within a 10 year period in high risk woman be need but currently not available .
we initiate this study to determine 1 ) the prevalence of one or more breast tissue abnormality in a group of woman at high risk for breast cancer , and 2 ) if the prevalence of biomarker abnormality be great in high risk than in low risk woman .
eligible high risk woman be those with a first degree relative with breast cancer , prior breast cancer , or precancerous mastopathy .
low risk woman be those without these or other major identifiable risk factor .
ductal cell be obtain via random fine needle aspiration and cytologically classify .
biomarkers include dna ploidy , estrogen receptor ( er ) , and epidermal growth factor receptor ( egfr ) .
the prevalence of dna aneuploidy be 30 % , overexpression of er 10 % , and overexpression of egfr 35 % , in the 206 high risk woman whose median 10 year gail risk ( project probability ) of develop breast cancer be 4.5 % .
the prevalence of aneuploidy and overexpressed egfr be significantly high in the high risk woman than in the 25 low risk control ( p < 0.002 ) , whose median 10 year gail risk be 0.7 % .
the difference in the prevalence of er overexpression between high and low risk group be not statistically significant ( p = 0.095 ) .
this may be due to the low prevalence of overexpressed er and the small number of control .
a significant difference be note in the prevalence of one or more abnormal biomarkers between the high risk and low risk woman ( p < 0.001 ) .
a large prospective trial be need to determine if one or more of these biomarkers , be predictive of breast cancer development .
regulation of i kappa b alpha and p105 in monocyte and macrophage persistently infect with human immunodeficiency virus .
the mechanism regulate human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) persistence in human monocyte /macrophages be partially understand .
persistent hiv infection of u937 monocytic cell result in nf-kappa b activation .
whether virus-induced nf-kappa b activation be a mechanism that favor continuous viral replication in macrophage remain unknown .
to far delineate the molecular mechanism involve in the activation of nf-kappa b in hiv -infected monocyte and macrophage , we have focus on the regulation of the i kappa b molecule .
first , we show that persistent hiv infection result in the activation of nf-kappa b not only in monocytic cell but also in macrophage .
in hiv -infected cell , i kappa b alpha protein level be decrease secondary to enhance protein degradation .
this parallel the increase i kappa b alpha synthesis secondary to increase i kappa b alpha gene transcription , i.e. , increase rna and transcriptional activity of it promoter-enhancer .
another protein with i kappa b function , p105 , be also modify in hiv -infected cell : p105 and p50 steady-state protein level be increase a a result of increase synthesis and proteolytic processing of p105 .
transcriptional activity of p105 be also increase in infected cell and be also mediate by nf-kappa b through a specific kappa b motif .
these result demonstrate the existence of a triple autoregulatory loop in monocyte and macrophage involve hiv , p105 and p50 , and mad3 , with the end result of persistent nf-kappa b activation and viral persistence .
furthermore , persistent hiv infection of monocyte and macrophage provide a useful model with which to study concomitant modification of different i kappa b molecule .
proliferation index a a prognostic marker in breast cancer .
background .
the proliferative activity of tumor have be extensively investigate with different approach , among which the use of the monoclonal antibody ki-67 represent an easy and reliable mean of assess cell proliferation .
in this study , the proliferative activity of 129 primary breast cancer be investigate , and the result be related to prognosis .
method .
tumor sample , obtain from 129 patient who undergo surgery between january 1987 and december 1988 , be process for stain by an immunohistochemical procedure ( avidin-biotin complex ) .
the median time of observation be 42 month ( range , 31-55 month ) .
life-table analysis ( mantel-cox ) be use to assess the probability of disease-free survival ( dfs ) and overall survival ( o ) .
result .
tumor with high ki-67 proliferation index ( > 20 % ) be associate with a high 4-year probability of relapse of disease ( 55.3 % versus 79.1 % ; p = 0.003 ) and death ( 71 % versus 95.6 % ; p = 0.00005 ) when compare with tumor with low ki-67 value .
in addition , this proliferative parameter maintain it prognostic significance when the patient be stratify accord to lymph node involvement , menopausal status , and nuclear estrogen receptor content .
conclusion .
tumor proliferative activity a evaluate by the monoclonal antibody ki-67 seem to be an effective indicator of prognosis in breast cancer for dfs and o .
characterization of the human platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 promoter : identification of a gata-2 binding element require for optimal transcriptional activity .
platelet/endothelial cell adhesion molecule-1 ( pecam-1 ) be a 130-kd member of the ig gene superfamily that be express on platelet , endothelial cell , and certain leukocyte subset .
to examine the factor control vascular-specific expression of pecam-1 , we clone the 5'-flanking region of the pecam-1 gene and analyze it transcriptional activity .
5'-rapid amplification of cdna end ( 5'-race ) analysis show that transcription initiation occur at several closely spaced nearby site originate approximately 204 bp upstream from the translation start site .
analysis of the sequence immediately upstream from the transcription initiation site ( ti ) show no canonical tata or caat element , however an initiator element commonly find in tata -less promoter encompass the ti .
5'-serially truncate pecam-1 promoter segment clone in front of a luciferase reporter drive transcription in both a lineage- and orientation-specific manner .
putative cis-acting control element present within a 300-bp core promoter include two ets site , an sp1 site , tandem e-box domain , two gata-associated site ( caccc ) , an ap-2 binding site , and a gata element at -24 .
mutational analysis show that optimal transcriptional activity require the gata sequence at position -24 , and gel-shift assay far show that the gata-2 transcription factor , but not gata-1 , bind to this region of the pecam-1 promoter .
understand the cis- and trans act factor that regulate the tissue-specific expression of pecam-1 should increase our understanding of the mechanism by which vascular-specific gene expression be achieve .
cytokine -modulating activity of tepoxalin , a new potential antirheumatic .
tepoxalin be a new dual cyclooxygenase/5-lipoxygenase anti-inflammatory compound currently under clinical investigation .
it have be show to possess anti-inflammatory activity in a variety of animal model and more recently to inhibit il-2 induced signal transduction .
the current study be conduct to evaluate the cytokine modulating activity of tepoxalin and the role of iron in these effect .
in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) stimulate with okt3/pma , tepoxalin inhibit lymphocyte proliferation with an ic50 of 6 microm .
additionally , it inhibit the production of ltb4 ( ic50 = 0.5 microm ) and the cytokine il-2 , il-6 and tnf alpha ( ic50 = 10-12 microm ) .
cytotoxicity be not demonstrate at these concentration .
add-back experiment with either cytokine ( il-2 or il-6 ) , ltb4 or conditioned medium fail to restore the proliferative response in the presence of tepoxalin .
however , the concurrent addition of iron ( in the form of ferrous or ferric chloride and other iron salt ) reverse the inhibition of proliferation cause by tepoxalin .
tepoxalin also inhibit the activation of nf kappa b , a transcription factor which act on several cytokine gene .
tepoxalin 's effect on nf kappa b be also reverse by the addition of iron salt .
these data suggest that the action of tepoxalin to inhibit proliferation in pbmc may be at least in part due to it ability to reduce the amount of available iron result in decrease activation of nf kappa b and subsequent inhibition of cytokine production .
interleukin 6-induced differentiation of a human b cell line into igm-secreting plasma cell be mediate by c-fos .
the role of the protooncogene c-fos in interleukin ( il ) 6 -induced b cell differentiation be assess .
treatment of skw 6.4 cell with il 6 induce a transient and early stimulation of c-fos sense mrna expression .
the effect appear within 30 min and return to basal level after 2 h .
the addition of antisense oligonucleotides to c-fos significantly inhibit il 6 -induced igm production by skw 6.4 cell ( p less than 0.001 ) , whereas control oligonucleotides have no inhibitory effect .
these result indicate that activation of c-fos be involve in il 6 -induced differentiation of skw 6.4 cell into igm-secreting cell .
[ correlation of lymphocytic infiltration of tumor tissue with the hormonal and metabolic state in patient with breast cancer ]
lymphocyte infiltration of tumor be study vis-a-vis hormone metabolic status , tumor tissue hormone sensitivity and tobacco smoking , in 113 breast cancer patient , aged 25-77 .
on the average , no correlation be establish between degree of lymphocyte infiltration in breast tumor and age and menopause onset .
in smoking menopausal patient , lymphocyte infiltration be find to be high than in non-smokers ( p < 0.05 ) .
there be a direct correlation between the rate of lymphocyte infiltration and the level of progesterone receptor in tumor .
some subgroup display a direct correlation between infiltration and sex-binding globulin , cholesterol , luteinizing hormone in blood , and lean body mass .
it be match by an inverse correlation between lymphocyte infiltration and blood-thyroid hormone concentration , urine catecholamine and free cortisol excretion and fat/lean body mass ratio .
consider the abovesaid as well a the lymphocyte ability to perform the dual function of immunocytes and hormonocytes , it be suggest that the result may be use in both the study of lymphocyte infiltration and research in mean of it control .
ubiquitin-mediated processing of nf-kappa b transcriptional activator precursor p105 .
reconstitution of a cell-free system and identification of the ubiquitin-carrier protein , e2 , and a novel ubiquitin-protein ligase , e3 , involve in conjugation .
in most case , the transcriptional factor nf-kappa b be a heterodimer consist of two subunit , p50 and p65 , which be encode by two distinct gene of the rel family .
p50 be translate a a precursor of 105 kda .
the c-terminal domain of the precursor be rapidly degrade , form the mature p50 subunit consist of the n-terminal region of the molecule .
the mechanism of generation of p50 be not know .
it have be suggest that the ubiquitin -proteasome system be involve in the process ; however , the specific enzyme involve and the mechanism of limited proteolysis , in which half of the molecule be spar , have be obscure .
palombella and colleague ( palombella , v.j. , rando , o.j. , goldberg , a.l. , and maniatis , t. ( 1994 ) cell 78 , 773-785 ) have show that ubiquitin be require for the processing in a cell-free system of a truncate , artificially construct , 60-kda precursor .
they have also show that proteasome inhibitor block the processing both in vitro and in vivo .
in this study , we demonstrate reconstitution of a cell-free processing system and demonstrate directly that : ( a ) the ubiquitin -proteasome system be involve in processing of the intact p105 precursor , ( b ) conjugation of ubiquitin to the precursor be an essential intermediate step in the processing , ( c ) the recently discover novel specie of the ubiquitin -carrier protein , e2-f1 , that be involve in the conjugation and degradation of p53 , be also require for the limited processing of the p105 precursor , and ( d ) a novel , approximately 320-kda specie of ubiquitin -protein ligase , be involve in the process .
this novel enzyme be distinct from e6-ap , the p53 -conjugating ligase , and from e3 alpha , the " n-end rule " ligase .
seminoma in a postmenopausal woman with a y;15 translocation in peripheral blood lymphocyte and a t(y;15)/45,x turner mosaic pattern in skin fibroblast .
we report an unusual case of a 55 year old japanese woman with a seminoma but relatively normal menses .
the patient be a phenotypic female with late onset menarche ( 18 year of age ) , who be amenorrhoeic for the first year , follow by menses of one to three day ' slight flow with dysmenorrhoea , but an otherwise normal menstrual history .
a typical seminoma be remove from the left adnexal region and an immature testis be identify separately a an associate right adnexal mass .
repeated karyotypic study on peripheral blood lymphocyte culture show only 46,x,-y,t(y;15)(q12;p13) .
cytogenetic examination of the patient 's young brother , who have father three healthy child , show an identical karyotype .
mosaicism of 46,x,-y,t(y;15)(q12;p13)/45,x cell line be find in skin sample from the patient 's elbow and genital region , although there be no clinical stigma of turner syndrome .
an androgen receptor binding assay of culture genital skin fibroblast be negative .
molecular analysis use southern blot hybridisation , pcr , and direct dna sequencing show that neither the patient nor her brother have a detectable deletion or other abnormality of y chromosome sequence , include the sry ( sex determining region of the y chromosome ) gene sequence .
these finding suggest that turner mosaicism of the 45,x cell line may have contribute to this atypical presentation in an xy female , although we can not exclude abnormality of other gene related to sex differentiation .
every enhancer work with every promoter for all the combination test : could new regulatory pathway evolve by enhancer shuffling ?
the promoter and enhancer of cell type-specific gene be often conserve in evolution , and hence one might expect that a given enhancer have evolve to work best with it own promoter .
while this expectation may be realize in some case , we have not find evidence for it .
a total of 27 combination of different promoter and enhancer be test by transfection into culture cell .
we find that the relative efficiency of the enhancer be approximately the same , irrespective of the type of promoter use , i.e. , there be no strong preference for any given enhancer/ promoter combination .
notably , we do not see particularly strong transcription when the immunoglobulin kappa enhancer ( or the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer ) be use to activate a kappa gene promoter .
we propose that a generally permissive enhancer/ promoter interaction be of evolutionary benefit for high eukaryote : by enhancer shuffling , gene could be easily bring under a new type of inducibility/cell type specificity .
anaphylatoxins c5a and c3a induce nuclear factor kappab activation in human peripheral blood monocyte .
the anaphylatoxins c5a and c3a be involve in the regulation of cytokine production .
in this study the capability of c5a and c3a to induce transcription factor activation be examine .
c5a and c3a stimulation of human peripheral blood monocyte result in nuclear expression of a dna binding activity with specificity to the kappab sequence .
the p50 and p65 protein , constituent of the prototypic nuclear factor kappab , be identify a component of the dna-protein complex by anti-peptide antibody in gel supershift assay .
c5a induced kappab binding activity be detect 15 min after agonist stimulation , peak at 30-40 min , and remain detectable at 2 h .
binding to kappab sequence be accompany by an initial decrease and subsequent increase in the cytoplasmic ikappabalpha level , a detect by western blotting use an anti- ikappabalpha antibody .
pertussis toxin treatment markedly decrease kappab binding activity induce by both c5a and c3a , whereas cholera toxin display no inhibitory effect .
neither of the two toxin affect kappab binding activity induce by tnfalpha in the same cell .
these result imply a potential role of the anaphylatoxins c5a and c3a in regulate leukocyte gene expression through g protein-coupled transcription factor activation .
defective translocation of protein kinase c in multidrug-resistant hl-60 cell confer a reversible loss of phorbol ester-induced monocytic differentiation .
previous study have demonstrate that human hl-60 myeloid leukemia cell differentiate in response to phorbol ester .
this event be associate with induction of the c-jun early response gene and appearance of a monocytic phenotype .
the present study have examine the effect of vincristine-selected , multidrug resistance on 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) -induced hl-60 cell differentiation .
the result demonstrate that multidrug-resistant hl-60 cell , designate hl-60/vinc , fail to respond to tpa with an increase in c-jun transcript or other phenotypic characteristic of monocytic differentiation .
by contrast , treatment of hl-60/vinc cell with okadaic acid , an inhibitor of serine /threonine protein phosphatase , induce c-jun transcription , growth arrest , and expression of the c-fms gene .
study be also perform with an hl-60/vinc revertant ( hl-60/vinc/r ) line that have regain partial sensitivity to vincristine .
the finding that hl-60/vinc/r cell respond to tpa with induction of a monocytic phenotype , but not c-jun expression , suggest that c-jun induction be not obligatory for monocytic differentiation .
other study far demonstrate that the jun-b and fra-1 gene be induce by tpa in both hl-60/vinc and hl-60/vinc/r cell , whereas c-fos expression be attenuate in the hl-60/vinc line .
since tpa activate protein kinase c ( pkc ) , we examine translocation of pkc from the cytosol to the membrane fraction .
although hl-60 and hl-60/vinc/r cell demonstrate translocation of pkc activity , this subcellular redistribution be undetectable in hl-60/vinc cell .
activity of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family with associated phosphorylation of c-jun y-peptide be markedly diminish in tpa -treated hl-60/vinc cell , but not in response to okadaic acid .
take together , these finding suggest that vincristine resistance confer insensitivity to tpa -induced differentiation and can include defect in pkc -mediated signaling event and induction of jun/fos early response gene expression .
the role of jun and fo gene family member in 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induce hemopoietic differentiation .
terminal differentiation of the leukemic cell line u-937 and hl-60 by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate be accompany by marked change in gene expression .
in this study , we demonstrate that the expression of jun and fo gene family member be induce with variable kinetics during 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate induce differentiation , with c-jun expression best paralleling differentiation .
the generation of ap-1 complex , a measure by dna binding activity , closely parallel morphological differentiation .
furthermore , the ability of these complex to regulate gene expression be demonstrate by increase transcription from an ap-1 drive reporter construct and marked increase in the expression of endogenous ap-1 regulated gene .
differentiation assay use water soluble phorbol ester reveal that differentiation become irreversible soon after ap-1 appear .
this tight correlation between c-jun expression , the generation of ap-1 activity , and differentiation suggest a critical role for this gene and transcriptional complex during this process .
quantification of vitamin d receptor mrna by competitive polymerase chain reaction in pbmc : lack of correspondence with common allelic variant .
it have be recently claim that polymorphism for the vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) influence several aspect of calcium and bone metabolism .
to evaluate the physiologic plausibility of these claim , we compare the abundance of the vdr mrna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmcs ) between different vdr genotype use a quantitative reverse transcribe polymerase chain reaction-based method .
the method be base on the coamplification of vdr cdna and an internal standard consist of known concentration of a human vdr cdna mutate at a bglii restriction site ; the interassay coefficient of variation be 11 % .
to validate the method , we make use of early receptor binding study indicate that normal human monocyte and activate , but not rest , lymphocyte express the vdr .
the concentration of the vdr mrna be 10(-8) to 10(-7) g/g of total rna in cell-sorted monocyte and in in vitro activate lymphocyte , but only 10(-12) g/g of total mrna in rest lymphocyte , establish that the vdr mrna determine by our method in pbmcs be due to constitutive expression in monocyte .
follow an initial genotype screening of 85 normal volunteer by polymerase chain reaction or restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis , 14 individual with the bb genotype , 12 with the bb genotype , and 12 with the bb genotype be select .
the concentration of the vdr mrna , correct for the number of monocyte , be similar among the three genotype group , a be the other variable examine : serum calcitriol , serum osteocalcin , and vertebral and hip bone density .
we conclude that vdr polymorphism do not affect the abundance of the vdr mrna .
the role of cellular transcription factor e2f in the regulation of cdc2 mrna expression and cell cycle control of human hematopoietic cell .
cdc2 mrna transcript be detect in immature bone marrow cell and become undetectable along with differentiation .
peripheral blood resting cell do not express cdc2 mrna , but it be induce in t-lymphocytes when the cell reentered the cell cycle in response to specific mitogen .
in contrast , cdc2 mrna could not be induce in granulocyte and monocyte even after the culture with the appropriate stimulant .
in order to investigate the mechanism of the regulation of cdc2 mrna expression in hematopoietic cell , we isolate the 5'-flanking sequence of the cdc2 gene and find the putative e2f binding site at the position of nucleotide -124 to -117 .
the binding of e2f at this region be detect by a gel-retardation assay and dnasei footprinting in phytohemagglutinin -stimulated t-lymphocytes , which be coincident with the expression of cdc2 mrna .
e2f binding be not observe in both granulocyte and monocyte .
transient chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay reveal that the region contain e2f binding site have a strong promoter activity , and introduction of the mutation at the e2f binding site result in a significant loss of the activity .
e2f-1 and dp-1 mrna be not detectable in granulocyte , monocyte and rest t-lymphocytes but be induce after the mitogenic stimulation of t-lymphocytes .
the induction of e2f activity precede the appearance of cdc2 mrna , which be consistent with the role of e2f in the regulation of cdc2 mrna expression .
these result suggest that cdc2 mrna expression be related to the cell cycling of normal human hematopoietic cell and that e2f play some role in the regulation of it expression .
characterization of an immediate-early gene induce in adherent monocyte that encode i kappa b -like activity .
we have clone a group of cdna represent mrna that be rapidly induce follow adherence of human monocyte .
one of the induce transcript ( mad-3 ) encode a protein of 317 amino acid with one domain contain five tandem repeat of the cdc10/ankyrin motif , which be 60 % similar ( 46 % identical ) to the ankyrin repeat region of the precursor of nf-kappa b /kbf1 p50 .
the c-terminus have a putative protein kinase c phosphorylation site .
in vitro translate mad-3 protein be find to specifically inhibit the dna-binding activity of the p50/p65 nf-kappa b complex but not that of the p50/p50 kbf1 factor or of other dna-binding protein .
the mad-3 cdna encode an i kappa b-like protein that be likely to be involve in regulation of transcriptional response to nf-kappa b , include adhesion-dependent pathway of monocyte activation .
human tumor necrosis factor alpha gene regulation in phorbol ester stimulate t and b cell line .
the minimal region of the human tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) gene promoter necessary for it transcriptional induction by phorbol ester ( pma ) in human t and b lymphocyte cell line have be localized between -52 and +89 nucleotide ( nt ) relative to the gene 's transcriptional start site .
comparison of these sequence to those require to mediate virus or lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) induction of the gene reveal significant difference , and thus , the sequence requirement for pma induction be distinct from those that mediate induction by virus or lp .
although three site in the tnf-alpha promoter ( kappa 1 , kappa 2 , and kappa 3 ) specifically bind the transcription factor nf-kappa b in lymphoid nuclear extract , tnf-alpha mrna induction by pma do not correlate with nf-kappa b binding activity display by different t and b cell line .
moreover , kappa 1 - kappa 3 can each be delete from the tnf-alpha promoter with little effect on the gene 's inducibility by pma .
therefore , tnf-alpha mrna induction by pma , like it induction by virus and lp , be not primarily mediate by nf-kappa b , but rather be mediate through other sequence and protein factor .
surprisingly , multimers of kappa 1 - kappa 3 can confer pma inducibility on a heterologous promoter in a b ( raji ) , but not a t ( hut78 ) cell line .
however they be not functional on a truncate tnf-alpha promoter , indicate that promoter context and cell type specificity influence the pma inducible function of these nf-kappa b binding site .
simultaneous activation of ig and oct-2 synthesis and reduction of surface mhc class ii expression by il-6 .
terminal differentiation of b cell to plasma cell in vivo be characterize by secretion of ig and extinction of mhc class ii expression on the cell surface .
we show that il-6 signaling lead to marked increase in the synthesis and secretion of ig in clonal human b cell line and newly isolate polyclonal b lymphocyte in vitro .
the il-6-induced cell resemble plasma cell in ultrastructure and in reduce expression of surface mhc class ii .
enhance ig synthesis be a result of coordinate transcriptional activation of ig gene without promoter or isotype specificity , and differential accumulation of the mrna encode the secrete form of ig heavy chain .
it be saturable and subject to negative control when il-6 stimulation be prolonged .
coordinate with temporal change in ig synthesis , the dna-binding activity and the synthesis of the b cell-enriched transcription factor oct-2 be regulate .
thus , differentiation of b cell with il-6 in vitro recapitulate the hallmark of terminal b differentiation in vivo ; oct-2 may have a role in this process .
a mammalian histone deacetylase related to the yeast transcriptional regulator rpd3p [ see comment ]
trapoxin be a microbially derive cyclotetrapeptide that inhibit histone deacetylation in vivo and cause mammalian cell to arrest in the cell cycle .
a trapoxin affinity matrix be use to isolate two nuclear protein that copurified with histone deacetylase activity .
both protein be identify by peptide microsequencing , and a complementary dna encode the histone deacetylase catalytic subunit ( hd1 ) be clone from a human jurkat t cell library .
a the predict protein be very similar to the yeast transcriptional regulator rpd3p , these result support a role for histone deacetylase a a key regulator of eukaryotic transcription .
redox signal and nf-kappab activation in t cell .
accumulating data from a number of laboratory have recently indicate that the response of transcription factor nf-kappab to alteration in the redox homeostasis of cell may play an important role in modulate immune function .
the activation of nf-kappab have be recognize to regulate a number of gene necessary for normal t cell response include il-2 , il-6 , il-8 , and several t cell surface receptor .
diminished nf-kappab activity have be show to occur in t cell with aging , suggest that impaired activation of nf-kappab might occur during cellular senescence .
in addition , aberrancy in nf-kappab activity have be implicate in the immunopathogenesis of disease involve immune or inflammatory process such a atherosclerosis and hiv-1 infection .
the role of h2o2 and other reactive oxygen specie ( ro ) a an integratory secondary messenger for divergent t cell signal have be complicate by the fact that various t cell line and peripheral blood t cell differ markedly in the level of nf-kappab activation induce by oxidant stress .
additionally , proposed pathway of nf-kappab activation have be base on indirect evidence provide by experiment which use antioxidant to inhibit active nf-kappab formation .
far , complete activation of t cell require at least two signal , one that stimulate an increase in intracellular calcium and one that stimulate enzymatic process include kinase .
similarly , substantial evidence indicate that full activation of nf-kappab require dual signal .
the ability of h2o2 or other ro to induce t cell signal and functional response by these two mechanism be review and the specific response of nf-kappab to redox change in t cell be examine .
data be also present to suggest that the redox regulation in nf-kappab activation may be relevant to immune-related disease and to aging .
a novel heterodimerization partner for thyroid hormone receptor .
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor .
retinoid-like receptor play a central role in hormonal response by form heterodimers with other nuclear hormone receptor .
in this study we have identify the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( ppar ) a a new thyroid hormone receptor ( thr ) auxiliary nuclear protein , heterodimerizing with thr in solution .
although these heterodimers do not recognize a classical thyroid hormone response element ( tre ) characterize by direct repeat separate by four nucleotide ( dr+4 ) , ppar behave a a dominant negative regulator of thyroid hormone ( th ) action .
however , a th -dependent positive effect be elicit by selective interaction of the thr beta- ppar but not the thr alpha- ppar heterodimer with a novel tre ( dr+2 ) .
the critical region of thr beta be map to 3 amino acid in the distal box of the dna binding domain .
hence , ppar can positively or negatively influence th action depend on tre structure and thr isotype .
nf-kappa b activity in t cell stably express the tax protein of human t cell lymphotropic virus type i .
the effect of constitutive tax expression on the interaction of nf-kappa b with it recognition sequence and on nf-kappa b -dependent gene expression be examine in t lymphoid jurkat cell line ( 19d and 9j ) stably transform with a tax expression vector .
tax expressing t cell line contain a constitutive level of nf-kappa b binding activity , detectable by mobility shift assay and uv cross-linking use a palindromic nf-kappa b probe homologous to the interferon beta prdii site .
in jurkat and nc2.10 induction with phorbol ester result in the appearance of new dna binding protein of 85 , 75 , and 54 kda , whereas in tax expressing cell the 85-kda protein and a 92-kda dna binding protein be constitutively induce .
expression of tax protein in 19d and 9j result in transcription of the endogenous nf-kappa b -dependent granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor gene and increase basal level expression of transfected nf-kappa b -regulated promoter .
nonetheless transcription of both the endogenous and the transfected gene be inducible by pma treatment .
tax expression in jurkat t cell may alter the stoichiometry of nf-kappa b dna binding protein and thus change the expression of nf-kappa b -regulated promoter .
late gene expression from the epstein-barr virus bclf1 and bfrf3 promoter do not require dna replication in ci .
late gene expression follow and be dependent upon lytic replication of the viral genome .
although experimental evidence be lacking , lytic viral dna replication be believe to remove modification or bind factor from the genome which serve to repress late gene expression during latency or the early lytic cycle .
we have develop a reporter assay to begin characterize the mechanism that regulate late gene expression in epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) .
in this model system , the activity of late promoter-reporter fusion be measure follow transient transfection into tissue culture cell express ebv during different stage of the lytic cycle .
this system faithfully recapitulate late expression pattern from the endogenous virus , implicate specific cis-active sequence in the control of late gene expression .
in addition , these promoter respond only indirectly to the viral immediate-early transactivator , zebra .
this indirect response be mediate by other viral or virally induce activity downstream of zebra in the lytic cascade .
in this system , late gene expression be sensitive to inhibitor of the viral dna polymerase such a phosphonoacetic acid , although the reporter lack a eukaryotic origin of replication and be not replicate under the assay condition .
thus , replication of the transcriptional template be not a prerequisite for expression with late kinetics , a finding inconsistent with the current model which posit a cis-active relationship between lytic ebv dna replication and late gene expression .
rather , analysis of this system have reveal a trans relationship between late gene expression and viral dna replication and highlight the indirect and complex link between these two event .
epstein-barr virus bind to cd21 activate the initial viral promoter via nf-kappab induction .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , an oncogenic human herpesvirus , bind to and infect normal human b lymphocyte via cd21 , the cr2 complement receptor .
study of the mechanism that enable ebv to infect nonactivated , noncycling b cell provide compelling evidence for a sequence of event in which ebv bind to cd21 on purify rest human b cell rapidly activate the nf-kappab transcription factor , which , in turn , bind to and mediate transcriptional activation of wp , the initial viral latent gene promoter .
thus , ebv bind to it cellular receptor on rest b cell trigger an nf-kappab -dependent intracellular signaling pathway which be require for infection .
two distinct signalling pathway be involve in the control of the biphasic junb transcription induce by interleukin-6 in the b cell hybridoma 7td1 .
we have measure the level of junb mrna in the b hybridoma cell line 7td1 , under interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) stimulation .
il-6 increase junb mrna in a biphasic fashion .
the first early-induced peak be transient and likely correspond to the well document typical junb mrna , stimulate in response to numerous growth factor , include il-6 .
at variance , the second peak which have never be report previously , last several hour .
a a consequence of it effect on junb mrna , il-6 stimulate , in a biphasic fashion , the nuclear accumulation of the junb protein .
in this study , we demonstrate that il-6 regulation occur exclusively at the transcriptional level and that the bimodal increase of junb mrna and junb protein can be account for by a biphasic stimulation of junb transcription .
furthermore , our data point to two major difference between the mechanism of control of the early and the late il-6 -induced junb transcription wave .
first , cycloheximide strongly potentiate the transcription of the second wave , whereas it fail to affect the early-induced burst .
second , tyrphostin , a tyrosine kinase inhibitor , impair the expression of the first but not the second junb mrna peak .
conversely , genistein , another tyrosine kinase inhibitor , totally abolish the expression of the second peak of junb mrna whereas it do not affect the expression of the first peak .
altogether these data indicate that , in 7td1 cell , il-6 control junb transcription in a biphasic fashion by mean of two separate transduction pathway .
vitamin d receptor : no evidence for allele-specific mrna stability in cell which be heterozygous for the taq i restriction enzyme polymorphism .
allelic variation of the vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) gene have be associate with the risk of develop prostate cancer in men and osteoporosis in postmenopausal woman .
three rflps ( taqi , apai , bsmi ) define two common haplotype : bat and bat .
none of these polymorphism change the translate protein .
since sequence variation in the 3' utr of vdr have be link to the different haplotype , investigator have propose that the stability of vdr mrna be influence by allelic variation .
indirect evidence suggest that allele t be less stable than allele t .
in this study , we use a rt-pcr based approach to compare the stability of the big t and small t allele in normal heterozygous lymphocyte and the heterozygous cell line nb4 ( myeloid leukemia ) and pc-3 and du 145 ( prostate cancer ) .
in all three case , we do not find a significant difference in stability .
interestingly , we consistently observe 30 % less rt-pcr product derive from the small t allele mrna in steady state , a finding which also speak against a high stability of the small t allele mrna .
these result indicate a variation in transcriptional regulation rather than mrna stability between the allele .
we hypothesize that an unknown gene or gene in linkage with the polymorphism be ( be ) responsible for the relationship between risk of prostate cancer and vdr polymorphism .
enhance differentiation of hl-60 leukemia cell to macrophage induce by ciprofibrate .
ciprofibrate , an hypolipidaemic peroxisome proliferator , induce differentiation of hl-60 cell .
the effect be greatly potentiate by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate at a concentration where neither phorbol ester nor ciprofibrate alone have any effect on these cell .
a occur for hl-60 cell differentiation induce by high phorbol ester concentration , the ciprofibrate -induced phorbol ester -dependent differentiation of hl-60 cell proceed through the monocytic/macrophage pathway and induce the phosphorylation of protein with similar molecular weight suggest that increase protein kinase c activity may be involve in the effect .
the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( pparalpha ) transcription factor be express in hl-60 cell , but no change be observe in it expression upon hl-60 cell differentiation .
induction of icam-1 and lfa-3 by tax1 of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 and mechanism of down-regulation of icam-1 or lfa-1 in adult-t-cell-leukemia cell line .
the present study be undertake to determine the role of htlv-i taxi in the up-regulation of icam-i and lfa-3 in human t cell transform with htlv-i and the mechanism of down-regulation of icam-i and lfa-i in atl-derived cell line .
induction of taxi in a human t-cell line jurkat carry the taxi gene under the metallothionein promoter lead to increase in mrna and surface expression of icam-i .
the response of lfa-3 to taxi induction be , on the other hand , relatively slow and weak , and might be indirect .
transactivation of the icam-i promoter by taxi be far show by co-transfection of a cat reporter construct with the icam-i promoter and a plasmid express taxi .
the mechanism of down-regulation of icam-i or lfa-i in 4 atl cell line be next examine .
icam-i mrna be quite low in mt-i , but no genomic change be find .
the cat reporter with the icam-i promoter be inactive in mt-i .
finally , combined treatment of mt-i with 5-azacytidine and ifn-gamma induce re-expression of icam-i .
collectively , ( a ) transcriptional factor ( s ) necessary for expression of icam-i gene may be repress in mt-i through dna methylation .
three other atl cell line ( tl-omi , h582 , hut102 ) be find to have little mrna for the lfa-i beta chain ( cd18 ) .
h582 and hut102 be also negative for the lfa-i alpha chain ( cdiia ) mrna .
no genomic change be find , and a cat reporter gene with the cd18 promoter be inactive in the 3 of them , again suggest lack of ( a ) transcriptional factor ( s ) necessary for cd18 expression .
transcription factor in immune-mediated disease .
a large amount of detailed information about the intracellular protein regulate nf-kappa b activation and the cellular response to nf-kappa b activation have emerge recently .
several small molecule , an antisense oligonucleotide , and gene therapeutic agent that inhibit nf-kappa b activation have be describe .
despite this , there be still significant gap in our understanding of this process and it consequence .
in contrast , the characterization of transcription factor selectively regulate cytokine production by cd4+ t cell subset be at a very early stage .
three interact protein have recently be show to contribute to subset-restricted expression of the il-4 gene .
there be other element regulate il-4 gene expression , however , and the relative importance of these recently identify protein have yet to be determine .
constitutive expression c-fos , c-jun , and nf kappa b mrna be in nucleated fetal blood cell and up-regulation of c-fos and c-jun with anti-cd3 stimulation .
fetal and neonatal lymphocyte be relatively resistant to activation and cytokine production when stimulate either via their t-cell antigen receptor or lectin .
the molecular mechanism ( s ) responsible for this phenomenon have not be clearly elucidate .
we have hypothesize that such defect in fetal/neonatal t-cell activation may be due to lack of expression of the transcriptional regulatory element require for t-cell activation .
we use reverse transcriptase -polymerase chain reaction to examine both fetal and term neonatal cord blood for mrna expression of three transcription factor implicate in t-cell activation : c-jun , c-fos , and nf kappa b ( p50 subunit ) .
we demonstrate that mrna for all three of these regulatory factor be express in fetal blood cell by the 27th week of gestation and in term cord blood .
activation of term infant cord blood mononuclear cell with anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody result in up-regulation of both c-jun and c-fos mrna within 15 min of stimulation .
however , secretion of il-2 by anti-cd3-stimulated cord blood mononuclear cell be still blunt compare with control cell from adult .
we conclude that fetal nucleated blood cell constitutively express important gene for cytokine regulation and be able to increase intracellular accumulation of the mrna for these factor in response to anti-cd3 stimulation .
thus , qualitative difference in the capacity to regulate these factor could not be show in fetal blood cell .
quantitative experiment compare binding of these transcription factor to the il-2 promoter be currently under investigation .
inhibition of nf-kappa b by sodium salicylate and aspirin [ see comment ]
the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be critical for the inducible expression of multiple cellular and viral gene involve in inflammation and infection include interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) , il-6 , and adhesion molecule .
the anti-inflammatory drug sodium salicylate and aspirin inhibit the activation of nf-kappa b , which far explain the mechanism of action of these drug .
this inhibition prevent the degradation of the nf-kappa b inhibitor , i kappa b , and therefore nf-kappa b be retain in the cytosol .
sodium salicylate and aspirin also inhibit nf-kappa b -dependent transcription from the ig kappa enhancer and the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) long terminal repeat ( ltr ) in transfected t cell .
glucocorticoid -induced apoptosis of human leukemic cell be cause by the repressive function of the glucocorticoid receptor .
induction of apoptosis in lymphocyte , which may account for the therapeutic effect of glucocorticoid in various disease include leukemia , depend on the glucocorticoid receptor .
however , the event lead from the activate receptor to cell lysis be not understand .
a prevail hypothesis postulate induction of so-called ' lysis gene ' by the activate receptor .
in this study , we show that an activation-deficient glucocorticoid receptor mutant be as effective a the wild-type receptor in repression of ap-1 activity , inhibition of interleukin-2 production , inhibition of c-myc expression and induction of apoptosis .
furthermore , we show that retinoic acid can also induce apoptosis in these cell through the retinoic acid receptor , whose repressive function but not target site specificity , be similar to those of the glucocorticoid receptor .
therefore , the primary effect of the receptor in glucocorticoid -mediated apoptosis correlate with transcriptional repression rather than activation and could be mediate by interference with other transcription factor require for cell survival .
in vivo footprint analysis of the hla-dra gene promoter : cell-specific interaction at the octamer site and up-regulation of x box binding by interferon gamma .
analysis of the major histocompatibility complex class ii gene promoter dra have previously identify at least five cis-acting region require for maximal expression .
we have examine the dra promoter for protein-dna interaction in the intact cell , which may mediate transcriptional activation .
use in vivo genomic footprinting we identify interaction in b-cell line at the octamer site and the y , x1 , and x2 box .
class ii antigen express t-cell line maintain contact identical to b-cell line , while class ii-negative t-cell line exhibit no interaction .
in lymphoid cell line , the octamer site be occupy and require for maximal expression .
this be most likely due to the presence of the lymphoid-specific otf-2 factor .
in contrast , the class ii-positive nonlymphoid glioblastoma cell line do not exhibit interaction at the octamer site despite the presence of the ubiquitous otf-1 factor and an open bind site .
thus , the dra promoter discriminate against otf-1 activation at the level of dna binding in the glioblastoma line .
interferon gamma induce class ii expression in this glioblastoma cell line and , in parallel , up-regulates x1 and x2 box protein-dna interaction , while all other interaction remain unchanged .
these result suggest that interferon gamma function on a poise promoter by alter weak , nonproductive interaction at the x box to strong interaction .
these finding provide direct in vivo evidence to strongly suggest that the modulation of x1 and x2 interaction be an important constituent of the interferon gamma induction pathway .
a regulatory element in the human interleukin 2 gene promoter be a bind site for the zinc finger protein sp1 and egr-1 .
activation of the interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene after antigen recognition be a critical event for t cell proliferation and effector function .
prior study have identify several transcription factor that contribute to the activity of the il-2 promoter in stimulate t lymphocyte .
here we describe a novel regulatory element within the il-2 promoter located immediately upstream of the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) domain .
this region ( term the zinc finger protein binding region ( zip ) ) serve a bind site for two differently regulate zinc finger protein : the constitutively express transcription factor sp1 and the inducible early growth response protein egr-1 .
in unstimulated cell which do not secrete il-2 , only sp1 bind to this region , while in stimulate il-2 secreting cell the inducible egr-1 protein recognize this element .
in jurkat t cell , the zip site serve a an activator for il-2 gene expression , and a combination of zip and nfat binding site be require for maximal il-2 promoter activity .
these result suggest a critical role of the zip site for il-2 promoter activity .
erp , a new member of the ets transcription factor/oncoprotein family : clone , characterization , and differential expression during b-lymphocyte development .
the ets gene family encode a group of protein which function a transcription factor under physiological condition and , if aberrantly express , can cause cellular transformation .
we have recently identify two regulatory element in the murine immunoglobulin heavy-chain ( igh ) enhancer , pi and microb , which exhibit striking similarity to bind site for ets-related protein .
to identify ets-related transcriptional regulator express in pre-b lymphocyte that may interact with either the pi or the microb site , we have use a pcr approach with degenerate oligonucleotides encode conserve sequence in all member of the ets family .
we have clone the gene for a new ets-related transcription factor , erp ( ets-related protein ) , from the murine pre-b cell line basc 6c2 and from mouse lung tissue .
the erp protein contain a region of high homology with the ets dna-binding domain common to all member of the ets transcription factor/oncoprotein family .
three additional small region show homology to the elk-1 and sap-1 gene , a subgroup of the ets gene family that interact with the serum response factor .
full-length erp express only negligible dna-binding activity by itself .
removal of the carboxy terminus enable erp to interact with a variety of ets-binding site include the e74 site , the igh enhancer pi site , and the lck promoter ets site , suggest a carboxy-terminal negative regulatory domain .
at least three erp -related transcript be express in a variety of tissue .
however , within the b-cell lineage , erp be highly express primarily at early stage of b-lymphocyte development , and expression decline drastically upon b-cell maturation , correlate with the enhancer activity of the igh pi site .
these data suggest that erp might play a role in b-cell development and in igh gene regulation .
heterogeneity of clonal development in chronic myeloproliferative disorder .
recent report have suggest a previously unexpected variability in the expression of the dominant neoplastic clone in myeloproliferative disorder ( mpd ) .
we evaluate 49 female patient with mpd and informative at the x-linked androgen receptor ( ar ) locus to establish the x chromosome inactivation pattern of hemopoietic cell .
whereas in chronic myelogenous leukemia ( cml ) the granulocyte ( pmn ) be uniformly of monoclonal origin , a striking heterogeneity of clonal development be find in pmn from patient with other mpd , with up to 50 % of them express a polyclonal pattern of x inactivation .
gangliosides suppress tumor necrosis factor production in human monocyte .
both normal and malignant cell contain gangliosides a important cell membrane constituent that , after be shed , may influence cell of the immune system .
we have study the impact of gangliosides on the expression of tnf in blood monocyte and in the monocytic cell line mono mac 6 .
although under standard culture condition , bovine brain gangliosides ( 100 micrograms/ml ) suppress lps-stimulated tnf production 5-fold in pbmc and 10-fold in mono mac 6 cell , suppression be more efficient under serum-free condition .
look at highly purify gangliosides , gd3 , gd1a , gm3 , gm2 , and gm1 be all effective in reduce tnf production in pbmc , and in mono mac 6 by factor 10 to 50 .
the suppressive activity be lose in molecule , lack the sugar moiety or the lipid moiety .
gangliosides appear to act at an early step of activation in that tnf transcript be reduce and the mobilization of the nuclear factor kappa b be block .
furthermore , in time kinetics , gangliosides be effective for up to 30 min after addition of lp , but not thereafter .
however , the expression of the cd14 ag , a receptor molecule for lps-lps binding protein complex , be unaffected by gangliosides .
finally , when use staphylococcus aureus or platelet activating factor a a stimulus , gangliosides be able to suppress tnf production in mono mac 6 cell by factor 5 to 10 , as well .
on the other hand , phorbol ester -induced production of o2- be similar in cell treat with and without gangliosides .
take together , our data demonstrate that tnf gene expression in monocyte induce by different type of stimulus can be block by gangliosides at an early step of signal transduction .
aly , a context-dependent coactivator of lef-1 and aml-1 , be require for tcralpha enhancer function .
lef-1 be a transcription factor that participate in the regulation of the t-cell receptor alpha ( tcr alpha ) enhancer by facilitate the assembly of multiple protein into a high order nucleoprotein complex .
the function of lef-1 be dependent , in part , on the hmg domain that induce a sharp bend in the dna helix , and on an activation domain that stimulate transcription only in a specific context of other enhancer-binding protein .
with the aim of gain insight into the function of context-dependent activation domain , we clone aly , a novel lef-1 -interacting protein .
aly be a ubiquitously express , nuclear protein that specifically associate with the activation domain of lef-1 and aml-1 ( cbf alpha2 , pebp2 alpha ( b ) , which be another protein component of the tcr alpha enhancer complex .
in addition , aly can increase dna binding by both lef-1 and aml protein .
overexpression of aly stimulate the activity of the tcr alpha enhancer complex reconstitute in transfected nonlymphoid hela cell , whereas down-regulation of aly by anti-sense oligonucleotides virtually eliminate tcr alpha enhancer activity in t cell .
similar to lef-1 , aly can stimulate transcription in the context of the tcr alpha enhancer but apparently not when tether to dna through an heterologous dna-binding domain .
we propose that aly mediate context-dependent transcriptional activation by facilitate the functional collaboration of multiple protein in the tcr alpha enhancer complex .
cellular redox status influence both cytotoxic and nf-kappa b activation in natural killer cell .
the role of cellular redox status in both cytotoxic activity and nf-kappa b activation in natural killer ( nk ) cell be investigate .
the result indicate that stimulation of nk cell , either freshly isolate from peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) or long-term culture nk clone , with specific cell target result in an increase binding activity of nf-kappa b and ap-1 transcription factor measure by gel retardation .
pretreatment of nk cell with the antioxidant pyrrolidine dithiocarbarmate ( pdtc ) lead to the inhibition of nf-kappa b activation but the ap-1 binding to dna be superinduced .
the inhibition of nf-kappa b by pdtc parallel with an inhibition of spontaneous cytotoxicity mediate by nk cell .
moreover , the inhibitor of serine protease , n-alpha-tosyl-l-lysine chloromethyl ketone and n-alpha-tosyl-l-phenylalanine chloromethyl ketone , also block the cytolytic activity of nk cell against the sensitive target k562 .
in contrast , nk activity be not affect by pretreatment of the effector cell with the proteasome inhibitor n-acetyl-leu-leu-norleucinal which selectively inhibit nf-kappa b activation .
altogether , these result support the hypothesis that the activation of nk cell involve transcriptional and post-transcriptional event , and that reactive intermediate may play an important role in the molecular process related with the generation of a cytotoxic response by nk cell .
p130 , p107 , and prb be differentially regulate in proliferate cell and during cell cycle arrest by alpha-interferon .
we have determine how the phosphorylation of the retinoblastoma family ( prb , p107 , and p130 ) be govern in individual cell cycle phase of daudi b-cells during cell cycle exit trigger by alpha-interferon ( alpha-ifn ) .
alpha-ifn cause dephosphorylation of prb and loss of p130 phosphorylated form 3 .
however , the change in p130 phosphorylation in response to alpha-ifn occur before dephosphorylation of prb be complete because loss of p130 form 3 occur throughout the cell cycle prior to complete arrest in g1 , whereas prb be dephosphorylated only in g1 .
in contrast , p107 be dephosphorylated and be then deplete from cell a they exit the cell cycle .
p130 , predominantly in form 1 , and hypophosphorylated prb bind an e2f dna binding site ; p130 complex e2f-4 , whereas prb bind both e2f-4 and e2f-1 .
the phosphorylated form of e2f-4 that bind to the e2f dna site be different from hyperphosphorylated e2f-4 , which predominate in primary hemopoietic cell in g0 .
we conclude that although cell cycle arrest induce by alpha-ifn may be mediate in part by formation of a complex contain p130 and e2f-4 , alpha-ifn do not induce hyperphosphorylation of e2f-4 , which characterize primary hemopoietic cell in g0 .
functional role of in vivo footprinted dna motif within an alpha-globin enhancer .
erythroid lineage and developmental stage specificity .
transcriptional regulation of the human alpha-like globin gene , embryonic zeta 2 and adult alpha , during erythroid development be mediate by a distal enhancer , hs-40 .
previous protein-dna binding study have show that hs-40 consist of multiple nuclear factor binding motif that be occupy in vivo in an erythroid lineage- and developmental stage- specific manner .
we have systematically analyze the functional role of these factor binding motif of hs-40 by site-directed mutagenesis and transient expression assay in erythroid cell culture .
three of these hs-40 enhancer motif , 5'nf-e2/ap1 , gt ii , and gata-1(c) , positively regulate the zeta 2-globin promoter activity in embryonic/fetal erythroid k562 cell and the adult alpha -globin promoter activity in adult erythroid mel cell .
on the other hand , the 3'nf-e2/ap1 motif be able to exert both positive and negative regulatory effect on the zeta 2-globin promoter activity in k562 cell , and this dual function appear to be modulate through differential binding of the ubiquitous ap1 factor and the erythroid-enriched nf-e2 factor .
mutation in the gata-1(d) motif , which exhibit an adult erythroid-specific genomic footprint , decrease the hs-40 enhancer function in dimethyl sulfoxide-induced mel cell but not in k562 cell .
these study have define the regulatory role of the different hs-40 motif .
the remarkable correlation between genomic footprinting data and the mutagenesis result also suggest that the erythroid lineage- and developmental stage- specific regulation of human alpha-like globin promoter be indeed modulate by stable binding of specific nuclear factor in vivo .
signal and nuclear factor that regulate the expression of interleukin-4 and interleukin-5 gene in helper t cell .
mouse thymoma line el-4 cell produce cytokine such a interleukin ( il ) -2 , il-3 , il-4 , il-10 , and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor in response to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) .
el-4 cell also produce low level of il-5 when stimulate by pma alone ; however , camp greatly augment pma -dependent il-5 production .
a transient transfection assay reveal that two signal , pma and camp , be require for optimal activation of the il-5 promoter .
in contrast , camp almost completely inhibit the pma -dependent activation of the endogenous il-2 gene , as well a the transfected il-2 promoter .
these result indicate that the il-5 gene be positively regulate by camp in a manner opposite to that for the il-2 gene .
one of the nuclear factor ( nfs ) that regulate the response of the il-5 promoter to camp and pma have property similar to nf for activate t cell .
the p sequence of the il-4 gene , define a a responsive element for pma and calcium ionophore ( a23187 ) , share sequence similarity with the nf kappa b and the nf-activated t cell binding site .
we attempt to determine whether nf(p) , a nuclear factor specific for the p sequence , be related to nf-kappa b and nuclear factor for activate t cell ( nf-at ) .
in electromobility shift assay both nf-kappa b ( p65 or p65/p50 heterodimer ) and nf-at bind to the p sequence .
however , sequence specificity of nf-at be more similar to that of nf(p) , and only a small amount of p65 be detect in nf(p) .
these result indicate that a component or component of nf-at have the potential to reconstitute nf(p) , whereas nf-kappa b alone do not account for nf(p) in jurkat crude extract .
take together , these result suggest that nf-at-like factor be involve in the regulation of il-4 and il-5 gene .
visualization of the endogenous nf-kappa b p50 subunit in the nucleus of follicular dendritic cell in germinal center .
nf-kappa b , a 50 kda/65 kda ( p50/p65 ) heterodimer , be a ubiquitous transcription factor involve in the positive regulation of various immune gene .
the aim of this study be to determine whether nf-kappa b be related to a particular cell type and/or differentiation step during immunopoiesis .
use in situ hybridization on section from non hiv hyperplastic lymph node , we find that the gene of the 105 kda precursor of p50 be overexpressed in the light zone of germinal center , with a network aspect , which suggest the involvement of follicular dendritic cell ( fdc ) .
by immunohistochemistry , p50 protein be detect in the cytoplasm and nucleus of fdc , confirm the involvement of fdc .
furthermore , p50 protein be detect in the cytoplasm of all lymphocyte .
thus , we focus our study on isolate fdc cluster from normal tonsil .
a show on tissue section , we detect the p50 in both cytoplasm and nucleus of fdc .
nucleus of lymphocyte from fdc cluster be negative .
we next study p65 and c-rel protein expression in fdc cluster .
p65 be detect in the cytoplasm of fdc , whereas nucleus be negative .
furthermore , p65 be detect in the nucleus of some lymphocyte .
c-rel protein be detect only in the cytoplasm of lymphocyte and not in the nucleus and cytoplasm of fdc .
our result indicate that , in the context of t cell-dependent b cell immunopoiesis occur in fdc cluster , p50 be mainly related to fdc with a massive overexpression in the nucleus , whereas p65 be express in a scatter manner in the nucleus of lymphocyte and c-rel protein exclusively in the cytoplasm of lymphocyte from fdc cluster .
these result suggest that the two subunit of nf-kappa b and the c-rel protein have different role in different cell type during b cell immunopoiesis .
elf-2 , a rhombotin-2 binding ets transcription factor : discovery and potential role in t cell leukemia .
rhombotin-2 ( rbtn-2 ) be a proto-oncogene only in the context of t lymphocyte .
we postulate that the oncogenic effect of rbtn-2 in t cell be likely mediate by bind protein ( s ) with t cell-specific expression .
by screen a t cell cdna library , we identify a novel ets transcription factor that bind rbtn-2 .
this protein be name elf-2 because it dna-binding domain be virtually identical to that of ets family member elf-1 .
northern analysis show similar level of two elf-2 transcript ( 3.5 kb and 3.8 kb ) in all tissue except thymus .
thymocytes express four- to 10-fold great amount of the 3.5 kb transcript than other tissue .
sequence analysis of cdna clone indicate that these transcript encode protein differ only at their amino terminus , and likely represent alternatively splice isoforms .
these isoforms ( elf-2a and elf-2b ) contain identical rbtn-2 binding region and dna-binding domain .
elf-2b lack a putative transactivation domain .
the expression pattern suggest that rbtn-2 normally interact equally with elf-2a and elf-2b .
in contrast , when rbtn-2 be inappropriately express in t cell , rbtn-2 would interact predominantly with elf-2b ; this interaction may lead to t cell proliferation .
significance of quantitative analysis of aml1 /eto transcript in peripheral blood stem cell from t(8;21) acute myelogenous leukemia .
autologous peripheral blood stem cell transplantation ( pbsct ) be replace autologous bone marrow transplantation ( bmt ) in the treatment of leukemia .
one of the potential advantage of autologous pbsct be the possibility that peripheral blood stem cell ( pbsc ) be less likely to be contaminate by leukemic cell than bone marrow graft .
however , the major problem still remain the high incidence of leukemic relapse follow autologous pbsct , which may be cause by the reinfusion of pbsc contaminate by leukemic cell .
recently , we have develop a quantitative assay use competitive reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction that estimate the number of aml1 /eto transcript in t(8;21) acute myelogenous leukemia ( aml ) , in order to determine the degree of leukemic cell contamination in pbsc harvest , and to monitor minimal residual disease ( mrd ) quantitatively in patient with t(8;21) aml .
our data indicate that although pbsc harvest collect after consolidation chemotherapy be contaminate by leukemic cell , the degree of leukemic cell contamination decrease with repeated cycle of chemotherapy .
furthermore , the mrd in pbsc harvest be less than in the corresponding bone marrow obtain on the day of the pbsc collection .
there appear to be no relationship between the number of aml1 /eto transcript find in the infuse pbsc harvest and the incidence of leukemic relapse follow autologous pbsct in our study .
however , a substantial decrease of aml1 /eto transcript be see follow autologous pbsct .
thus , the quantitative analysis of aml1 /eto transcript may be clinically useful in patient with t(8;21) aml .
protease treatment of nuclear extract distinguish between class ii mhc x1 box dna-binding protein in wild-type and class ii-deficient b cell .
the x box region be critical for direct the expression of class ii major histocompatibility complex gene in b lymphocyte .
although several class ii promoter-specific dna binding factor have be describe , only the x box region factor , rfx , show a genetic correlation with class ii expression , be deficient in some b cell line derive from patient with class ii-deficient congenital immunodeficiency .
to far evaluate the role of x box dna-binding protein in class ii gene expression , the role of the x box region be examine in both class ii-positive and -negative lymphoid cell .
in addition to the wild-type b cell line raji , two class ii transcriptional mutant cell line , sjo and rj2.2.5 , and jurkat , a class ii negative t cell line , be examine .
in contrast to wild-type b cell , neither of the class ii mutant cell line could use the x box region to direct the expression of a transiently transfected reporter gene , indicate that the x box-dependent transcriptional pathway be defective in these cell .
the binding activity of the x1 box dna-binding protein rfx be examine and find to be present in wild-type b cell and the mutant rj2.2.5 but be absent in sjo and jurkat .
however , other x1 box-specific activity be detect in all these cell line .
to determine whether these different x1 box activity represent distinct dna binding protein or multimeric form of the same factor ( s ) , protease treatment of the crude nuclear extract follow by dna-binding assay be carry out and demonstrate that b cell extract contain at least two x1-specific factor .
one of these cleave product ( band 1 pk ) correlate with rfx activity .
a similar comparison with protease-treated extract prepare from jurkat cell demonstrate the presence of the band 1pk activity despite an absence of the native rfx activity .
in contrast , protease treatment and analysis of sjo extract show no detectable level of the band 1pk activity .
these result demonstrate that multiple x1 box-specific dna-binding activity exist in all lymphoid cell , but the presence of an actively binding rfx specie correlate with class ii transcription .
molecular characterization and pattern of tissue expression of the gene for neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin from human .
neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin ( ngal ) be a 25-kda lipocalin first identify a a protein store in specific granule of the human neutrophil .
the protein be believe to bind small lipophilic substance such a bacterial derive formylpeptides and lipopolysaccharides ( lp ) and might function a a modulator of inflammation .
to characterize the regulation of ngal far , we have clone and sequence a 5869-bp region of the ngal gene include 1695 bp of the 5' nontranscribed region and a 3696-bp cod region encompass seven exon and six intron .
the transcriptional start site be identify by an rnase protection assay .
the ngal gene be highly homologous to the mouse gene 24p3 .
ngal be express in bone marrow and in tissue that be prone to exposure to microorganism .
potential cis-acting element be identify in the promoter region of the ngal gene by computer analysis and include bind site for ctf/cbp , the hematopoietic transcription factor gata-1 and pu.1 , and the lp -inducible factor nf-kappa b .
prenatal immune challenge alter the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical axis in adult rat .
we investigate whether non-abortive maternal infection would compromise fetal brain development and alter hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical ( hpa ) axis function when adult .
to study putative teratogenic effect of a t cell-mediated immune response versus an endotoxic challenge , 10-d-pregnant rat receive a single intraperitoneal injection of 5 x 10 ( 8 ) human red blood cell ( hrbc ) or gram-negative bacterial endotoxin ( escherichia coli lp : 30 micrograms/kg ) .
the adult male progeny ( 3 mo old ) of both experimental group show increase basal plasma corticosterone level .
in addition , after novelty stress the hrbc group , but not the lp group , show increase acth and corticosterone level .
both group show substantial decrease in mineralocorticoid ( mr ) and glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) level in the hippocampus , a limbic brain structure critical for hpa axis regulation , whereas gr concentration in the hypothalamus be unchanged and in anterior pituitary be slightly increase .
hrbc and lp indeed stimulate the maternal immune system a reveal by specific anti- hrbc antibody production and enhance il-1 beta mrna expression in splenocytes , respectively .
this study demonstrate that a t cell-mediated immune response as well a an endotoxic challenge during pregnancy can induce anomaly in hpa axis function in adulthood .
clinically , it may be postulate that disturbed fetal brain development due to prenatal immune challenge increase the vulnerability to develop mental illness involve inadequate response to stress .
heat-shock and cadmium chloride increase the vimentin mrna and protein level in u-937 human promonocytic cell .
heat-shock for 2 hour at 42 degree c , or the administration for 3 hour of 100 or 150 microm cadmium chloride , inhibit the subsequent proliferation activity , induce the expression of functional differentiation marker , and cause an increase in the amount of the stress-responsive hsp70 protein in u-937 human promonocytic cell .
in addition , both heat and cadmium produce an increase in the amount of the intermediate filament protein vimentin , a determine by immunoblot and immunofluorescence assay .
by contrast , the amount of actin and beta-tubulin be not significantly alter .
the amount of vimentin mrna be also increase during recovery from stress , indicate that vimentin expression be not exclusively regulate at the protein level .
although cadmium cause an early , transient stimulation of c-jun and c-fos expression and ap-1 binding activity , heat-shock fail to alter both protooncogene expression and transcription factor binding , indicate that the stress-induced vimentin increase be not the result of ap-1 -mediated transcriptional activation .
finally , it be observe that the rate of decay of vimentin mrna upon actinomycin d administration be decrease in heat- and cadmium- pretreated cell in comparison to untreated cell .
these result indicate that stress treatment cause an increase in vimentin level in promonocytic cell , which may be explain at least in part by transcript stabilization .
suppression of c-jun by antisense oligonucleotides inhibit cell adhesion but not respiratory burst during phorbol ester-induced differentiation of u937 human monoblastic cell .
we study the role of the immediate early gene c-jun in cell proliferation and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) -induced differentiation in u937 human monoblastic cell , use c-jun -specific antisense ( as ) phosphorothioate oligonucleotides .
in select the most specific and potent oligonucleotide sequence , we perform extensive analysis for the binding specificity between all candidate of c-jun as oligonucleotides and the whole sequence in genbank database , use a computer program .
among the 20 select oligonucleotides , two potent 15-mer as oligonucleotides ( c-jun as oligonucleotides ) exhibit significant inhibition of cell growth in a dose-dependent manner between 2 and 10 microm .
reverse transcription-pcr and western blot analysis demonstrate that 10 microm of c-jun as oligonucleotides reduce c-jun expression at both the mrna and protein level .
more importantly , c-jun as oligonucleotides show distinct effect on two marker of pma -induced differentiation ; the c-jun as oligonucleotides inhibit cell adhesion , whereas they do not affect another marker of differentiation , respiratory burst ( measure by nitro blue tetrazolium reduction assay ) .
these result suggest a critical role of c-jun in both cell proliferation and pma -induced cell adhesion but not in pma -induced respiratory burst in u937 cell .
abnormal t lymphocyte development induce by target overexpression of ikappab alpha .
a role in thymic maturation for factor of the nf-kappab family have long be suspect , but not yet prove .
transgenic mouse with a lymphocyte-specific defect in nf-kappab activation be produce by target expression of human ikappab alpha .
the thymic cellularity of these mouse be significantly decrease .
the proportion of mature , tcrhigh thymocytes of the alphabeta lineage be reduce , and the remain tcrhigh population contain an unusually high proportion of double-positive cell .
this defect in maturation result in a transgene dose-dependent reduction in peripheral t lymphocyte , with the cd8 lineage be more severely affect .
these data provide direct evidence for the involvement of nf-kappab /rel family protein in late stage of t lymphocyte development , coincident with positive and negative selection .
the lytic transition of epstein-barr virus be imitate by recombinant b-cells .
lytic transition of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) be initiate by distinct immediate early regulator of the viral cycle , in synchronization to temporary , permissive condition during host cell differentiation .
we develop eukaryotic vector suitable to imitate the process involve in lytic transition in cell culture system .
two stable b cell line be establish : r59z activator cell be use to induce lytic ebv expression in a constitutive manner by the production of the bzlf 1 trans-activator ( zta ) .
r7-57 reporter cell , on the other hand , signal induce activity of the lytic origin of ebv replication ( ori lyt ) .
different mode , like chemical induction , lytic superinfection with ebv and single gene trans-activation convert the recombinant ori lyt element in r7-57 reporter cell .
bzlf 1 , transiently express in r7-57 reporter cell , be the only ebv trans-activator find , sufficient in induce the viral lytic cycle .
base on these experiment , trans-cellular activation of ebv be test by cocultivation of bzlf 1 -expressing r59z activator cell with the r7-57 reporter line .
no lytic effect on the reporter cell could be measure , neither by cocultivation of activator cell nor by coincubation of bzlf 1 -containing cell lysates .
latency breaking activity , however , be transfer from activator to reporter cell when active , exogenous virus be add .
the cell system describe in these experiment provide a tool for the detection of ebv reactivation and demonstrate the potential of the lytic regulatory gene bzlf 1
transcription of the hypersensitive site hs2 enhancer in erythroid cell .
in the human genome , the erythroid-specific hypersensitive site hs2 enhancer regulate the transcription of the downstream beta-like globin gene 10-50 kilobases away .
the mechanism of hs2 enhancer function be not know .
the present study employ rna protection assay to analyze the transcriptional status of the hs2 enhancer in transfected recombinant chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) plasmid .
in erythroid k562 cell in which the hs2 enhancer be active , the hs2 sequence direct the synthesis of long enhancer transcript that be initiate apparently from within the enhancer and elongate through the intervene dna into the cis-linked cat gene .
in nonerythroid hl-60 cell in which the hs2 enhancer be inactive , long enhancer transcript be not detectable .
split the hs2 enhancer between two tandem ap1 site abolish the synthesis of a group of long enhancer transcript and result in loss of enhancer function and transcriptional silencing of the cis-linked cat gene .
in direct the synthesis of rna through the intervene dna and the gene by a tracking and transcription mechanism , the hs2 enhancer may ( i ) open up the chromatin structure of a gene domain and ( ii ) deliver enhancer binding protein to the promoter sequence where they may stimulate the transcription of the gene at the cap site .
interleukin-4 inhibit the lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of c-jun and c-fos messenger rna and activator protein-1 binding activity in human monocyte .
we study the effect of interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) on the lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) induction of two immediate early gene c-fos and c-jun .
these gene encode protein that form the dimeric complex activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) , which be active a a transcriptional factor .
maximal accumulation of either c-fos and c-jun messenger rna ( mrna ) occur 30 minute after lp addition .
when cell be treat with il-4 for 5 hour before lp activation , both the c-fos and the c-jun mrna expression be decrease .
the inhibition of c-fos and c-jun expression by il-4 in lps-treated cell be show to be due to a low transcription rate of the c-fos and c-jun gene .
il-4 do not affect the stability of the c-fos and c-jun transcript .
finally , use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , evidence be obtain that il-4 inhibit lps-induced expression of ap-1 protein .
these data indicate that il-4 suppress the induction of transcription factor in human activate monocyte .
mechanism that contribute to the development of lymphoid malignancy : role for genetic alteration and cytokine production .
recent study have define genetic alteration commonly associate with transform lymphocyte .
this review suggest role for these alteration in the development of lymphoid neoplasm .
damage to the gene encode protein that function in intracellular signaling , transcription , or regulation of the cell cycle have be identify and link at vary degree to the progression of certain lymphoid malignancy .
an understanding of the mechanistic consequence follow such genetic alteration be essential to an understanding of the development of these lymphoid neoplasm .
in contrast , it be also become clear that the dysregulated expression of protein that be not genetically alter can also contribute to the progression of lymphoid malignancy .
one such example be the excessive expression of " normal " lymphokine of cytokine which accompany many lymphoproliferative disease .
the dysregulated expression of cytokine during malignancy can result in the augmentation of growth of transform lymphocyte , as well a an alteration of the anti-tumor immune response .
the latter mechanism be especially important because evasion of the impending immune response be a prerequisite for the progression of lymphoproliferative disease .
take together , this review support the notion that the development of lymphoid malignancy be multifactorial , involve genetic alteration as well a dysregulated cytokine expression .
one base pair change abolish the t cell-restricted activity of a kb-like proto-enhancer element from the interleukin 2 promoter .
the inducible , t cell-specific enhancer of murine and human interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene contain the kb-like sequence gggatttcacc a an essential cis-acting enhancer motif .
when clone in multiple copy this so-called tced ( distal t cell element ) act a an inducible proto-enhancer element in e14 t lymphoma cell , but not in hela cell .
in extract of induce , il-2 secreting el4 cell three individual protein factor bind to tced dna .
the binding of the most prominent factor , name tcf-1 ( t cell factor 1 ) , be correlate with the proto-enhancer activity of tced .
tcf-1 consist of two polypeptide of about 50 kd and 105 kd ; the former seem to be related to the 50 kd polypeptide of nf-kb .
purify nf-kb be also able to bind to the tced , but tcf-1 bind strong than nf-kb to tced dna .
the conversion of the tced to a ' perfect ' nf-kb binding site lead to a tight binding of nf-kb to tced dna and , a a functional consequence , to the activity of the ' convert ' tced motif in hela cell .
thus , the substitution of the underline a residue to a c within the gggatttcacc motif abolish it t cell-restricted activity and lead to it function in both el4 cell and hela cell .
these result indicate that lymphocyte-specific factor bind to the tced be involve in the control of t cell specific-transcription of the il-2 gene .
the ap-1 site at -150 bp , but not the nf-kappa b site , be likely to represent the major target of protein kinase c in the interleukin 2 promoter .
stimulation of t cell with antigen result in activation of several kinase , include protein kinase c ( pkc ) , that may mediate the late induction of activation-related gene .
we have examine the potential role of pkc in induction of the interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) gene in t cell stimulate through the t cell receptor/cd3 complex .
we have previously show that prolonged treatment of the untransformed t cell clone ar-5 with phorbol ester result in downmodulation of the alpha and beta isozymes of pkc , and abrogate induction of il-2 mrna and protein .
here we show that phorbol ester treatment also abolish induction of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity in ar-5 cell transfected with a plasmid contain the il-2 promoter link to this reporter gene .
the il-2 promoter contain bind site for nuclear factor include nfat-1 , oct , nf-kappa b , and ap-1 , which be all potentially sensitive to activation of pkc .
we show that induction of a trimer of the nfat and oct site be not sensitive to phorbol ester treatment , and that mutation in the nf-kappa b site have no effect on inducibility of the il-2 promoter .
in contrast , mutation in the ap-1 site located at -150 bp almost completely abrogate induction of the il-2 promoter , and appearance of an inducible nuclear factor bind to this site be sensitive to pkc depletion .
moreover , cotransfections with c-fos and c-jun expression plasmid markedly enhance induction of the il-2 promoter in minimally stimulate t cell .
our result indicate that the ap-1 site at -150 bp represent a major , if not the only , site of pkc responsiveness in the il-2 promoter .
protein-tyrosine kinase activation be require for lipopolysaccharide induction of interleukin 1beta and nfkappab activation , but not nfkappab nuclear translocation .
in human monocyte , interleukin 1beta protein production and steady state mrna level be increase in response to lipopolysaccharide , predominantly a a result of increase transcription of the interleukin 1beta gene .
expression of interleukin 1beta and other cytokine , such a interleukin 6 and tumor necrosis factor alpha , have be show to be dependent on the activation of the transcription factor , nfkappab .
since recent study have show that lipopolysaccharide -induced tyrosine kinase activation be not require for nfkappab nuclear translocation , we seek to determine whether nfkappab translocate in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity be active in stimulate transcription .
we have find that , in the human pro-monocytic cell line , thp-1 , the lipopolysaccharide -induced expression of interleukin 1beta be dependent on tyrosine kinase activation .
tyrosine kinase be not require for lipopolysaccharide -mediated nuclear translocation of nfkappab .
however , in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity , the ability of nfkappab to stimulate transcription be impaired .
this inhibition of transcription be specific for nfkappab ; in the absence of tyrosine kinase activity , ap-1 -dependent transcription be enhance .
these result suggest that , while lipopolysaccharide -induced expression of inflammatory mediator require tyrosine kinase activity , tyrosine kinase activity be not obligatory for lipopolysaccharide signal transduction .
expression of p13mtcp1 be restricted to mature t-cell proliferation with t(x;14) translocation .
t-cell prolymphocytic leukemia ( t-pll ) , a rare form of mature t-cell leukemia , and ataxia telangiectasia clonal proliferation , a related condition occurring in patient suffer from ataxia telangiectasia , have be associate to translocation involve the 14q32.1 or xq28 region , where be located the tcl1 and mtcp1 putative oncogene , respectively .
the mtcp1 gene be involve in the t(x;14)(q28;q11) translocation associate with these t-cell proliferation .
alternative splicing generate type a and b transcript that potentially encode two entirely distinct protein ; type a transcript code for a small mitochondrial protein , p8mtcp1 , and type b transcript , contain an additional open reading frame , may code for 107 amino-acid protein , p13mtcp1 .
the recently clone tcl1 gene , also involve in translocation and inversion associate with t-cell proliferation , cod for a 14-kd protein that display significant homology with p13mtcp1 .
we have generate rabbit antiserum against this putative p13mtcp1 protein and screen for expression of p13mtcp1 normal lymphoid tissue and 33 case of immature and mature lymphoid t-cell proliferation use a sensitive western blot assay .
we also investigate the mtcp1 locus configuration by southern blot analysis .
the p13mtcp1 protein be detect in the three t-cell proliferation with mtcp1 rearrangement because of t(x;14) translocation , but neither in normal rest and activate lymphocyte nor in the other t-cell leukemia .
our data support the hypothesis that p13mtcp1 and p14tcl1 form a new protein family that play a key role in the pathogenesis of t-pll and related condition .
camp inducibility of transcriptional repressor icer in develop and mature human t lymphocyte [ publish erratum appear in proc natl acad sci u s a 1996 jul 23 ; 93 ( 15 ) : 8154 ]
stimulation of the camp -dependent signaling pathway exert an inhibitory effect on the proliferation and effector function of t cell .
the ability of t cell to form high intracellular level of camp be acquire during development in the human thymus and be retain by the majority of mature peripheral t lymphocyte .
here we show that elevated camp level in t cell correlate with the expression of the potent transcriptional repressor icer ( inducible camp early repressor ) previously describe in the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis .
far , in transcriptional assay in vivo , icer inhibit calcineurin -mediated expression of the interleukin 2 promoter as well a tax -mediated transactivation of the human t-lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) promoter .
thus , the induction of icer in t cell may play an important role in the camp -induced quiescence and the persistent latency of htlv-i .
occurrence of a silencer of the interleukin-2 gene in naive but not in memory rest t helper lymphocyte .
in the immune system the first activation of a naive t cell by antigen be a key step in the shaping of the peripheral t cell specificity repertoire and maintenance of self-tolerance .
in the present study , analysis of the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene activation show that naive human helper t cell ( cord blood cd4+ t cell , adult cd4+cd45ro- t cell ) regulate il-2 transcription by a mechanism involve both a silencer and an activator act on the purine-rich il-2 promoter element ( nf-at binding site ) .
by contrast , memory cell , either in vitro activate helper t cell revert to a resting state , or cd4+ t ( memory ) clone , or cd4+cd45ro+ t cell isolate ex vivo , no longer have a silencer .
their il-2 transcription seem to be control solely by the transition from inactive to active functional state of a positive transcription factor bind to these promoter element as well a it cytoplasmic or nuclear location : in rest memory t cell the activator be located in the cytoplasm and be inactive , whereas in stimulate cell it be functional in promote transcription and now reside in the nucleus .
thus , the regulation of the gene cod for the main t cell growth factor change irreversibly after the first encounter of t cell with antigen .
it be most likely that the presence of a silencer contribute to the more stringent activation requirement of naive cd4+ t cell .
influence of estradiol and tamoxifen on susceptibility of human breast cancer cell line to lysis by lymphokine-activated killer cell .
the design of combination hormonal and immunotherapeutic protocol for breast cancer patient may be facilitate by analysis of preclinical in vitro model system .
estrogen receptor positive ( er+ : mcf-7 ) and negative ( er- : mda-mb-231 ) human breast cancer cell line be utilize to evaluate the effect of tamoxifen ( tam ) and estradiol ( e2 ) on modulation of breast cancer target susceptibility to lysis by lymphokine-activated killer ( lak ) cell .
e2 -stimulated er+ cell be more susceptible to lysis by lak cell than correspond tam -treated or control cell , while treatment of er-_cells with either e2 or tam alone do not alter from control their susceptibility to this immune-mediated lysis .
all er+ and er- cell test remain sensitive after treatment with tam to lysis by lak cell .
in addition , an adenocarcinoma reactive human-mouse chimeric monoclonal antibody ( ing-1 ) be able to significantly boost in vivo generate lak cell-mediated lysis of control , e2-treated , and tam-treated er+ and er- cell .
these in vitro result provide a preclinical rationale for in vivo testing of tam , interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , and breast cancer reactive antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity facilitate antibody in patient with refractory or high risk breast cancer .
protease inhibitor block lipopolysaccharide induction of tissue factor gene expression in human monocytic cell by prevent activation of c-rel/ p65 heterodimers .
tissue factor ( tf ) be express rapidly by human monocyte expose to bacterial endotoxin ( lipopolysaccharide , or lp ) .
transcriptional regulation be mediate by binding of c-rel /p65 heterodimers to a kappa b-like site in the tf promoter .
nuclear translocation of cytosolic c-rel/ p65 heterodimers and other member of the nf-kappa b /rel family require dissociation and proteolytic degradation of the inhibitor protein , i kappa b alpha .
the protease inhibitor n alpha-tosylphenylalanyl chloromethyl ketone ( tpck ) and n alpha-tosyl-l-lysine chloromethyl ketone ( tlck ) block activation of nf-kappa b /rel protein by prevent degradation of i kappa b alpha .
to determine if tpck and tlck inhibit lp induction of tf expression , freshly isolate human monocyte and monocytic thp-1 cell be pretreated with these inhibitor for 30 min before lp stimulation .
both tpck and tlck inhibit lp induction of tf protein , tf mrna and tf promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner .
these inhibitor specifically prevent degradation of i kappa b alpha and nuclear translocation of c-rel /p65 heterodimers .
in contrast , tpck and tlck do not block induction of an immediate-early gene encode the transcription factor , egr-1 .
take together , these data indicate that inhibit nuclear translocation of c-rel /p65 heterodimers prevent lp induction of tf gene transcription in monocytic cell .
do activation of the tal1 gene occur in a majority of patient with t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ? a pediatric oncology group study .
almost 25 % of patient with t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( t-all ) have tumor-specific rearrangement of the tal1 gene .
although tal1 expression have not be observe in normal lymphocyte , tal1 gene product be readily detect in leukemic cell that harbor a rearrange tal1 allele .
hence , it have be propose that ectopic expression of tal1 promote the development of t-all .
in this report , we show that tal1 be express in the leukemic cell of most patient with t-all , include many that do not display an apparent tal1 gene alteration .
a polymorphic dinucleotide repeat in the transcribe sequence of tal1 be use to determine the allele specificity of tal1 transcription in primary t-all cell .
monoallelic expression of tal1 be observe in the leukemic cell of all patient ( 8 of 8 ) bear a tal1 gene rearrangement .
in the leukemic cell of patient without detectable tal1 rearrangement , tal1 transcription occur in either a monoallelic ( 3 of 7 patient ) or a biallelic ( 4 of 7 patient ) fashion .
thus , tal1 activation in these patient may result from subtle alteration in cis-acting regulatory sequence ( affect expression of a single tal1 allele ) or change in trans-acting factor that control tal1 transcription ( affect expression of both tal1 allele ) .
stress response of senescent t lymphocyte : reduce hsp70 be independent of the proliferative block .
senescent human t lymphocyte culture be unable to undergo proliferation , but show no difference from early passage cell in cytotoxic function or surface antigenic profile .
a second feature of senescent t cell be the dramatic reduction in hsp70 production in response to heat shock .
this decline be associate with a decrease in binding of nuclear extract to the consensus heat shock element .
interestingly , the progressive decline in the heat shock response of culture t cell correlate with the percent proliferative life span complete rather than with the actual proliferative activity at the time of heat shock .
this suggest that for senescent t cell the reduce ability to respond to heat shock by produce hsp70 , although possibly lie at the level of transcriptional control , may nevertheless be unrelated to the reduce dna synthesis or the diminish proliferative activity also manifest by these cell .
trans-activation of the hiv promoter by a cdna and it genomic clone of human herpesvirus-6 .
human herpesvirus 6 ( hhv-6 ) be a lymphotropic herpesvirus , and in vitro , it can productively infect human cd4+ t cell a hiv-1 .
co-infection of t cell by hiv-1 and hhv-6 can lead to both activation of the hiv-1 promoter and acceleration of the cytopathic effect .
an hhv-6 ( g ) cdna clone , pcd41 , encode for a 41-kda nuclear protein be identify and characterize previously ( chang and balachandran , j. virol . 65 , 2884-2894 and 7085 , 1991 ) .
sequence analysis show that this protein have significant homology with the human cytomegalovirus ul44 gene cod for the icp36 family of early-late-class phosphoprotein .
use this cdna a the probe , a 3.8-kb ecori genomic fragment encode the hhv-6 ( g ) p41 be clone and designate a pgd41 .
when cotransfected with the hiv ltr cat into cv-1 cell , both the pcd41 and pgd41 clone trans-activated the hiv ltr .
sequence analysis of pcd41 indicate that there be two potential open reading frame ( orfs ) , a and b , which be homologous to the orfs find in the genomic clone pgd41 .
deletion construct of the pcd41 clone demonstrate that orf-a be critical for the hiv ltr activation .
deletion analysis of the pcd41 orf-a and the use of promoter construct far map an internal functional promoter within the pcd41 sequence that can direct the synthesis of the trans-activating protein .
by use hiv ltr deletion mutant , the nf-kappa b binding site be find to be critical for response to the pcd41 trans-activation .
molecular cloning of fkhrl1p2 , a member of the developmentally regulate fork head domain transcription factor family .
here we report the expression of a fork head domain protein in human t helper cell .
we clone and characterize a fork head cdna from human t helper cell mrna use differential display rt-pcr .
the cdna contain a 546-nucleotide ( nt ) open reading frame ( orf ) that cod for the carboxyl-terminal 180 amino acid ( aa ) of the recently identify fkhrl1 gene .
this orf do not contain the characteristic dna-binding domain find in member of the forkhead protein family .
in-vitro transcription/translation of this cdna express a protein of approximately 20 kda .
we have generate antibody that specifically immunoprecipitated the in-vitro-translated 20-kda protein .
this antibody also recognize in human t lymphocyte a 70-kda protein correspond in size to that predict for the fkhrl1 gene product .
the mrna level for fkhrl1 be elevated in t helper-induced lymphocyte in comparison to pha-stimulated t lymphocyte .
further characterization of fkhrl1 and it related family member should shed light on the transcriptional mechanism of this fork head gene subfamily and their role in t helper cell differentiation and regulation of cell growth .
missense mutation in exon 7 of the common gamma chain gene cause a moderate form of x-linked combined immunodeficiency .
clinical and immunologic feature of a recently recognize x-linked combined immunodeficiency disease ( xcid ) suggest that xcid and x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency ( xscid ) might arise from different genetic defect .
the recent discovery of mutation in the common gamma chain ( gamma c ) gene , a constituent of several cytokine receptor , in xscid provide an opportunity to test directly whether a previously unrecognized mutation in this same gene be responsible for xcid .
the status of x chromosome inactivation in blood leukocyte from obligate carrier of xcid be determine from the polymorphic , short tandem repeat ( cag ) , in the androgen receptor gene , which also contain a methylation-sensitive hpaii site .
a in xscid , x-chromosome inactivation in obligate carrier of xcid be nonrandom in t and b lymphocyte .
in addition , x chromosome inactivation in pmns be variable .
finding from this analysis prompt sequencing of the gamma c gene in this pedigree .
a missense mutation in the region cod for the cytoplasmic portion of the gamma c gene be find in three affect male but not in a normal brother .
therefore , this point mutation in the gamma c gene lead to a less severe degree of deficiency in cellular and humoral immunity than that see in xscid .
glucocorticoid -mediated inhibition of interleukin-2 receptor alpha and -beta subunit expression by human t cell .
to determine the mechanism of glucocorticoid ( gc ) -mediated inhibition of t cell function , the effect of dexamethasone ( dm ) on t cell proliferation and interleukin-2 receptor ( il-2r ) generation be study .
dexamethasone inhibit il-2 -induced t cell proliferation by 30 % -88 % , relative to it concentration within the culture .
the effect of dm on expression of il-2r alpha ( tac , p55 , cd25 ) and beta ( p75 ) gene in activate t cell be examine next .
in t cell stimulate with purify phytohemagglutinin ( pha-p ) and 4 beta-phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) addition of dm to the culture result in a 60 % reduction in il-2r alpha and a 30 % reduction in il-2r beta membrane expression compare to t cell culture in the absence of dm ( p < 0.01 ) .
inhibition of membrane il-2r alpha and il-2r beta expression by 10(-6) m dm be partially reversible by recombinant human il-2 ( rhil-2 ) .
by northern blot analysis , dm cause a comparable decrease in il-2r alpha and in il-2r beta mrna level to membrane receptor expression in mitogen-stimulated t cell .
by in vitro transcription assay , dm regulate il-2r alpha gene expression at a transcriptional level while transcription of il-2r beta gene be unaffected by dm .
the mechanism of action of dm on il-2r alpha transcription be examine by determine the mrna level of the p50 subunit of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , a transcription factor that stimulate il-2r alpha gene expression .
the data indicate that 10(-6) m dm increase t cell p50 nf-kappa b mrna level by four-fold compare to the level obtain in the absence of dm .
far , the level of nuclear protein capable of bind to the nf-kappa b site in activate t cell increase in response to dm .
in sum , dm regulate t cell membrane expression of il-2r by more than one molecular mechanism .
conserve element contain nf-e2 and tandem gata binding site be require for erythroid-specific chromatin structure reorganization within the human beta-globin locus control region .
proper expression of the gene of the human beta-globin gene locus require the associate locus control region ( lcr ) .
structurally , the lcr be define by the presence of four domain of erythroid-specific chromatin structure .
these domain , which have be characterize a dnase i hypersensitive site ( hs ) , comprise the active element of the lcr .
the major focus of this research be to define the cis_-acting element which be require for the formation of these domain of unique chromatin structure .
our previous investigation on the formation of lcr hs4 demonstrate that nf-e2 and tandem , inverted gata binding site be require for the formation of the native h .
similarly arrange nf-e2 and tandem gata site be present within the core region of the other human lcr hs and be evolutionarily conserve .
use site-directed mutagenesis of human hs 2 and 3 we have test the hypothesis that these nf-e2 and gata site be common requirement for the formation of all lcr hs .
we find that mutation of these element , and particularly the gata element , result in a decrease or complete loss of dnase i hypersensitivity .
these data imply the presence of common structural element within the core of each lcr h which be require for erythroid-specific chromatin structure reorganization .
anti-cd2 receptor antibody activate the hiv long terminal repeat in t lymphocyte .
the cd2 t lymphocyte glycoprotein surface molecule mediate both cell to cell adhesion and t cell activation , two process that be involve in the spread of hiv infection .
treatment of chronically hiv-infected pbmc with anti-cd2 mab have be show to induce the expression of infectious virus from these culture .
in this study we investigate the mechanism whereby anti-cd2 antibody stimulate viral production .
we demonstrate that treatment of transiently transfected t lymphocyte with anti-cd2 antibody result in activation of the hiv long terminal repeat .
furthermore , cat assay use mutate hiv long terminal repeat -cat construct and gel shift assay demonstrate that this activation be dependent on the nf-kappa b enhancer .
these study suggest that interaction of cd2 with it natural ligand , lfa-3 , may play a role in regulation of hiv expression .
the human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 posttranscriptional trans-activator rex contain a nuclear export signal .
the rex protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 be require for the nuclear export of unspliced viral mrna and , therefore , for virus replication .
in this manuscript , we demonstrate that rex shuttle between the nucleus and the cytoplasm and that it activation domain constitute a nuclear export signal that specify efficient transport to the cytoplasm .
these finding be consistent with a model for rex -mediated trans-activation in which rex -viral mrna complex be target for nuclear export by the direct action of the activation domain .
interaction of htlv-i tax with the human proteasome : implication for nf-kappa b induction .
the human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) have be etiologically associate with the development of the adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) as well a degenerative neurologic syndrome term tropical spastic paraparesis ( tsp ) .
htlv-i encode a potent transactivator protein term tax that appear to play an important role in the process of t-cell immortalization .
even though the mechanism by which tax induce transformation be still unknown , it seem likely that the ability of tax to alter the expression of many cellular gene play an important part in this process .
tax do not bind directly to dna but rather deregulate the activity of cellular transcription factor .
one family of host transcription factor whose activity be alter by tax include nf-kappa b/rel .
these transcription factor be post-transcriptionally regulate by their assembly with a second family of inhibitory protein term i kappa b that serve to sequester the nf-kappa b/rel complex in the cytoplasm .
upon cellular activation , i kappa b alpha be phosphorylated , polyubiquitinated , and degrade in the proteasome .
this proteolytic event liberate nf-kappa b , permit it rapid translocation into the nucleus where it bind to it cognate enhancer element .
similarly , the p105 precursor of the nf-kappa b p50 subunit be also post-translationally process in the proteasome .
the mechanism by which tax activate nf-kappa b remain unclear , and finding present in the literature be often controversial .
we identify a physical interaction between tax and the hsn3 subunit of the human proteasome .
this raise the intriguing possibility that physical association of the hsn3 proteasome subunit with htlv-i tax couple with the independent interaction of tax with either p100 or p65- i kappa b alpha target these cytoplasmic nf-kappa b/rel complex to the proteasome for processing .
transcriptional activation of the vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 gene in t lymphocyte express human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 tax protein .
recruitment and extravasation of t cell through the blood-brain barrier be favor by adhesion molecule -mediated interaction of circulate t cell with endothelial cell .
since a common pathological finding in human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) -associated disease be the infiltration of htlv-1-infected t lymphocyte into various organ , we have look for the profile of adhesion molecule express by htlv-1-transformed t cell .
flow cytometry analysis indicate that these cell be express high level of vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 ( vcam-1 [ cd106 ] ) , a 110-kda member of the immunoglobulin gene superfamily , first identify on endothelial cell stimulate with inflammatory cytokine .
this adhesion molecule be also express by t cell obtain from one patient with htlv-1 -associated myelopathy/tropical spastic paraparesis but not by activate t cell isolate from one normal blood donor .
the role of the viral trans-activator tax protein in the induction of vcam-1 be first indicate by the detection of this adhesion molecule on jurkat t-cell clone stably express the tax gene .
the effect of tax on vcam-1 gene transcription be next confirm in jpx-9 cell , a subclone of jurkat cell , carry the tax sequence under the control of an inducible promoter .
furthermore , deletion and mutation analysis of the vcam-1 promoter perform with chloramphenicol acetyltransferase construct reveal that tax be trans activate the vcam-1 promoter via two nf-kappab site present at bp -72 and -57 in the vcam-1 gene promoter , with both of them be require for the tax -induced expression of this adhesion molecule .
finally , gel mobility shift assay demonstrate the nuclear translocation of protein specifically bind to these two nf-kappab motif , confirm that vcam-1 be induce on tax -expressing cell in a kappab -dependent manner .
collectively , these result therefore suggest that the exclusive tax -induced expression of vcam-1 on t cell may represent a pivotal event in the progression of htlv-1 -associated disease .
identification of an inducible regulator of c-myb expression during t-cell activation .
rest t cell express very low level of c-myb protein .
during t-cell activation , c-myb expression be induce and much of the increase in expression occur at the transcriptional level .
we identify a region of the c-myb 5' flanking sequence that increase c-myb expression during t-cell activation .
in vivo footprinting by ligation-mediated pcr be perform to correlate in vivo protein binding with functional activity .
a protein footprint be visible over this region of the c-myb 5' flanking sequence in activate t cell but not in unactivated t cell .
an electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) with nuclear extract from activate t cell and an oligonucleotide of this bind site demonstrate a new protein-dna complex , refer to a cmat for c-myb in activate t cell ; this complex be not present in unactivated t cell .
because the bind site show some sequence similarity with the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) binding site , we compare the kinetics of induction of the two bind complex and the molecular mass of the two protein .
study of the kinetics of induction show that the nfat emsa binding complex appear earlier than the cmat complex .
the nfat protein migrate more slowly in a sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel than the cmat protein do .
in addition , an antibody against nfat do not cross-react with the cmat protein .
the appearance of the cmat binding complex be inhibit by both cyclosporin a and rapamycin .
the cmat protein appear to be a novel inducible protein involve in the regulation of c-myb expression during t-cell activation .
characterization of a cofactor that regulate dimerization of a mammalian homeodomain protein .
dimerization among transcription factor have become a recurrent theme in the regulation of eukaryotic gene expression .
hepatocyte nuclear factor-1 alpha ( hnf-1 alpha ) be a homeodomain-containing protein that function a a dimer .
a dimerization cofactor of hnf-1 alpha ( dcoh ) be identify that display a restricted tissue distribution and do not bind to dna , but , rather , selectively stabilize hnf-1 alpha dimer .
the formation of a stable tetrameric dcoh-hnf-1 alpha complex , which require the dimerization domain of hnf-1 alpha , do not change the dna binding characteristic of hnf-1 alpha , but enhance it transcriptional activity .
however , dcoh do not confer transcriptional activation to the gal4 dna binding domain .
these result indicate that dcoh regulate formation of transcriptionally active tetrameric complex and may contribute to the developmental specificity of the complex .
calcineurin and the biological effect of cyclosporine and tacrolimus .
the mechanism of the immunosuppressive effect of cya and fk 506 can be monitor in vivo in human .
the picture emerge be of a close relationship between drug concentration and cn inhibition .
but many puzzle of the drug remain .
what be the role of cya in the activation of transform growth factor-beta ( tgf-beta ) , particularly in relationship to nephrotoxicity and fibrogenesis ?
how important be the anti-inflammatory ( non t ) effect of cya , and which cell do they operate in ?
be there effect of cya and fk 506 all attributable to cn inhibition , and how much of them be mediate through the nfatc family of transcription factor ?
finally , it would be useful to know what the inhibitory effect of cya be on tolerance and negative regulatory event .
signaling via il-2 and il-4 in jak3 -deficient severe combined immunodeficiency lymphocyte : jak3 -dependent and independent pathway .
both il-2 and il-4 bind to receptor contain the common gamma chain and jak3 .
although jak3 be require for proper lymphoid development , the precise role of this kinase in il-2 and il-4 signaling in lymphocyte have not be define .
here , we have study il-2 and il-4 signaling in b cell line lack jak3 .
although il-2 -induced phosphorylation of il-2r beta , jak1 , and stat5 all require the presence of jak3 , il-4 -mediated phosphorylation of jak1 , stat6 , and insulin receptor substrate 1 and 2 do not .
however , il-4 -induced effect be clearly improve follow jak3 expression .
these data indicate that il-4 signaling occur in the absence of of jak3 , but be comparatively inefficient .
these finding may help in understand the pathogenesis of the immunodeficiency that occur with mutation of jak3 and may suggest a mechanism for the pleiotropic effect of il-4 .
the role of bsap ( pax-5 ) in b-cell development .
the hierarchy of transcriptional control in b-cell development have recently be analyze by target gene inactivation in the mouse .
in this manner , the paired box contain gene pax-5 , encode the b cell specific transcription factor bsap , have be show to play a key role in early b lymphopoiesis .
other experimental strategy have implicate bsap in the control of cell proliferation , isotype switching and transcription of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain gene at late stage of b-cell differentiation .
activation of stat-3 be involve in the induction of apoptosis after ligation of major histocompatibility complex class i molecule on human jurkat t cell .
activation of janus tyrosine kinase ( jak ) and signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) after ligation of major histocompatibility complex class i ( mhc-i ) be explore in jurkat t cell .
cross-linking of mhc-i mediate tyrosine phosphorylation of tyk2 , but not jak1 , jak2 , and jak3 .
in addition , the transcription factor stat-3 be tyrosine phosphorylated in the cytoplasm and subsequently translocate to the cell nucleus .
data obtain by electrophoretic mobility shift assay suggest that the activate stat-3 protein associate with the human serum-inducible element ( hsie ) dna-probe derive from the interferon-gamma activated site ( gas ) in the c-fos promoter , a common dna sequence for stat protein binding .
an association between hsie and stat-3 after mhc-i ligation be directly demonstrate by precipitate stat-3 from nuclear extract with biotinylated hsie probe and avidin -coupled agarose .
to investigate the function of the activate stat-3 , jurkat t cell be transiently transfected with a stat-3 isoform lack the transactivating domain .
this dominant-negative act stat-3 isoform significantly inhibit apoptosis induce by ligation of mhc-i .
in conclusion , our data suggest the involvement of the jak/stat signal pathway in mhc-i -induced signal transduction in t cell .
hiv-1 tat induce the expression of a new hematopoietic cell-specific transcription factor and downregulates mip-1 alpha gene expression in activate t-cells .
mip-1 alpha be a secrete chemokine which can inhibit hematopoietic stem cell and modulate inflammatory response .
it be also an inhibitor of hiv replication in cd8+ t-cells .
the expression of mip-1 alpha be induce during cellular activation of cd4+ t-cells and monocyte .
it be also express in transform b-cells .
we have previously identify a new transcription factor family ( the mnp family ) whose expression be crucial for the induction of mip-1 alpha transcription during cellular activation and in transform b cell .
monocyte and transform b-cells normally express mnp-1 strongly and mnp-2 weakly , while t-cells strongly express only mnp-2 .
recently , we report that hiv-1 tat downregulates mip-1 alpha expression in jurkat t-cells .
in this report we show induction of mnp-1 in jurkat t-cells express hiv-1 tat .
expression of neither htlv-1 tax in jurkat t-cells nor ebv in b-cells have any effect on mnp-1 or mnp-2 expression , show that the effect be specific for hiv-1 tat .
we propose that hiv-1 tat may inhibit mip-1 alpha expression by induce mnp-1 expression in t-cells , probably by either compete with mnp-2 for binding to the mip-1 alpha promoter or by sequester it into inactive form .
acute leukemia with promyelocytic feature in pml/raralpha transgenic mouse .
acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) be associate with reciprocal chromosomal translocation involve the retinoic acid receptor alpha ( raralpha ) locus on chromosome 17 .
in the majority of case , raralpha translocate and fuse with the promyelocytic leukemia ( pml ) gene located on chromosome 15 .
the result fusion gene encode the two structurally unique pml/ raralpha and raralpha /pml fusion protein as well a aberrant pml gene product , the respective pathogenetic role of which have not be elucidate .
we have generate transgenic mouse in which the pml/ raralpha fusion protein be specifically express in the myeloid-promyelocytic lineage .
during their first year of life , all the pml/ raralpha transgenic mouse have an abnormal hematopoiesis that can best be describe a a myeloproliferative disorder .
between 12 and 14 month of age , 10 % of them develop a form of acute leukemia with a differentiation block at the promyelocytic stage that closely mimic human apl even in it response to retinoic acid .
our result be conclusive in vivo evidence that pml/ raralpha play a crucial role in the pathogenesis of apl .
octamer binding factor and their coactivator can activate the murine pu.1 ( spi-1 ) promoter .
pu.1 ( spi-1 ) , a member of the ets transcription factor family , be predominantly express in myeloid and b cell , activate many b cell and myeloid gene , and be critical for development of both of these lineage .
our previous study ( chen , h.m. , ray-gallet , d. , zhang , p. , hetherington , c.j. , gonzalez , d.a. , zhang , d.-e. , moreau-gachelin , f. , and tenen , d.g. ( 1995 ) oncogene 11 , 1549-1560 ) demonstrate that the pu.1 promoter direct cell type-specific reporter gene expression in myeloid cell line , and that pu.1 activate it own promoter in an autoregulatory loop .
here we show that the murine pu.1 promoter be also specifically and highly functional in b cell line as well .
oct-1 and oct-2 can bind specifically to a site at base pair -55 in vitro , and this site be specifically protect in b cell in vivo .
we also demonstrate that two other site contribute to promoter activity in b cell ; an sp1 binding site adjacent to the octamer site , and the pu.1 autoregulatory site .
finally , we show that the b cell coactivator obf-1/bob1/oca-b be only express in b cell and not in myeloid cell , and that obf-1/bob1/oca-b can transactivate the pu.1 promoter in hela and myeloid cell .
this b cell restricted coactivator may be responsible for the b cell specific expression of pu.1 mediate by the octamer site .
stimulation of interleukin-1 alpha and interleukin-1 beta production in human monocyte by protein phosphatase 1 and 2a inhibitor .
protein phosphatase 1 and 2a be important in regulate cellular function by control the phosphorylation state of their substrate .
in human monocyte , the inhibitor of these phosphatase , okadaic acid and calyculin a , be find to increase the mrna accumulation and cytokine production of interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-1 alpha .
the increase mrna accumulation be find to be primarily because of the increase in the transcription rate of the interleukin-1 gene .
stimulation of interleukin-1 gene transcription may be cause by the stimulation of transcription factor activity , include those of ap-1 , by these protein phosphatase inhibitor .
okadaic acid increase the synthesis of the interleukin-1 beta precursor and mature form and their secretion .
this increase processing and secretion correlate with the stimulation of il-1 beta convertase mrna accumulation .
the stimulation of interleukin-1 alpha production by okadaic acid be more modest than that of interleukin-1 beta .
however , the phosphorylation of the precursor interleukin-1 alpha cytokine be increase .
these result show that protein phosphatase 1 and 2a inhibitor exert multiple effect on cytokine production in human monocyte and suggest that these two phosphatase play important role in regulate interleukin-1 production .
[ an overexpression of retinoic acid receptor alpha block myeloid cell differentiation at the promyelocyte stage ]
retinoic acid ( ra ) , a vitamin a derivative , exert a wide range of biological effect related to cell proliferation and differentiation .
the pleiotropic effect of ra be think to be mediate through specific nuclear ra receptor ( rars ) .
rars be member of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor superfamily and exhibit a molecular structure that possess discrete dna-binding and ra ( ligand ) -binding domain .
in hematopoietic system , ra and rars , predominantly rar alpha may play key role for the proliferation and differentiation of hematopoietic progenitor .
however , it be currently unknown how ra and rars be involve in regulate normal hematopoietic differentiation .
to make clear the role of ra and rar alpha in the normal hematopoiesis , i have introduce the construct of human rar alpha ( hrar alpha ) into murine bone marrow cell with retroviral vector , and select infected cell with drug resistant marker ( neo(r) ) culture on the stroma cell line ( pa6-neo ) , and analyze the behavior of infected cell .
all of procedure be do in vitro .
most cell infect with hrar alpha exhibit promyelocytic morphology and be think to be block at the promyelocytic stage in their myeloid differentiation .
furthermore , these immature cell differentiate terminally into mature granulocyte by add with ra ( 10 ( -6 ) m ) .
rar alpha infected cell be also able to differentiate into mature macrophage in the both of long term culture and il3 colony .
these observation suggest that an overexpression of rar alpha alone be effective to suppress myeloid cell differentiation and rar alpha play a crucial role in the terminal differentiation of myeloid precursor .
the system describe here may serve a a model for study the the essential gene for differentiation of normal bone marrow cell .
signal transducer and activator of transcription-3 ( stat3 ) be constitutively activate in normal , self-renewing b-1 cell but only inducibly express in conventional b lymphocyte [ see comment ]
cytokine and growth factor receptor engagement lead to the rapid phosphorylation and activation of latent , cytosolic signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein , which then translocate to the nucleus where they regulate transcriptional event from specific promoter sequence .
stat3 expression in particular have be associate with abl , src , and htlv-1 transformation of normal cell .
b-1 lymphocyte be self-renewing , cd5+ b cell that display a propensity for malignant transformation and be the normal counterpart to human chronic lymphocytic leukemia .
far , b-1 cell be characterize by aberrant intracellular signaling , include hyperresponsiveness to phorbol ester pkc agonist .
here we demonstrate that b-1 lymphocyte constitutively express nuclear activate stat3 , which be not express by unmanipulated conventional ( b-2 ) lymphocyte .
in contrast , stat3 activation be induce in b-2 cell after antigen receptor engagement in a delayed fashion ( after 3 h ) .
induction of stat3 be inhibit by both the serine/threonine protein kinase inhibitor h-7 and the immunosuppressive drug rapamycin and require de novo protein synthesis , demonstrate novel coupling between sig and stat protein that differ from the classical paradigm for stat induction by cytokine receptor .
the inability of prolonged stimulation of conventional b-2 cell with anti-ig , a treatment sufficient to induce cd5 expression , to result in sustained stat3 activation suggest that stat3 be a specific nuclear marker for b-1 cell .
thus , stat3 may play a role in b cell antigen-specific signaling response , and it constitutive activation be associate with a normal cell population exhibit intrinsic proliferative behavior .
musculin : a murine basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor gene express in embryonic skeletal muscle .
we describe the embryonic expression of musculin , a new murine member of the bhlh family of transcription factor .
musculin protein be closely related to human abf-1 , which be express in activate b cell , and to epicardin/capsulin/pod-1 , which be express in branchial myoblasts , visceral and urogenital mesoderm and epicardium .
in situ hybridisation reveal musculin expression in embryo be largely restricted to the embryonic skeletal muscle lineage .
while all skeletal muscle express the gene , only a subset of myocytes within each muscle be positive , indicate molecular heterogeneity within fetal muscle .
copyright 1998 elsevier science ireland ltd .
all right reserve .
delta-opioid receptor express by jurkat t cell enhance il-2 secretion by increase ap-1 complex and activity of the nf-at/ap-1-binding promoter element .
recent molecular evidence point to transient and/or stage-specific expression of delta- and kappa- opioid receptor by thymic and peripheral t lymphocyte .
since medical treatment or stress commonly increase opioid level , it be important to understand the mechanism by which opioids affect t lymphocyte function .
we therefore create and study a t cell line express the clone delta-opioid receptor ( dor1 ) .
dor1 ligation by a specific dor1 agonist , deltorphin , augment il-2 secretion by synergizing with signal from tcr- cd3 and cd28 .
reporter gene construct be use to map this effect of deltorphin to the ap-1- and nf-at/ap-1- binding site of the il-2 promoter .
although dor1 signaling increase [ ca2+ ]i , deltorphin enhance transcriptional activity of the nf-at/ap-1-binding site via a mechanism independent of calcineurin and distinct from the effect of elevated [ ca2+ ]i .
deltorphin also increase accumulation of ap-1 transcription factor complex , suggest that dor1 augment il-2 secretion by increase the ap-1 component of the nf-at/ap-1 transcription factor .
these result advance the molecular understanding of opioid effect on lymphocyte , and in addition , demonstrate regulation of il-2 synthesis and secretion by the novel mechanism of receptor-mediated ap-1 induction .
ym268 increase the glucose uptake , cell differentiation , and mrna expression of glucose transporter in 3t3-l1 adipocytes .
the purpose of this study be to examine the effect of bis[4-[2,4-dioxo-5-thiazolidinyl)methyl]phenyl] methane ( ym-268 ) , a thiazolidinedione derivative , on glucose uptake , adipocyte differentiation through peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma ( ppargamma ) , and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( pi 3-kinase ) activity in culture cell .
ym268 and pioglitazone dose-dependently increase the 2-deoxyglucose uptake in 3t3-l1 cell .
ym268 facilitate the insulin-stimulated triglyceride accumulation in 3t3-l1 adipocytes and increase the mrna expression of fatty acid-binding protein .
ym268 , with and without insulin , increase the mrna expression of glucose transporter isoforms such a glut1 and glut4 , indicate enhancement of adipocyte differentiation .
additionally , ym268 and pioglitazone show activity of the ppargamma ligand , a member of the nuclear receptor superfamily responsible for adipogenesis .
to examine the possible involvement of the increase activity of pi 3-kinase in ym268 -stimulated glucose uptake , the enzyme activity be estimate by measure the phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate ( pi-3,4,5-p3 ) concentration in human monocytic cell .
insulin dose-dependently increase the pi-3,4,5-p3 production but ym268 have no significant effect on the insulin -dependent and -independent pi 3-kinase activation .
these result indicate that the mechanism by which ym268 increase glucose uptake , may be account for in part by the enhancement of glut1 and glut4 expression through ppargamma activation .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor preferentially activate the 94-kd stat5a and an 80-kd stat5a isoform in human peripheral blood monocyte .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) induce immediate effect in monocyte by activation of the janus kinase ( jak2 ) and stat transcription factor ( stat5 ) pathway .
recent study have identify homologues of stat5 , stat5a , and stat5b , as well a low molecular weight variant of stat5 .
to define the activation of the stat5 homologues and low molecular weight variant in human monocyte and monocyte differentiate into macrophage by culture in macrophage-csf ( m-csf ) , we measure the gm-csf induced tyrosine phosphorylation of stat5a , stat5b , and any low molecular weight stat5 isoforms .
freshly isolate monocyte express 94-kd stat5a , 92-kd stat5b , and an 80-kd stat5a molecule .
whereas 94-kd stat5a be clearly tyrosine phosphorylated and bind to the enhancer element , the gamma response region ( grr ) , of the fc gamma ri gene , substantially less tyrosine phosphorylated stat5b bind to the immobilized grr element .
macrophage lose their ability to express the 80-kd stat5a protein , but retain their ability to activate stat5a .
stat5a -stat5a homodimers and stat5a -stat5b heterodimers form in response to gm-csf .
therefore , activation of stat5a predominate compare to stat5b when assay by direct immunoprecipitation and by evaluation of bind stats to immobilized grr .
selective activation of stat5 homologues in addition to generation of low molecular isoforms may provide specificity and control to gene express in response to cytokine such a gm-csf .
transcription factor requirement for u2 snrna -encoding gene activation in b lymphoid cell .
transcription of a human u2 small nuclear rna ( snrna ) -encoding gene in hela cell require a distal enhancer element , which be compose of one octamer motif ( oct ) and three sp 1-binding site .
to study the transcription factor requirement in b-cells , different u2 enhancer construction be transfected into the lymphoid cell line , bja-b .
the result show that the activation of u2 snrna transcription in b-cells also require an enhancer comprise both the oct and at least one sp 1-binding site .
deletion of all the sp 1-binding site from the enhancer reduce transcription by 80-90 % in hela , as well a in bja-b cell , whereas the removal of the octamer-binding site reduce transcription to level below detection in both cell type .
enhancer contain a single oct have , nevertheless , the capacity to partially activate u2 snrna transcription in both hela cell , in which only otf-1 be express , and in bja-b cell in which otf-2 be the predominantly express octamer-binding factor .
the most likely interpretation of our result be that both the ubiquitous transcription factor , otf-1 , and the b-cell-specific transcription factor , otf-2 , can activate u2 snrna transcription .
the result also reveal a similar functional cooperation between the transcription factor which bind to the oct and the adjacent sp 1-binding site in bja-b cell , a have be observe in hela cell , since a template which contain a weak bind site for otfs express wild-type level of u2 snrna in both cell type when the weak octamer-binding site be combine with a sp 1-binding site .
differential regulation of il-6 gene transcription and expression by il-4 and il-10 in human monocytic cell line .
il-4 and il-10 inhibit the cytokine production and mrna expression by monocytes/macrophages .
to investigate the molecular mechanism of the inhibitory effect on transcriptional or post-transcriptional regulation of il-6 gene expression by il-4 and il-10 , we study il-6 production , expression level of il-6 mrna , il-6 promoter activity , transcriptional activity of nf-kappab and nf- il-6 , and il-6 mrna stability in human monocytic cell line , thp-1 and u937 , stimulate by pma and lp in the absence or the presence of il-4 or il-10 .
both il-4 and il-10 be see to inhibit il-6 production and the expression of il-6 mrna in both monocytic cell line study .
in chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay , utilize the transient transfection of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter plasmid contain the il-6 gene promoter , il-4 , but not il-10 , suppress the transcriptional activity of the il-6 gene promoter stimulate by pma and lp .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay show that il-4 , but not il-10 , inhibit nuclear nf-kappab activity , and that il-4 and il-10 do not affect nf- il-6 activity .
on the other hand , il-10 enhance the degradation of il-6 mrna in a mrna stability assay .
these result suggest that il-4 may inhibit the transcription of the il-6 gene by affect nf-kappab binding activity , while il-10 may inhibit the il-6 mrna level post-transcriptionally , without suppress promoter activity .
therefore , we conclude that il-4 and il-10 inhibit il-6 production by different mechanism in human monocytic cell line .
retinoic acid-induced expression of cd38 antigen in myeloid cell be mediate through retinoic acid receptor-alpha .
cd38 be a leukocyte differentiation antigen that have be think to be a phenotypic marker of different subpopulation of t- and b- lymphocyte .
in myeloid cell , cd38 be express during early stage of differentiation .
virtually no information be available on regulation and function of cd38 .
recently we report that all-trans-retinoic acid ( atra ) be a potent and highly specific inducer of cd38 expression in human promyelocytic leukemia cell .
here we report that atra -induced expression of cd38 antigen in myeloid cell be mediate through retinoic acid-alpha receptor ( rar alpha ) .
atra fail to induce cd38 expression in a mutant subclone of the hl-60 myeloid leukemia cell line ( designate hl-60r ) that be relatively resistant to atra -induced granulocytic differentiation .
retroviral vector-mediated transduction of ra receptor ( rar alpha ) into this hl-60r subclone completely restore the sensitivity of these cell to atra in term of their ability to express cd38 .
in contrast , cd38 expression be not inducible by atra in hl-60r cell , transfected with a functional rar beta , rar gamma , or rxr alpha receptor .
induction of cd38 in acute promyelocytic and acute myeloblastic leukemia cell be independent of atra -induced cytodifferentiation .
follow culture with atra , increase cd38 protein level be also observe in normal cd34+ bone marrow cell , but not on normal circulate granulocyte .
from these result , we conclude that cd38 be atra inducible in myeloid leukemia cell and normal cd34+ bone marrow cell .
this effect be independent of differentiation and be mediate by rar alpha in hl-60 cell , suggest a similar role for rar alpha in cd38 expression in other hematopoietic cell .
a factor that regulate the class ii major histocompatibility complex gene dpa be a member of a subfamily of zinc finger protein that include a drosophila developmental control protein .
a novel dna sequence element term the j element involve in the regulate expression of class ii major histocompatibility complex gene be recently describe .
to study this element and it role in class ii gene regulation far , a cdna library be screen with oligonucleotide probe contain both the s element and the nearby j element of the human dpa gene .
several dna clone be obtain by this procedure , one of which , clone 18 , be report and characterize here .
it encode a protein predict to contain 688 amino acid residue , include 11 zinc finger motif of the c2h2 type in the c-terminal region , that be kruppel-like in the conservation of the h/c link sequence connect them .
the 160 n-terminal amino acid in the nonfinger region of clone 18 be highly homologous with similar region of several other human , mouse , and drosophila sequence , define a subfamily of kruppel-like zinc finger protein term tab ( tramtrack [ ttk ] -associated box ) here .
one of the drosophila sequence , ttk , be a developmental control gene , while a second do not contain a zinc finger region but encode a structure important in oocyte development .
an acidic activation domain be located between the n-terminal conserved region of clone 18 and it zinc finger .
this protein appear to require both the s and j element , which be separate by 10 bp for optimal binding .
antisense cdna to clone 18 inhibit the expression of a reporter construct contain the dpa promoter , indicate it functional importance in the expression of this class ii gene .
thymocytes control the cd4 gene differently from mature t lymphocyte .
we analyze the activity of the enhancer , the promoter and the silencer of the human cd4 gene during t cell development use transgenic mouse .
immunofluorescence study on thymic population of mouse carry transgene in various combination of these regulatory dna element reveal that thymocytes control the cd4 gene in a different manner than mature peripheral t lymphocyte .
the 5'-positive regulatory unit , consist of the promoter and the 5' enhancer , be already active at the cd4 - cd8 -double-negative ( dn ) stage of development .
however , it activity become low in the double-positive and a fraction of the cd4+ cd8int/- cell population , indicate that an additional enhancer , located in either the first or the third intron of the cd4 gene , be require for cd4 gene expression in this population .
the other study regulatory element be the minimal cd4 silencer which inhibit cd4 gene expression in peripheral cd8 t lymphocyte .
this silencer be inactive in the most immature dn thymocytes , which probably use a distinct silencer mechanism to down-regulate cd4 gene expression .
unexpectedly , the cd4 silencer be also active in cd4+ cd8int/- cell of the thymus , imply that an anti-silencer may be require to resume cd4 expression in this cell population .
altogether , the cd4 gene be regulate by several positive and negative regulatory mechanism which come into play in a developmentally coordinate manner .
molecular cloning and functional characterization of murine cdna encoding transcription factor nfatc .
transcription factor of the nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) family play important role in immune and inflammatory response by regulate the expression of gene encode cytokine and immunoregulatory protein .
here we describe cloning and characterization of full-length cdna encoding murine ( m ) nfatc which predict that the protein have all the conserve structural motif of nfat family member , include the rel homology domain , the nfat homology domain and the nuclear translocation signal .
mnfatc complexed with ap-1 bind specifically to the murine il-2 nfat recognition sequence and activate transcription from the co-transfected il-2 promoter in cos-7 cell .
northern blot analysis show that the cdna probe hybridize with a 4.5 kb transcript which be highly inducible in murine t cell .
by northern and in situ hybridization , mnfatc transcript be detect from the early stage of development .
in the mouse embryo , mnfatc transcript be strongly express in thymus , lung and submandibular gland and weakly in skeletal muscle and heart suggest that mnfatc may have a role both in embryogenesis and in mature t cell .
interaction of transcription factor rfx1 and mibp1 with the gamma motif of the negative regulatory element of the hepatitis b virus core promoter .
the negative regulatory element ( nre ) of the hepatitis b virus ( hbv ) core promoter contain three subregions which act synergistically to suppress core promoter activity .
one of these subregions , nre gamma , be active in both hela cervical carcinoma cell and huh7 hepatoma cell and be find to be bind by a protein factor present in both cell type .
here we show that the transcription factor rfx1 can bind to nre gamma and transactivate the core promoter through this site .
mutation which abrogate the gene-suppressive activity of nre gamma prevent rfx1 from binding to nre gamma .
in addition , rfx1 can bind simultaneously , most likely a a heterodimer , with the transcription factor mibp1 to nre gamma .
in the absence of a clone mibp1 gene for further study , we hypothesize that rfx1 act with mibp1 to negatively regulate the core promoter activity through the nre gamma site .
the ability of rfx1 to transactivate the core promoter raise the possibility that rfx1 may play a dual role in regulate hbv gene expression
epstein-barr virus nuclear protein 2 transactivation of the latent membrane protein 1 promoter be mediate by j kappa and pu.1 .
expression of the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) latent membrane protein 1 ( lmp-1 ) oncogene be regulate by the ebv nuclear protein 2 ( ebna-2 ) transactivator .
ebna-2 be know to interact with the cellular dna-binding protein j kappa and be recruit to promoter contain the gtgggaa j kappa recognition sequence .
the minimal ebna-2 -responsive lmp-1 promoter include one j kappa -binding site , and we now show that mutation of that site , such that j kappa can not bind , reduce ebna-2 responsiveness by 60 % .
to identify other factor which interact with the lmp-1 ebna-2 response element ( e2re ) , a -236/-145 minimal e2re be use a a probe in an electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
the previously characterize factor j kappa , pu.1 , and aml1 bind to the lmp-1 e2re , along with six other unidentified factor ( lbf2 to lbf7 ) .
bind site be map for each factor .
lbf4 be b- and t-cell specific and recognize the pu.1 ggaa core sequence a show by methylation interference .
lbf4 have a molecular mass of 105 kda and be probably unrelated to pu.1 .
lbf2 be find only in epithelial cell line , whereas lbf3 , lbf5 , lbf6 , and lbf7 be not cell type specific .
mutation of the aml1- or lbf4- binding site have no effect on ebna-2 transactivation , whereas mutation of the pu.1 -binding site completely eliminate ebna-2 response .
a gst- ebna-2 fusion protein specifically deplete pu.1 from nuclear extract and bind in vitro translate pu.1 , provide biochemical evidence for a direct ebna-2 -pu.1 interaction .
thus , ebna-2 transactivation of the lmp-1 promoter be dependent on interaction with at least two distinct sequence-specific dna-binding protein , j kappa and pu.1 .
lbf3 , lbf5 , lbf6 , or lbf7 may also be involve , since their bind site also contribute to ebna-2 responsiveness .
differential regulation of coproporphyrinogen oxidase gene between erythroid and nonerythroid cell .
coproporphyrinogen oxidase ( cpo ) catalyze the sixth step of the heme biosynthetic pathway .
to assess the tissue-specific regulation of the cpo gene promoter , mouse genomic dna clone for cpo be isolate .
structural analysis demonstrate that the mouse cpo gene span approximately 11 kb and consist of seven exon , just like it human counterpart .
functional analysis of the promoter by transient transfection assay indicate that synergistic action between an sp-1 -like element at -21/-12 , a gata site at -59/-54 , and a novel regulatory element , cpre ( ggactacag - ) at -49/-41 , be essential for the promoter activity in murine erythroleukemia ( mel ) cell .
in nonerythroid nih3t3 cell , however , the gata site be not require .
gel mobility shift assay demonstrate that specific dna-protein complex can be form with each element , and that there be cell-specific difference in factor , which bind to the sp-1 -like element between mel and nih3t3 cell .
these result provide evidence for differential regulation of the promoter function of cpo gene between erythroid and nonerythroid cell .
copyright 1998 by the american society of hematology
signal lead to the activation of nf-kappa b transcription factor be strong in neonatal than adult t lymphocyte .
the molecular background of the defect in the immune reactivity of human neonate have not be fully elucidate .
a the nf-kappa b transcription factor have a central role in the control of transcription of several gene involve in immune and inflammatory response , the author have analyse the activation of nf-kappa b in human umbilical cord t lymphocyte .
the activity be test by quantitating the nuclear protein bind to an oligonucleotide contain the consensus kappa b binding sequence ( electrophoretic mobility shift assay ) .
the data obtain demonstrate that phorbol dibutyrate/calcium ionophore a23187 ( pdbu/iono ) combination induce a clearly high nuclear translocation of nf-kappa b in neonatal than adult t cell .
this high nf-kappa b activity be restricted to the cd4+ t-cell subset .
analysis of the nuclear extract with antibody direct against the major component of nf-kappa b the p50 and rela ( p65 ) protein , indicate that the composition of nf-kappa b be similar in neonatal and adult cell .
these result suggest that neonatal t cell be expose to oxidative stress-inducing signal during delivery and/or be inherently more sensitive to nf-kappa b activating signal than adult t cell .
regulation of the ets-related transcription factor elf-1 by bind to the retinoblastoma protein .
the retinoblastoma gene product ( rb ) be a nuclear phosphoprotein that regulate cell cycle progression .
elf-1 be a lymphoid-specific ets transcription factor that regulate inducible gene expression during t cell activation .
in this report , it be demonstrate that elf-1 contain a sequence motif that be highly related to the rb binding site of several viral oncoproteins and bind to the pocket region of rb both in vitro and in vivo .
elf-1 bind exclusively to the underphosphorylated form of rb and fail to bind to rb mutant derive from patient with retinoblastoma .
co-immunoprecipitation experiment demonstrate an association between elf-1 and rb in rest normal human t cell .
after t cell activation , the phosphorylation of rb result in the release of elf-1 , which be correlate temporally with the activation of elf-1 -mediated transcription .
overexpression of a phosphorylation-defective form of rb inhibit elf-1 -dependent transcription during t cell activation .
these result demonstrate that rb interact specifically with a lineage-restricted ets transcription factor .
this regulated interaction may be important for the coordination of lineage-specific effector function such a lymphokine production with cell cycle progression in activate t cell .
in situ rt-pcr detection of epstein-barr virus immediate-early transcript in cd4+ and cd8+ t lymphocyte .
aid -related epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -associated t cell lymphoma be emerge a a new , distinct histopathological entity .
the pathway whereby ebv infect t cell as well a the initial ebv transcriptional program in t cell have not be establish .
in order to shed light on the early event of the ebv infection of t cell , we have use in situ reverse transcription based polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) to study the initial ebv transcriptional program in homogeneous cd4+ and cd8+ lymphocyte .
follow ebv infection , epstein-barr nuclear antigen ( ebna ) expression could be detect in t rosetting cd4+ and cd8+ t lymphocyte .
only a few cell show viral capsid antigen ( vca ) .
ebv immediate-early gene transcript ( bzlf1 , brlf1 , and bmlf1 ) encode in the bamhi z , r , and m fragment could be detect by in situ rt-pcr in the ebv producer cell line b95.8 .
both bzlf1 and brlf1 immediate-early transcript , but not bmlf1 transcript , could be detect in individual cd4+ and cd8+ t cell infect with ebv .
demonstration of ebv mrna transcript encode immediate-early transcriptional transactivators in ebv -infected t cell provide the first evidence for a possible mechanism whereby ebv could contribute to t cell proliferation and ebv -associated t cell malignancy .
[ change in level of leucocytic estrogen receptor in patient with menopausal type ii diabetes and it significance ]
the number of estrogen receptor ( er ) in human peripheral leucocyte in 12 woman with menopausal type ii diabetes be measure with radio-ligand binding method .
the result be compare with those of 12 menopausal woman without diabetes and 12 normal woman of childbearing age .
it be find that the number of er in the patient be significantly decrease .
our data indicate that decrease of er level in leukocyte may be related to the pathogenesis of type ii diabetes in menopausal period .
inhibition of nf-kappa b activation in human t-cell line by anetholdithiolthione .
nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b be a redox sensitive cytosolic transcription factor .
redox regulation of nf-kappa b have be implicate in the activation of the human immuno-deficiency virus ( hiv ) .
therefore , inhibition of nf-kappa b activation may be an effective strategy for acquire immunodeficiency syndrome therapy .
anetholdithiolthione ( adt , 5-[p-methoxyphenyl]-3h-1,2-dithiol-3-thione ) be an antioxidant which have be use to protect against acetaminophen- and ccl4- induced hepatotoxicity , lipid peroxidation , radiation injury , and also have be use clinically a an anti-choleretic agent .
the present study examine the effect of adt pretreatment on nf-kappa b activation in response to a variety of stimulus such a h2o2 , phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) or tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) .
pma and tnf alpha induced activation of ( nf ) -kappa b in human jurkat t-cells be partially inhibit by adt ( 0.1 mm ) pretreatment .
adt ( 0.1 mm ) also inhibit h2o2 induced activation of the transcription factor in the peroxide sensitive human wurzburg t-cells .
furthermore , adt treated wurzburg cell have significantly high glutathione level a compare with untreated cell .
h2o2 induced lipid peroxidation in wurzburg cell be remarkably inhibit by adt pretreatment .
adt , a pro- glutathione antioxidant , be observe to be capable of modulate nf-kappa b activation .
cloning and characterization of the murine b-cell specific transcriptional coactivator bob1 .
from a murine b-cell cdna-library we have clone a cdna encode the murine b-cell specific coactivator mbob1 .
the protein be the murine homologue to the recently describe human coactivator bob1 ( hbob1 ) , also refer to a obf-1 or oca-b .
we have also characterize the genomic mbob1 clone .
analysis of it intron-exon structure have allow identification of a c-terminal splice variant .
mbob1 be b-cell restricted , and be find in all b-cell line represent different stage of b-cell differentiation .
mbob1 interact with the octamer transcription factor oct-1 and oct-2 and stimulate transcription mediate by these factor .
interleukin-6 promote multiple myeloma cell growth via phosphorylation of retinoblastoma protein .
interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) mediate autocrine and paracrine growth of multiple myeloma ( mm ) cell and inhibit tumor cell apoptosis .
abnormality of retinoblastoma protein ( prb ) and mutation of rb gene have be report in up to 70 % of mm patient and 80 % of mm-derived cell line .
because dephosphorylated ( activate ) prb block transition from g1 to s phase of the cell cycle whereas phosphorylated ( inactivate ) prb release this growth arrest , we characterize the role of prb in il-6 -mediated mm cell growth .
both phosphorylated and dephosphorylated prb be express in all serum-starved mm patient cell and mm-derived cell line , but prb be predominantly in it phosphorylated form .
in mm cell that proliferate in response to il-6 , exogenous il-6 downregulated dephosphorylated prb and decrease dephosphorylated prb -e2f complex .
importantly , culture of mm cell with rb antisense , but not rb sense , oligonucleotide ( odn ) trigger il-6 secretion and proliferation in mm cell ; however , proliferation be only partially inhibit by neutralize anti- il-6 monoclonal antibody ( moab ) .
in contrast to mm cell , normal splenic b cell express dephosphorylated prb .
although cd40 ligand ( cd40l ) trigger a shift from dephosphorylated to phosphorylated prb and proliferation of b cell , the addition of exogenous il-6 to cd40l -treated b cell do not alter either prb or proliferation , a observe in mm cell .
these result suggest that phosphorylated prb be constitutively express in mm cell and that il-6 far shift prb from it dephosphorylated to it phosphorylated form , thereby promote mm cell growth via two mechanism ; by decrease the amount of e2f bind by dephosphorylated prb due to reduce dephosphorylated prb , thereby release growth arrest ; and by upregulating il-6 secretion by mm cell and related il-6 -mediated autocrine tumor cell growth .
identification of transcription factor express during atra-induced neutrophil differentiation of hl60 cell .
a recent clinical therapeutic initiative have be the use of chemical agent which induce the leukaemic cell to overcome their block in differentiation .
in order to understand this block the cascade of molecular event need to be characterize .
haemopoietic differentiation be ultimately control at the level of gene transcription which be mediate by an array of transcription factor .
many transcription factor contain similar structural protein sequence , and we have use an rt-pcr -based approach to isolate sequence , from transcription factor gene family which share similar domain .
degenerate primer correspond to the tfiiia zinc-finger consensus amino acid sequence and to the pou-homeodomain and pou-specific domain be use to amplify gene on the basis that they contain similarity in structural motif share within these family of transcription factor .
a serum-independent hl60 cell line be induce towards the neutrophil lineage by treatment with all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) for 24 h .
cd38+ cell commit towards this lineage be enriched and a population of these cell treat with dihydroxyvitamin d3 to induce neutrophil maturation .
rna extract from uninduced , atra -induced cd38+ cell , and vitamin d3 treated maturing cell culture be amplify use the degenerate primer .
pcr fragment be clone , sequence , cluster into homologous group , and the group sequence search on the genbank database .
the oct 1 transcription factor , and a very close homologue , kiaa0144 , be identify use the pou family primer .
the zinc-finger primer identify three zinc-finger gene .
the pattern of gene expression be suggest from the number of clone in each group at neutrophil commitment and maturation .
the differential expression of the gene in the zinc finger and pou family will lead to a good understanding of the cascade of gene expression which occur follow atra -induced differentiation .
photoaffinity labeling of plasma membrane receptor for aldosterone from human mononuclear leukocyte .
non-genomic effect of aldosterone on the sodium-proton-antiport have be show in human mononuclear leukocyte which could be related to a new aldosterone membrane receptor .
in the present paper plasma membrane from human mononuclear leukocyte be covalently photolabeled with a [125i]-aldosterone derivative .
sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis show significant aldosterone binding at a molecular weight of approximately 50000 dalton which be absent with 1 microm cold aldosterone , but not cortisol in the bind medium .
the presence of the sulfhydryl agent dithiothreitol do not affect result suggest the absence of disulfide bridge in the steroid binding domain of the receptor .
these data be the first to define the molecular weight of the membrane receptor for aldosterone .
human neutrophil elastase proteolytically activate the platelet integrin alphaiibbeta3 through cleavage of the carboxyl terminus of the alphaiib subunit heavy chain .
involvement in the potentiation of platelet aggregation .
neutrophil elastase ( ne ) and cathepsin g be two serine proteinase release concomitantly by stimulate polymorphonuclear neutrophil .
we previously demonstrate that while ne by itself do not activate human platelet , it strongly enhance the weak aggregation induce by a threshold concentration of cathepsin g ( threshold of cathepsin g ) ( renesto , p. , and chignard , m. ( 1993 ) blood 82 , 139-144 ) .
the aim of this study be to delineate the molecular mechanism involve in this potentiation process .
two main piece of data prompt u to focus on the activation of the platelet fibrinogen receptor , the alphaiibbeta3 integrin .
first , previous study have show this integrin to be particularly prone to proteolytic regulation of it function .
second , we find that the potentiating activity of ne on the threshold of cathepsin g -induced platelet aggregation be strictly dependent on the presence of exogenous fibrinogen .
use flow cytometry analysis , ne be show to trigger a time-dependent binding of pac-1 and ap-5 , two monoclonal antibody specific for the activate and ligand-occupied conformers of alphaiibbeta3 .
furthermore , the potentiated aggregation be show to result from an increase capacity of platelet to bind fibrinogen .
indeed , the combination of ne and threshold of cathepsin g increase the binding of pac-1 approximately 5.5-fold over basal value measure on nontreated platelet , whereas this binding raise only by approximately 3-fold in threshold of cathepsin g -stimulated platelet ( p < 0.05 ) .
by contrast , phosphatidic acid accumulation , pleckstrin phosphorylation , and calcium mobilization produce by the combination of ne and threshold of cathepsin g be not significantly different from those measure with threshold of cathepsin g alone ( p > 0.05 ) , indicate that the phospholipase c /protein kinase c pathway be not involve in the potentiation of aggregation .
the foregoing data , as well a the requirement of catalytically active ne to trigger alphaiibbeta3 activation and potentiate threshold of cathepsin g -initiated platelet aggregation , lead u to examine whether the structure of this integrin be affect by ne .
immunoblot and flow cytometry analysis reveal a limited proteolysis of the carboxyl terminus of the alphaiib subunit heavy chain ( alphaiibh ) , a judge by the disappearance of the epitope for the monoclonal antibody pmi-1 .
mass spectrometry study perform on a synthetic peptide map over the cleavage domain of alphaiibh predict the site of proteolysis a located between val837 and asp838 .
treatment by ne of atp-depleted platelet or chinese hamster ovary cell express human recombinant alphaiibbeta3 clearly establish that activation of the integrin be independent of signal transduction event and be concomitant with the proteolysis of alphaiibh .
function of nf-kappa b /rel binding site in the major histocompatibility complex class ii invariant chain promoter be dependent on cell-specific binding of different nf-kappa b /rel subunit .
the promoter of the human major histocompatibility complex class ii-associated invariant-chain gene ( ii ) contain two nf-kappa b /rel bind site located at -109 to -118 ( ii kappa b-1 ) and -163 to -172 ( ii kappa b-2 ) from the transcription start site .
we report here that the differential function of each of these nf-kappa b /rel site in several distinct cell type depend on cell-specific binding of nf-kappa b /rel transcription factor .
ii kappa b-1 be a positive regulatory element in b-cell line and in the ii-expressing t-cell line , h9 , but act a a negative regulatory element in myelomonocytic and glia cell line .
in vivo protein-dna contact be detectable at ii kappa b-1 in cell line in which this site be functional a either a positive or negative regulator .
electrophoretic mobility supershift assay determine that member of the nf-kappa b /rel family of transcription factor can bind to this site in vitro and that dna-binding complex that contain p50 , p52 , p65 , and crel correlate with positive regulation whereas the presence of p50 correlate with negative regulation .
ii kappa b-2 be a site of positive regulation in b-cell line and a site of negative regulation in h9 t cell , myelomonocytic , and glial cell line .
in vivo occupancy of this site be observe only in the h9 t-cell line .
again , in vitro supershift study indicate that the presence of p50 , p52 , p65 , and crel correlate with positive function whereas the presence of only p50 and p52 correlate with negative function .
this differential binding of specific nf-kappa b /rel subunit be likely to mediate the disparate function of these two nf-kappa b /rel binding site .
the myeloid zinc finger gene , mzf-1 , regulate the cd34 promoter in vitro .
mzf-1 be a c2h2 zinc finger gene encode a putative transcriptional regulator of myeloid differentiation .
the mzf-1 protein contain 13 c2h2 zinc finger arrange in bipartite dna binding domain contain zinc finger through 4 and , in the carboxy-terminus , 5 through 13 .
we previously identify the dna consensus binding site recognize by the two dna binding domain .
to assess the transcription regulatory function of mzf-1 , the full-length mzf-1 coding region be fuse to the dna binding domain of the yeast transactivator gal4 .
the expression vector be cotransfected with the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) reporter gene regulate by the thymidine kinase promoter contain gal4 dna binding site into nih 3t3 , 293 , k562 , and jurkat cell line .
mzf-1 repress cat reporter gene expression via gal4 binding site in the nonhematopoietic cell line nih 3t3 and 293 .
in contrast , mzf-1 activate cat reporter gene expression in the hematopoietic cell line k562 and jurkat .
the mzf-1 binding site be present in the promoter of several gene express during myeloid differentiation , include the cd34 promoter .
mzf-1 transcriptional regulation of this physiologically relevant promoter be assess in both hematopoietic and nonhematopoietic cell line .
recombinant mzf-1 protein specifically bind to the consensus binding site in the cd34 promoter in mobility shift assay .
mzf-1 expression vector be cotransfected with the luciferase reporter plasmid regulate by the cd34 promoter into both nonhematopoietic and hematopoietic cell line .
a with the heterologous dna binding domain , mzf-1 repress reporter gene expression in nonhematopoietic cell line and activate expression in hematopoietic cell line .
activation of cd34 expression in hematopoietic cell line be dependent on the presence of intact mzf-1 binding site .
the cell type-specific regulation of the cd34 promoter by mzf-1 suggest the presence of tissue-specific regulators/adapters or differential mzf-1 modification that determine mzf-1 transcriptional regulatory function .
inhibition of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 replication by a tat-activated , transduce interferon gene : target expression to human immunodeficiency virus type 1 -infected cell .
we have examine the feasibility of use interferon ( ifn ) gene transfer a a novel approach to anti- human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) therapy in this study .
to limit expression of a transduce hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) -ifna2 ( the new approved nomenclature for ifn gene be use throughout this article ) hybrid gene to the hiv-1-infected cell , hiv-1 ltr be modify .
deletion of the nf-kappa b element of the hiv-1 ltr significantly inhibit tat -mediated transactivation in t-cell line , as well a in a monocyte line , u937 .
replacement of the nf-kappa b element in the hiv-1 ltr by a dna fragment derive from the 5'-flanking region of ifn-stimulated gene 15 ( isg15 ) , contain the ifn-stimulated response element , partially restore tat -mediated activation of ltr in t cell as well a in monocyte .
insertion of this chimeric promoter ( isg15 ltr ) upstream of the human ifna2 gene direct high level of ifn synthesis in tat-expressing cell , while this promoter be not responsive to tumor necrosis factor alpha -mediated activation .
isg15-ltr-ifn hybrid gene insert into the retrovirus vector be transduce into jurkat and u937 cell .
select transfected clone produce low level of ifn a ( ifna ) constitutively , and their ability to express interleukin-2 and interleukin-2 receptor upon stimulation with phytohemagglutinin and phorbol myristate acetate be retain .
enhancement of ifna synthesis observe upon hiv-1 infection result in significant inhibition of hiv-1 replication for a period of at least 30 day .
virus isolate from ifna -producing cell be able to replicate in the u937 cell but do not replicate efficiently in u937 cell transduce with the ifna gene .
these result suggest that target ifn synthesis to hiv-1 -infected cell be an attainable goal and that autocrine ifn synthesis result in a long-lasting and permanent suppression of hiv-1 replication .
experimental expression in mouse and spontaneous expression in human sle of polyomavirus t-antigen .
a molecular basis for induction of antibody to dna and eukaryotic transcription factor .
we have previously demonstrate that experimental expression of the polyomavirus transcription factor t-antigen have the potential to induce anti-dna antibody in mouse .
two set of independent evidence be present here that demonstrate a biological relevance for this model .
first , we describe result demonstrate that mouse inoculate with t-antigen-expressing plasmid produce antibody , not only to t-antigen and dna , but also to the dna-binding eukaryotic transcription factor tata-binding protein ( tbp ) , and to the camp-response-element-binding protein ( creb ) .
secondly , we investigate whether polyomavirus reactivation occur in sle patient , and whether antibody to t-antigen , dna , and to tbp and creb be link to such event .
both within and among these sle patient , frequent polyomavirus reactivations be observe that could not be explain by certain rearrangement of the noncoding control region , nor by corticosteroid treatment .
link to these event , antibody to t-antigen , dna , tbp , and creb be detect , identical to what we observe in mouse .
antibody recognize double-stranded dna be confine to patient with frequent polyomavirus reactivations .
the result describe here indicate that cognate interaction of b cell recognize dna or dna-associated protein and t cell recognize t antigen have take place a a consequence of complex formation between t ag and dna in vivo in the context of polyomavirus reactivations .
t-cell functional region of the human il-3 proximal promoter .
the human interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) gene be express almost exclusively in activate t cell .
it expression be regulate at both the transcriptional and post-transcriptional level .
we have previously show that treatment of jurkat t cell with phytohemaglutinin ( pha ) and the phorbol ester , pma , activate transcription initiation from the il-3 gene .
to define the region of the gene require for transcription activation , we generate a series of reporter construct contain different region of the il-3 gene 5' and 3' flanking sequence .
both positive and negative regulatory element be identify in the proximal 5' flanking region of the il-3 gene .
the promoter region between -173 and -60 contain the strong activate element .
the transcription factor ap-1 could bind to this positive activator region of the promoter .
we also examine the function of the il-3 ck-1/ck-2 element that be present in many cytokine gene and find that they act a a repressor of basal level expression when clone upstream of a heterologous promoter but be also inducible by pma /pha .
the tumour associated cell surface antigen a6h be costimulatory for human cd4+ but not cd8+ t cell .
the a6h monoclonal antibody ( mab ) recognize a 120,000-140,000 mw antigen that be express at similar density on 85-90 % of human cd4+ and cd8+ t cell and on renal cell carcinoma .
the binding of the a6h mab induce a costimulatory signal in anti-cd3 activate t cell .
in the present report , we show that a6h costimulated cell proliferation and cytokine production in purify cd4+ t cell .
unexpectedly , the cd8+ t-cell subpopulation fail to respond .
cd4+ t cell costimulated with the a6h mab upregulated cd80 , cd86 , cd71 , interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) r alpha , il-2r beta and il-2r gamma , while no corresponding up-regulation of these cell surface molecule be see in cd8+ t cell .
in order to investigate the nature of the a6h mab costimulus at the transcriptional level we have examine induction of the transcription factor oct-1 , ap-1 and nf-kappa b which be know to be transcriptional regulator of several cytokine and cytokine receptor gene , include the il-2 and il-2r gene .
co-ligation of the a6h antigen and the cd3 complex induce expression of the transcription factor ap-1 in cd4+ t cell , whereas no increase in nf-kappa b and octamer-binding ( oct ) protein be see compare to t cell stimulate with anti-cd3 alone .
furthermore , no induction of ap-1 be see in a6h costimulated cd8+ t cell .
these result suggest that both proximal step in cd8+ t-cell activation as well a the late phase be unresponsive to a6h ligation .
molecular difference of the a6h molecule or distinct regulation of the a6h transduced ap-1 activation pathway may exist in cd4+ and cd8+ t cell subpopulation .
cloning and functional characterization of early b-cell factor , a regulator of lymphocyte-specific gene expression .
early b-cell factor ( ebf ) be identify previously a a tissue-specific and differentiation stage-specific dna-binding protein that participate in the regulation of the pre-b and b lymphocyte-specific mb-1 gene .
partial amino acid sequence obtain from purify ebf be use to isolate cdna clone , which by multiple criterion encode ebf .
the recombinant polypeptide form sequence-specific complex with the ebf -binding site in the mb-1 promoter .
the cdna hybridize to multiple transcript in pre-b and b-cell line , but transcript be not detect at significant level in plasmacytoma , t-cell , and nonlymphoid cell line .
expression of recombinant ebf in transfected nonlymphoid cell strongly activate transcription from reporter plasmid contain functional ebf -binding site .
analysis of dna binding by deletion mutant of ebf identify an amino-terminal cysteine-rich dna-binding domain lack obvious sequence similarity to known transcription factor .
dna-binding assay with cotranslated wild-type and truncated form of ebf indicate that the protein interact with it site a a homodimer .
deletion delineate a carboxy-terminal dimerization region contain two repeat of 15 amino acid that show similarity with the dimerization domain of basic-helix-loop-helix protein .
together , these data suggest that ebf represent a novel regulator of b lymphocyte-specific gene expression .
restoration of the epstein-barr virus zebra protein 's capacity to disrupt latency by the addition of heterologous activation region .
the zebra protein have a unique biological function among herpesviral protein .
it be responsible for the disruption of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) latency and the induction of the lytic cycle .
zebra be a bzip transcriptional activator which bind a a dimer to 7-bp response element within ebv promoter and be directly involve in the stimulation of virus replication at the ebv lytic origin .
we have employ the zebra /ebv biological system to test whether a heterologous activation domain can substitute for another activation domain ( the zebra domain ) .
the zebra activation region be replace with the potent acid activation region from the herpes simplex virus vp16 protein or with the activation region of the ebv r protein .
both chimera be find to transactivate model and native promoter at equivalent or good level than zebra itself .
activation be not target- or cell-type dependent , nor be it dependent on the presence of virus .
these activation domain restore zebra 's ability to induce early antigen and to stimulate origin replication to level that be equal to or great than those of wild type .
these study suggest that the specificity of some of the known biological function of zebra be not dependent upon the nature of the activation domain present within zebra .
mutual regulation of the transcriptional activator nf-kappa b and it inhibitor , i kappa b-alpha .
the nk-kappa b transcription factor complex be sequester in the cytoplasm by the inhibitory protein i kappa b-alpha ( mad-3 ) .
various cellular stimulus relieve this inhibition by mechanism largely unknown , lead to nf-kappa b nuclear localization and transactivation of it target gene .
it be demonstrate here with human t lymphocyte and monocyte that different stimulus , include tumor necrosis factor alpha and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , cause rapid degradation of i kappa b-alpha , with concomitant activation of nf-kappa b , follow by a dramatic increase in i kappa b-alpha mrna and protein synthesis .
transfection study reveal that the i kappa b-alpha mrna and the encode protein be potently induce by nf-kappa b and by homodimers of p65 and of c-rel .
we propose a model in which nf-kappa b and i kappa b-alpha mutually regulate each other in a cycle : saturating amount of the inhibitory i kappa b-alpha protein be destroy upon stimulation , allow rapid activation of nf-kappa b .
subsequently , i kappa b-alpha mrna and protein level be quickly induce by the activate nf-kappa b .
this resurgence of i kappa b-alpha protein act to restore an equilibrium in which nf-kappa b be again inhibit .
ciita b-cell-specific promoter suppression in mhc class ii -silenced cell hybrid .
in this study , various set of somatic cell hybrid , generate by the fusion of epithelial cell line with b-lymphoblastoid cell line , be analyze for the expression of major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii antigen .
we first demonstrate , in human and mouse intraspecies hybrid , the coordinate suppression of mhc class ii , ii ( invariant chain ) and hla-dm gene transcription , and the release of the silencing by the addition of interferon gamma .
use interspecies hybrid , the segregation of human chromosome allow u to establish that mhc class ii extinction be link to the presence in the hybrid of the chromosome from the epithelial fusion partner .
moreover , our data provide evidence that the expression pattern of mhc class ii mrna be correlate with that of the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) , suggest that ciita be the actual target of the silencing .
to gain further insight into the suppression phenomenon we perform luciferase assay which show that silencing affect the activity of the b-cell-specific promoter of ciita .
these result therefore demonstrate that the mhc class ii gene silencing in somatic cell hybrid be due to an active suppression of one of the promoter of the ciita gene , mediate by the epithelial cell fusion partner .
comparison of htlv-i basal transcription and expression of creb/atf-1/crem family member in peripheral blood mononuclear cell and jurkat t cell .
htlv-i be the etiologic agent of adult t-cell leukemia /lymphoma and be associate with tropical spastic paraparesis/ htlv-i -associated myelopathy .
follow integration into the host cell genome , htlv-i replication be regulate by both host and viral mechanism that control transcription .
low level of viral transcription ( basal transcription ) occur before expression of the virally encode tax protein ( tax -mediated transcription ) .
member of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate ( camp ) response element binding ( creb ) /activating transcription factor 1 ( atf-1 ) family of transcription factor bind three 21-bp repeat ( tax-responsive element-1 , or tre-1 ) within the viral promoter and be important for basal and tax-mediated transcription .
use mitogen stimulated and quiescent peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) and jurkat cell , we compare difference in basal transcription and amount and binding of transcription factor with tre-1 .
we demonstrate that amount of transcriptionally active phosphorylated creb protein ( p-creb ) differ between activate pbmc and jurkat cell .
follow stimulation , p-creb level remain elevated in pbmc for up to 24 hour whereas creb be dephosphorylated in jurkat cell within 4 hour follow stimulation .
the difference in p-creb level between pbmc and jurkat cell be directly correlate with basal transcription of htlv-i in the two cell type .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , we determine that the pattern of band migration differ between the two cell type .
these data demonstrate that pbmc differentially regulate basal htlv-i transcription compare with jurkat t cell , and this differential regulation be due , in part to differential phosphorylation and binding of creb/atf-1 to tre-1 in the htlv-i promoter .
we demonstrate the utility of use primary lymphocyte model to study htlv-i transcription in the context of cell signaling and suggest that activate pbmc maintain elevated level of p-creb , which promote basal htlv-i transcription and enhance viral persistence in vivo .
staphylococcal enterotoxin modulate interleukin 2 receptor expression and ligand-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the janus protein- tyrosine kinase 3 ( jak3 ) and signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat protein ) .
staphylococcal enterotoxin ( se ) stimulate t cell express the appropriate variable region beta chain of ( v beta ) t-cell receptor and have be implicate in the pathogenesis of several autoimmune disease .
depend on costimulatory signal , se induce either proliferation or anergy in t cell .
in addition , se can induce an interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) nonresponsive state and apoptosis .
here , we show that se induce dynamic change in the expression of and signal transduction through the il-2 receptor ( il-2r ) beta and gamma chain ( il-2r beta and il-2r gamma ) in human antigen-specific cd4+ t-cell line .
thus , after 4 hr of exposure to sea and seb , the expression of il-2r beta be down-regulated , il-2r gamma be slightly up-regulated , while il-2r alpha remain largely unaffected .
the change in the composition of il-2rs be accompany by inhibition of il-2 -induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the janus protein- tyrosine kinase 3 ( jak3 ) and signal transducer and activator of transcription call stat3 and stat5 .
in parallel experiment , il-2 -driven proliferation be inhibit significantly .
after 16 hr of exposure to se , the expression of il-2r beta remain low , while that of il2r alpha and il2r gamma be far up-regulated , and ligand-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of jak3 and stat protein be partly normalize .
yet , il-2 -driven proliferation remain profoundly inhibited , suggest that signaling event other than jak3 /stat activation have also be change follow se stimulation .
in conclusion , our data suggest that se can modulate il-2r expression and signal transduction involve the jak/stat pathway in cd4+ t-cell line .
jnk ( c-jun nh2-terminal kinase ) be a target for antioxidant in t lymphocyte .
ap-1 have be show to behave a a redox-sensitive transcription factor that can be activate by both oxidant and antioxidant stimulus .
however , the mechanism involve in the activation of ap-1 by antioxidant be largely unknown .
in this study we show that the structurally unrelated antioxidant agent pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) , butylate hydroxyanisole , and nacetylcysteine activate jnk ( c-jun nh2-terminal kinase ) in jurkat t cell .
this activation differ substantially from that mediate by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and ca2+ ionophore or produce by costimulation with antibody against the t cell receptor-cd3 complex and to cd28 .
the activation of jnk by classical t cell stimulus be transient , whereas that mediate by pdtc and butylate hydroxyanisole ( but not n-acetylcysteine ) be sustained .
the kinetics of jnk activation correlate with the expression of c-jun which be transient after stimulation with pma plus ionophore and prolong in response to pdtc , which also transiently induce c-fos .
in addition , jnk activation by pma plus ionophore be sensitive to inhibitor of signaling pathway involve ca2+ , protein kinase c , and tyrosine phosphorylation , which fail to inhibit the activation mediate by pdtc .
transfection of trans-dominant negative expression vector of ra and raf , together with ap-1 -dependent reporter construct , as well a western blot analysis use anti-erk ( extracellular signal-regulated kinase ) antibody , indicate that the ras/raf/erk pathway do not appear to mediate the effect of the antioxidant .
however , the combined treatment with pdtc and pma , two agent that synergize on ap-1 activation , result in the persistent phosphorylation of erk-2 .
in conclusion , our result identify jnk a a target of antioxidant agent which can be regulate differentially under oxidant and antioxidant condition .
cell type- and stage-specific expression of the cd20/b1 antigen correlate with the activity of a diverged octamer dna motif present in it promoter .
the cd20 ( b1 ) gene encode a b cell-specific protein involve in the regulation of human b cell proliferation and differentiation .
study with 5' deletion cd20 promoter-cat construct have previously reveal two region of the promoter between base -186 and -280 and between base -280 and -454 which contain positive regulatory element .
in this study we identify a sequence element present in the most proximal region located between base -214 and -201 , ttcttctaattaa , which be important in the high constitutive expression of cd20 in mature b cell and the induction of cd20 in pre-b cell .
this sequence element be refer to a the bat box and it deletion significantly reduce the activity of a cd20 promoter-cat construct in b cell .
mobility shift assay with various mutant probe and b cell nuclear extract demonstrate that the core sequence taat be essential for bind to this site .
cross competition experiment with an octamer sequence from the ig heavy chain promoter , the bat box , and a ta-rich sequence present in the cd21 promoter reveal that all three sequence bind the same nuclear protein suggest that the bat box binding protein be oct-1 and oct-2 .
southwestern blotting and uv cross-linking study confirm that the bat box binding protein be oct-1 and oct-2 .
the affinity of the bat box binding protein for the bat box be approximately 25-fold less than for the octamer sequence and the bat box binding protein dissociate from the bat box 10-fold more rapidly than from the octamer sequence .
despite this low affinity , a trimer of the bat box sequence be a efficiently transactivated by an oct-2 expression vector a be a trimer of the octamer sequence in hela cell .
the bat box and oct-2 be also implicate in the induction of cd20 in the pre-b cell line , pb-697 , via phorbol ester .
the induction of cd20 mrna be temporally associate with induction of oct-2 mrna and a bat box-deleted cd20-cat construct , in contrast to the wild type , be poorly induce by phorbol ester .
together these result suggest that the bat box binding protein be important in the b cell specific expression of cd20 and perhaps cd21 .
oncogenicity of human papillomavirus- or adenovirus- transformed cell correlate with resistance to lysis by natural killer cell .
the reason for the dissimilar oncogenicities of human adenovirus and human papillomaviruses ( hpv ) in human be unknown but may relate to difference in the capacity of the e1a and e7 protein to target cell for rejection by the host natural killer ( nk ) cell response .
a one test of this hypothesis , we compare the ability of e1a - and e7 -expressing human fibroblastic or keratinocyte-derived human cell to be selectively kill by either unstimulated or interferon ( ifn ) -activated nk cell .
cell express the e1a oncoprotein be selectively kill by unstimulated nk cell , while the same parental cell but express the hpv type 16 ( hpv-16 ) or hpv-18 e7 oncoprotein be resistant to nk cell lysis .
the ability of ifn-activated nk cell to selectively kill virally transform cell depend on ifn 's ability to induce resistance to nk cell lysis in normal ( i.e. , non-viral oncogene-expressing ) but not virally transform cell .
e1a block ifn 's induction of cytolytic resistance , result in the selective lysis of adenovirus-transformed cell by ifn -activated nk cell .
the extent of ifn -induced nk cell killing of e1a -expressing cell be proportional to the level of e1a expression and correlate with the ability of e1a to block ifn -stimulated gene expression in target cell .
in contrast , e7 block neither ifn -stimulated gene expression nor ifn 's induction of cytolytic resistance , thereby preclude the selective lysis of hpv -transformed cell by ifn -activated nk cell .
in conclusion , e1a expression mark cell for destruction by the host nk cell response , whereas the e7 oncoprotein lack this activity .
multiple p21ras effector pathway regulate nuclear factor of activate t cell .
the transcription factor , nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) be a major target for p21ras and calcium signalling pathway in the il-2 gene and be induce by p21ras signal act in synergy with calcium /calcineurin signal .
one p21ras effector pathway involve the map kinase erk-2 , and we have examine it role in nfat regulation .
expression of dominant negative mapkk-1 prevent nfat induction .
constitutively active mapkk-1 fully activate erk-2 and the transcription factor elk-1 , but do not substitute for activate p21ras and synergize with calcium /calcineurin signal to induce nfat .
expression of dominant negative n17rac also prevent tcr and p21ras activation of nfat , but without interfere with the erk-2 pathway .
the transcriptional activity of the nfat binding site be mediate by a complex comprise a member of the nfat group and ap-1 family protein .
the induction of ap-1 by p21ras also require rac-1 function .
activate rac-1 could mimic activate p21ras to induce ap-1 but not to induce nfat .
moreover , the combination of activate mapkk-1 and rac-1 could not substitute for activate p21ras and synergize with calcium signal to induce nfat .
thus , p21ras regulation of nfat in t cell require the activity of multiple effector pathway include those regulate by mapkk-1 /erk-2 and rac-1 .
fcgamma receptor -mediated mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in monocyte be independent of ra .
receptor for the fc portion of immunoglobulin molecule ( fcr ) present on leukocyte cell membrane mediate a large number of cellular response that be very important in host defense , include phagocytosis , cell cytotoxicity , production and secretion of inflammatory mediator , and modulation of the immune response .
cross-linking of fcr with immune complex lead , first to activation of protein- tyrosine kinase .
the molecular event that follow and that transduce signal from these receptor to the nucleus be still poorly define .
we have investigate the signal transduction pathway from fc receptor that lead to gene activation and production of cytokine in monocyte .
cross-linking of fcr , on the thp-1 monocytic cell line , by immune complex result in both activation of the transcription factor nf-kappab and interleukin 1 production .
these response be completely block by tyrosine kinase inhibitor .
in contrast , expression of dominant negative mutant of ra and raf-1 , in these cell , do not have any effect on fcr -mediated nuclear factor activation , suggest that the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) signaling pathway be not use by these receptor .
however , mapk activation be easily detect by in vitro kinase assay , after fcr cross-linking with immune complex .
use the specific mapk /extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase ( mapk kinase ) inhibitor pd98059 , we find that mapk activation be necessary for fcr -dependent activation of the nuclear factor nf-kappab .
these result strongly suggest that the signaling pathway from fc receptor lead to expression of different gene important to leukocyte biology , initiate with tyrosine kinase and require mapk activation ; but in contrast to other tyrosine kinase receptor , fcr -mediated mapk activation do not involve ra and raf .
interleukin-4 signaling in b lymphocyte from patient with x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency .
interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) be an important cytokine for b and t lymphocyte function and mediate it effect via a receptor that contain gammac .
b cell derive from patient with x-linked severe combined immunodeficiency ( x-scid ) be deficient in gammac and provide a useful model in which to dissect the role of this subunit in il-4 -mediated signaling .
we find that although il-4 stimulation of x-scid b cell do not result in janus tyrosine kinase-3 ( jak3 ) phosphorylation , other il-4 substrate include jak1 and irs-1 be phosphorylated .
additionally , we detect signal transducer and activator of transcription 6 ( stat6 ) tyrosine phosphorylation and dna binding activity in x-scid b cell with a wide range of gammac mutation .
however , reconstitution of these x-scid b cell with gammac enhance il-4 -mediated response include stat6 phosphorylation and dna binding activity and result in increase cd23 expression .
thus , gammac be not necessary to trigger il-4 -mediated response in b cell , but it presence be important for optimal il-4 -signaling .
these result suggest that two distinct il-4 signaling pathway exist .
cd80 and cd86 be not equivalent in their ability to induce the tyrosine phosphorylation of cd28 .
ligation of either cd80 ( b7-1 ) or cd86 ( b7-2 ) , two principal ligand for cd28 , be think to skew the immune response toward th1 or th2 differentiation .
we have examine early signal transduction pathway recruit follow t cell stimulation with either cd80 or cd86 .
purify human peripheral t cell or jurkat t cell be stimulate with chinese hamster ovary ( cho ) cell express either human cd80 ( cho-cd80 ) or human cd86 ( cho-cd86 ) or with anti- cd28 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) .
in the presence of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , both cho-cd80 and cho-cd86 , like anti-cd28 mab , be capable of stimulate cytokine production from both human peripheral t cell and jurkat t cell .
both cho-cd80 and cho-cd86 , in the presence of anti-cd3 mab , costimulated nfat -dependent transcriptional activation .
several intracellular signal protein , such a cbl and vav , be phosphorylated on tyrosine in response to cd80 , cd86 , and anti-cd28 mab .
surprisingly , although stimulation of jurkat t cell with either cho-cd80 or anti-cd28 mab result in robust tyrosine phosphorylation of cd28 itself , ligation with cho-cd86 be unable to induce detectable cd28 tyrosyl phosphorylation over a range of stimulation condition .
in addition , the association of phosphoinositide 3-kinase with cd28 and enhance tyrosine phosphorylation of phospholipase cgamma be see after anti-cd28 mab and cho-cd80 stimulation but to a much less extent after cho-cd86 stimulation .
thus , ligation of cd28 with either cd80 or cd86 lead to shared early signal transduction event such a the tyrosine phosphorylation of cbl and vav , to nfat -mediated transcriptional activation , and to the costimulation of interleukin-2 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor production .
however , cd80 and cd86 also induce distinct signal transduction pathway include the tyrosine phosphorylation of cd28 and phospholipase cgamma1 and the sh2 -dependent association of phosphoinositide 3-kinase with cd28 .
these quantitative , if not qualitative , difference between signaling initiate by these two ligand for cd28 may contribute to functional difference ( e.g. th1 or th2 differentiation ) in t cell response .
cloning of murine tcf-1 , a t cell-specific transcription factor interact with functional motif in the cd3-epsilon and t cell receptor alpha enhancer .
cd3 -epsilon gene expression be confine to the t cell lineage .
we have recently identify and clone a human transcription factor , tcf-1 , that bind to a functional element in the t lymphocyte-specific enhancer of cd3-epsilon .
in a panel of human cell line , tcf-1 expression be restricted to t lineage cell .
tcf-1 belong to a novel family of gene that contain the so-called high mobility group 1 ( hmg ) box .
here we report the cloning of murine tcf-1 .
two splice alternative be identify that be not previously observe in human tcf-1 .
murine and human tcf-1 display a 95.5 % overall amino acid homology .
recombinant murine and human tcf-1 recognize the same sequence motif in the cd3-epsilon enhancer a judge by gel retardation and methylation interference assay .
with the murine cdna clone several aspect of tcf-1 be analyze .
first , deletion analysis reveal that a region of tcf-1 contain the hmg box be sufficient for sequence-specific binding .
second , by high stringency northern blotting and in situ hybridization , tcf-1 expression be show to be confine to the thymus and to the t cell area of the spleen .
third , tcf-1 bind specifically to a functional t cell-specific element in the t cell receptor alpha ( tcr-alpha ) enhancer .
the t lineage-specific expression and the affinity for functional motif in the tcr-alpha and cd3-epsilon enhancer imply an important role for tcf-1 in the establishment of the mature t cell phenotype .
interstitial deletion constitute the major mechanism for loss of heterozygosity on chromosome 20q in polycythemia vera .
an acquire deletion of the long arm of chromosome 20 be a recurrent abnormality in myeloproliferative disorder , particularly polycythemia vera and myelodysplastic syndrome .
the association of 20q deletion with myeloid " stem cell " disorder suggest that the deletion mark the site of one or more gene , loss or inactivation of which play a role in the regulation of normal hematopoietic progenitor .
we have recently perform a detailed molecular analysis of 20q deletion in peripheral blood ( pb ) granulocyte and define a commonly delete region of 16 to 21 centimorgan ( cm ) .
to far reduce the size of the common delete region we have search for small deletion or mitotic recombination event , neither of which would be detect by conventional cytogenetics .
we have study 48 patient with polycythemia vera and four patient with idiopathic myelofibrosis .
in each case , cytogenetic analysis have either fail or have show no abnormality of chromosome 20 .
seventeen microsatellite marker that span the common delete region be use to search for loss of heterozygosity in granulocyte dna .
no instance of microsatellite instability be observe in a total of 880 comparison of granulocyte and t-cell dna .
granulocyte dna from four patient exhibit allele loss on 20q .
in each case the allele loss be cause by an interstitial deletion because heterozygosity at distal marker be retain and because quantitative southern blotting demonstrate hemizygosity .
loss of heterozygosity in pb granulocyte would be mask by the presence of significant number of normal granulocyte not derive from the malignant clone .
therefore , the human androgen receptor assay ( humara ) be use to determine granulocyte clonality .
in 21 of 27 informative female patient the majority of the granulocyte be clonally derive .
in 5 patient the granulocyte appear polyclonal and in 1 patient unilateral x inactivation be observe in both granulocyte and t cell .
these result show that , in the vast majority of patient present here , the failure to detect loss of heterozygosity can not be attribute to the presence of normal polyclonal granulocyte .
our result therefore show that allele loss on chromosome 20q in polycythemia vera do not commonly involve mitotic recombination or chromosome loss and that microsatellite instability be a rare event in this disorder .
cni-1493 inhibit monocyte/macrophage tumor necrosis factor by suppression of translation efficiency .
tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) mediate a wide variety of disease state include septic shock , acute and chronic inflammation , and cachexia .
recently , a multivalent guanylhydrazone ( cni-1493 ) develop a an inhibitor of macrophage activation be show to suppress tnf production and protect against tissue inflammation and endotoxin lethality [ bianchi , m. , ulrich , p. , bloom , o. , meistrell , m. , zimmerman , g.a. , schmidtmayerova , h. , bukrinsky , m. , donnelley , t. , bucala , r. , sherry , b. , manogue , k.r. , tortolani , a.j. , cerami , a. & tracey , k.j. ( 1995 ) mol.med.1 , 254-266 , and bianchi , m. , bloom , o. , raabe , t. , cohen , p. s. , chesney , j. , sherry , b. , schmidtmayerova , h. , zhang , x. , bukrinsky , m. , ulrich , p. , cerami , a. & tracey , j. ( 1996 ) j.exp.med. , in press ] .
we have now elucidate the mechanism by which cni-1493 inhibit macrophage tnf synthesis and show here that it act through suppression of tnf translation efficiency .
cni-1493 block neither the lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -induced increase in the expression of tnf mrna nor the translocation of nuclear factor nf-kappa b to the nucleus in macrophage activate by 15 min of lp stimulation , indicate that cni-1493 do not interfere with early nf-kappa b -mediated transcriptional regulation of tnf .
however , synthesis of the 26-kda membrane form of tnf be effectively block by cni-1493 .
far evidence for the translational suppression of tnf be give by experiment use chloram-phenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) construct contain element of the tnf gene that be involve in tnf translational regulation .
both the 5' and 3' untranslated region of the tnf gene be require to elicit maximal translational suppression by cni-1493 .
identification of the molecular target through which cni-_1493 inhibit tnf translation should provide insight into the regulation of macrophage activation and mechanism of inflammation .
[ regulatory effect of insulin on glucocorticoid receptor in human peripheral leukocyte ]
the regulatory effect of insulin on the specific bind power of glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) of human leukocyte be assess by the unoccupied receptor site capable of combine with [3h] labelled dexamethasone measure at 3 and 24 h after incubation with various concentration of insulin add to the medium .
after 3 h incubation the specific bind power with [3h] dex be decrease by 23.3 +/- 10.0 , 32.2 +/- 13.2 and 54.3 +/- 9.2 % ( p great than 0.05 , p great than 0.05 and p less than 0.01 a compare with the control value of 100 in the absence of insulin ) respectively in the presence of 20 mu/l ( physiological testing concentration ) , 200 mu/l ( physiological upper limit ) and 2,000 mu/l ( pharmacological concentration ) insulin in the incubation medium .
after 24 h incubation the decrease of these value increase respectively to 43.5 +/- 19.0 , 56.1 +/- 20.7 and 80.2 +/- 15.5 ( p less than 0.05 , p less than 0.01 and p less than 0.01 compare with control ) .
thus the inhibitory effect of insulin on the gr binding power be both dose- and time-dependent , which strongly suggest that gr be tonically control by insulin concentration change under physiological condition .
chromosome 1 aneusomy with 1p36 under-representation be related to histologic grade , dna aneuploidy , high c-erb b-2 and loss of bcl-2 expression in ductal breast carcinoma .
chromosome 1 abnormality with loss of 1p36 have be investigate in 95 breast-cancer sample by mean of a dual-target fluorescence in-situ hybridization ( fish ) technique use the puc 1.77 and p1-79 probe , specific for the 1q12 and 1p36 region , respectively .
abnormality for one or both probe be detect in 83/95 sample .
relative 1p36 under-representation be find in 79/95 .
the clinical relevance of these alteration be study by compare the fish result with several parameter currently use in breast-cancer pathology .
distinct pattern of chromosome 1 abnormality be find among the histologic type of breast carcinoma .
lobular or mucinous sample show few or no alteration , whereas most ductal sample have high chromosome 1 polysomy with under-representation of 1p36 .
in ductal carcinoma , chromosome 1 alteration increase with histologic grade , dna aneuploidy , loss of bcl-2 and high c-erb b-2 expression .
these association be find to be statistically significant .
no correlation between chromosome 1 alteration and nuclear grade , age , size , lymph-node involvement , hormonal receptor presence , proliferation activity or p53 protein expression be detect .
these result indicate the utility of this fish technique for a good definition of the biological characteristic of ductal carcinoma .
okadaic acid be a potent inducer of ap-1 , nf-kappa b , and tumor necrosis factor-alpha in human b lymphocyte .
treatment of human b lymphocyte with an optimal concentration of okadaic acid , an inhibitor of phosphatase 1 and 2a , result in the induction of the transcription factor , ap-1 and a marked increase in nf-kappa b level .
in contrast , no effect on the level of the octamer binding protein , oct-1 or oct-2 , be find .
since both ap-1 and nf-kappa b have be report to be important in the induction of the tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) gene we examine the effect of okadaic acid on tnf-alpha mrna level .
treatment with okadaic acid result in a striking increase in tnf-alpha mrna transcript within 1 h of stimulation and large amount of tnf-alpha be release into the culture medium .
although okadaic acid provide a potent inductive signal for ap-1 and nf-kappa b it do not induce either b cell proliferation or immunoglobulin secretion .
differential contribution of herpes simplex virus type 1 gene product and cellular factor to the activation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 provirus .
we have previously report that infection with herpes simplex virus type 1 ( hsv-1 ) activate expression of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) provirus in t cell .
activation of the hiv-1 provirus correlate with the activation of binding of 55- and 85- kda protein to the kappa b enhancer and binding of the 50-kda hlp-1 protein to the lbp-1 sequence of the hiv-1 long terminal repeat .
far examination of this system have show that the inhibition of hsv-1 replication by the antiviral drug acyclovir do not inhibit hsv-1-mediated induction of hiv-1 provirus .
surprisingly , the nf-kappa b and hlp-1 binding activity be substantially inhibit in acyclovir -treated cell .
in the transient-transfection assay , icp0 , but not icp4 , activate the hiv-1 long terminal repeat promoter region and the effect of icp0 be greatly enhance in the presence of the nf-kappa b binding protein , suggest that induction of the hiv-1 provirus involve cooperation between the hsv-1-activated cellular factor , nf-kappa b , and the virus-encoded transactivator , icp0 .
nf-kappa b a inducible transcriptional activator of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene .
the expression of the gene encode the granulocyte- macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) be induce upon activation of t cell with phytohemagglutinin and active phorbolester and upon expression of tax1 , a transactivating protein of the human t-cell leukemia virus type i .
the same agent induce transcription from the interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain and interleukin-2 gene , depend on promoter element that bind the inducible transcription factor nf-kappa b ( or an nf-kappa b -like factor ) .
we therefore test the possibility that the gm-csf gene be also regulate by a cognate motif for the nf-kappa b transcription factor .
a recent functional analysis by miyatake et al. ( s. miyatake , m. seiki , m. yoshida , and k. arai , mol. cell. biol. 8 : 5581-5587 , 1988 ) describe a short promoter region in the gm-csf gene that confer strong inducibility by t-cell-activating signal and tax1 , but no nf-kappa b -binding motif be identify .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , we show binding of purify human nf-kappa b and of the nf-kappa b activate in jurkat t cell to an oligonucleotide comprise the gm-csf promoter element responsible for mediate responsiveness to t-cell-activating signal and tax1 .
a show by a methylation interference analysis and oligonucleotide competition experiment , purify nf-kappa b bind at position -82 to -91 ( gggaactacc ) of the gm-csf promoter sequence with an affinity similar to that with which it bind to the biologically functional kappa b motif in the beta interferon promoter ( gggaaattcc ) .
two kappa b-like motif at position -98 to -108 of the gm-csf promoter be also recognize but with much low affinity .
our data provide strong evidence that the expression of the gm-csf gene follow t-cell activation be control by binding of the nf-kappa b transcription factor to a high-affinity binding site in the gm-csf promoter .
evidence for repression of il-2 gene activation in anergic t cell .
the induction of clonal anergy in a t cell inhibit il-2 secretion because of the development of a proximal signal transduction defect .
fusion of anergic murine t cell to human jurkat t leukemia cell and formation of heterokaryons fail to result in a complementation of this signaling defect and restoration of murine il-2 mrna inducibility .
instead , signal transduction to the human il-2 gene become disrupt .
heterokaryons form by the fusion of anergic murine t cell to normal murine t cell also fail to accumulate intracellular il-2 protein in response to stimulation either with the combination of cd3 and cd28 mabs or with ionomycin plus a protein kinase c -activating phorbol ester .
the result argue against a loss-of-function signaling defect a the sole basis for clonal anergy induction and document the presence of a dominant-acting repressor molecule that inhibit signal transduction to the il-2 gene within viable anergic t cell .
synergistic interaction between overlap bind site for the serum response factor and elk-1 protein mediate both basal enhancement and phorbol ester responsiveness of primate cytomegalovirus major immediate-early promoter in monocyte and t-lymphocyte cell type .
cytomegalovirus ( cmv ) infection be nonpermissive or persistent in many lymphoid and myeloid cell type but can be activate in differentiate macrophage .
we have show elsewhere that both the major immediate-early gene ( mie ) and lytic cycle infectious progeny virus expression can be induce in otherwise nonpermissive monocyte-like u-937 cell culture infect with either human cmv ( hcmv ) or simian cmv ( scmv ) by treatment with the phorbol ester 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) .
two multicopy basal enhancer motif within the scmv mie enhancer , namely , 11 copy of the 16-bp cyclic amp response element ( cre ) and 3 copy of novel 17-bp serum response factor ( srf ) binding site refer to a the sne ( srf/nfkappab-like element ) , as well a four classical nfkappab site within the hcmv version , contribute to tpa responsiveness in transient assay in monocyte and t- cell type .
the scmv sne site contain potential overlap core recognition binding motif for srf , rel/nfkappab , ets , and yy1 class transcription factor but fail to respond to either serum or tumor necrosis factor alpha .
therefore , to evaluate the mechanism of tpa responsiveness of the sne motif and of a related 16-bp see ( srf/ ets element ) motif find in the hcmv and chimpanzee cmv mie enhancer , we have examine the functional response and protein binding property of multimerized wild-type and mutant element add upstream to the scmv mie or simian virus 40 minimal promoter region in the u-937 , k-562 , hl-60 , thp-1 , and jurkat cell line .
unlike classical nfkappab site , neither the sne nor the see motif respond to phosphatase inhibition by okadaic acid .
however , the tpa responsiveness of both cmv element prove to involve synergistic interaction between the core srf binding site ( ccatatatgg ) and the adjacent invert ets binding motif ( ttcc ) , which correlate directly with formation of a bind tripartite complex contain both the cellular srf and elk-1 protein .
this protein complex be more abundant in u-937 , k-562 , and hela cell extract than in raji , hf , balb/c 3t3 , or hl-60 cell , but the binding activity be alter only twofold after tpa treatment .
a 40-fold stimulation of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase activity mediate by four tandem repeat of the sne could be induce within 2 h ( and up to 250-fold within 6 h ) after addition of tpa in dna-transfected u-937 cell , indicate that the stimulation appear likely to be a true protein kinase c -mediated signal transduction event rather than a differentiation response .
slight difference in the sequence of the core srf binding site compare with that of the classical c-fos promoter serum response element , together with difference in the spacing between the srf and ets motif , appear to account for the inability of the scmv snes to respond to serum induction .
activation of a novel gene in 3q21 and identification of intergenic fusion transcript with ecotropic viral insertion site i in leukemia .
we have identify a novel gene , gr6 , located within the leukemia breakpoint region of 3q21 , that be normally express in early fetal development but not in adult peripheral blood .
gr6 be activate in the ucsd-aml1 cell line and in a leukemic sample , both of which carry a t(3;3)(q21;q26) .
in ucsd-aml1 , we have also identify fusion transcript between the ecotropic viral insertion site i ( evi1 ) gene in 3q26 and gr6 and between evi1 and ribophorin i that map 30 kb telomeric to gr6 in 3q21 .
all fusion splice the 5' end of the 3q21 gene into exon 2 of the evi1 gene , an event that be similar to the normal intergenic splicing of mds1- evi1 and to those previously document in leukemia with t(3;21) and t(3;12) , in which acute myelogenous leukemia 1- evi1 fusion and etv6- evi1 fusion , respectively , occur .
the ribophorin i -evi1 fusion in particular may be a common occurrence in t(3;3) .
inducible binding to the c-fos serum response element during t cell activation be regulate by a phosphotyrosine-containing protein .
the proto-oncogene c-fos be an immediate-early gene , and one of the first gene transcribe after stimulation of most cell with a variety of ligand .
fo expression may be a pivotal event in convert ligand-receptor interaction at the membrane into functional modulation of cell phenotype .
the serum response element ( sre ) in the c-fos regulatory region participate in induction of transcription by various growth factor and by phorbol ester and subsequent squelching of transcription .
we show that an inducible protein complex ( band a ) bind to sre dna within 10 min after mitogenic stimulation of human pbl-t , and become nondetectable by 60 min .
band a contain the serum response factor plus additional factor ( s ) .
a protein that be phosphorylated on a tyrosine residue in rest pbl-t suppress binding of a component of band a to the sre motif .
upon stimulation of the cell , this protein no longer prevent binding of dna by band a , and suppression of binding be restore within 30 min .
the phosphorylated tyrosine residue itself be important for the protein-protein interaction .
specific glucocorticoid binding at different level of human motor activity .
we study the number of glucocorticoid receptor and dissociation constant in isolate human lymphocyte as well a blood concentration of hormone produce by the hypothalamic-hypophyseal-adrenocortical system in three experimental series : at normal ( 17 subject ) , decrease ( 10 subject , a 360-d head-down bed rest ) and increase ( 8 subject , physical exercise on bicycle ergometer ) level of motor activity .
in the first series we find that the number of glucocorticoid receptor and dissociation constant do not depend on the season , on the age of subject nor on cortisol concentration in blood .
in the second series we observe the following : at the end of the first month of bed rest the number of glucocorticoid receptor and receptor affinity significantly increase ; at the beginning of the third month of bed rest specific glucocorticoid binding significantly decrease and circadian rhythm of adrenocorticotropin and cortisol in blood vary markedly ; at the end of the sixth month of bed rest the number of glucocorticoid receptor return to prebed rest level and dissociation constant decrease .
in the third series physical exercise that induce an activation of the hypothalamic-hypophyseal-adrenocortical system ( maximal physical exercise and prolonged submaximal exercise at 70 % of maximal oxygen uptake ) lead to a significant increase in the number of glucocorticoid receptor without change of dissociation constant .
these result indicate that both a decrease and an increase of human motor activity result in significant change of specific glucocorticoid binding which be not influence by change of circulate hormone concentration in blood but by some other factor affect by physical activity .
competent transcription initiation by rna polymerase ii in cell-free extract from xeroderma pigmentosum group b and d in an optimize rna transcription assay .
the human autosomal recessive disease , xeroderma pigmentosum ( xp ) , can result from mutation in any one of seven gene , designate xpa through xpg .
of these , the xpb and xpd gene encode protein that be subunit of a general transcription factor , tfiih , involve in both nucleotide excision repair ( ner ) and initiation of mrna transcription by rna polymerase ii .
in human , mutation of the xpb or xpd gene impair ner , result in hyper-sensitivity to sunlight and greatly increase skin tumor formation .
however , no transcription deficiency have be demonstrate in either xp-b or xp-d .
we have employ an optimize cell-free rna transcription assay to analyze transcription activity of xp-b and xp-d .
although the growth rate be normal , the xp-b and xp-d cell contain reduce amount of tfiih .
extract prepare from xp-b and xp-d lymphoblastoid cell exhibit similar transcription activity from the adenovirus major late promoter when compare to that in extract from normal cell .
thus , we conclude that the xp-b and xp-d lymphoblastoid cell do not have impaired rna transcription activity .
we consider the possible consequence of the reduce cellular content of tfiih for the clinical symptom in xp-b or xp-d patient , and discuss a ' conditional phenotype ' that may involve an impairment of cellular function only under certain growth condition .
mapping of the interaction site of the defective transcription factor in the class ii major histocompatibility complex mutant cell line clone-13 to the divergent x2-box .
we have previously describe a mutant b lymphoblastoid cell line , clone-13 , that express hla-dq in the absence of hla -dr and -dp .
several criterion indicate that the defect in this cell line influence the activity of an isotype-specific transcription factor .
indeed , transient transfection of hla-dra and dqb reporter construct indicate that the affect factor operate via cis-elements located between -141 base pair and the transcription initiation site .
a series of hybrid dra/dqb reporter construct be generate to further map the relevant cis-elements in this system .
insertion of oligonucleotides span the dqb x-box ( but not the dqb-w region or the dqb y-box ) upstream of -141 in a dra reporter plasmid rescue expression to nearly wild-type level .
substitution promoter be then generate where the entire x-box , or only the x1- or x2- box of hla-dra be replace with the analogous region of hla-dqb .
the dqb x2-box be able to restore expression to the silent dra reporter construct .
moreover , replacement of the dqb x2-box with the dra x2-box markedly diminish the activity of the dqb promoter in the mutant cell .
none of the hybrid reporter construct be defective when transfected into the wild-type , hla-dr/-dq positive parental cell line , jijoye .
these study suggest that the divergent x2-box of the class ii major histocompatibility complex promoter play an important role in influence differential expression of the human class ii isotypes .
interferon-gamma-induced factor bind to the interleukin-4 -responsive element of cd23b promoter in human tonsillar mononuclear cell : role in transient up-regulation of the interleukin-4 -induced cd23b mrna .
stimulation of human tonsillar mononuclear cell with interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) and interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) rapidly induce the activation of distinct nuclear factor with different mobility , both of which bind the il-4 response element ( il-4re ) of cd23b promoter a examine by electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) .
co-treatment of il-4 and ifn-gamma induce , in addition to the two distinct complex , a new complex with an intermediate mobility .
the il-4 -induced complex react with anti- stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) 6 , result in a supershift whereas the formation of the ifn-gamma -induced complex be inhibit by anti- stat 1 .
the intermediate complex appear to react with both anti- stat 6 and anti- stat 1 .
although ifn-gamma alone do not induce cd23 mrna transcription , northern blot analysis reveal a transient up-regulation of the il-4 -induced cd23 mrna by ifn-gamma within 2 h of ifn-gamma treatment in these tonsillar cell .
the result suggest that the il-4re of the il-4 -inducible gene can accommodate both il-4- and ifn-gamma- activated factor , such a stat 6 and stat 1 , either in homodimeric or heterodimeric form and the binding of these different protein to the respective promoter may play a potential regulatory role in the il-4 - inducible gene expression .
isolation and characterization of murine fra-1 : induction mediate by cd40 and surface ig be protein kinase c dependent .
the murine fra-1 gene , encode fos-related ag 1 , be isolate from a splenic cdna library and sequence .
murine fra-1 be highly homologous to rat and human fra-1 .
oligonucleotide primer base on the murine sequence be use to construct a quantitative reverse transcription-pcr assay for gene expression .
b lymphocyte stimulation via both cd40 and surface ig ( sig ) receptor substantially induce fra-1 expression , and for both receptor , induction be protein kinase c ( pkc ) dependent .
this contrast with induction of c-fos by both cd40 and sig , which be pkc independent and indicate that cd40 be capable of signal through pkc or a closely related kinase .
induction of fra-1 follow engagement of cd40 do not require protein synthesis , suggest that the pkc -dependent linkage between cd40 and fra-1 be direct .
cd40 -mediated fra-1 induction do require tyrosine kinase activity .
these result demonstrate that cd40 , like sig , may employ pkc in produce select outcome , that individual b cell receptor may signal downstream event via both pkc-dependent and pkc-independent pathway , and that multiple signal transduction pathway may be use to activate the expression of closely related gene .
c-rel be a target of pentoxifylline -mediated inhibition of t lymphocyte activation .
the possible clinical use of the methyl xanthine derivative , pentoxifylline ( pf ) , for the treatment of t cell-dependent disease be be note with increase interest .
in this paper , we study the molecular consequence of pf treatment during lymphocyte activation .
we find that in t cell , anti-cd3-induced c-rel expression be block by pf , whereas the induction of other nf-kappab family member be not significantly affect .
however , induction of nf-at , which have the same signaling requirement a c-rel induction , be not inhibit by pf .
among gene that respond to these transcription factor , il-2 mrna induction be suppress by pf , whereas il-2r ( alpha ) chain mrna induction be not affect .
these observation implicate c-rel a an il-2 promoter factor , for which experimental support be obtain from transient transfection experiment .
in contrast with the observation in t cell , c-rel induction be not block by pf in b cell .
the great selectivity of pf , compare with fk506 , at both the molecular and cellular level may prove advantageous in manipulate t cell response in vivo .
c/ebp activate the human corticotropin-releasing hormone gene promoter .
the purpose of these study be to identify whether transcription factor , associate with cytokine signalling , affect promoter activity of the corticotropin releasing hormone ( crh ) gene .
fragment of a 3.6 kb sequence of the human crh gene promoter be amplify by pcr and ligate upstream of a cat reporter .
these construct be transfected into a variety of cell line , either alone or together , with transcription factor expression vector .
basal activity of a 3070 bp crh promoter fragment be only see in neuronal and lymphoblastoid cell line .
promoter activity be increase by the transcription factor c/ebpbeta ( nf-il6 ) and more strongly , by c/ebpdelta ( nf-il6beta ) .
increase crh promoter activity follow phorbol ester treatment be inhibit by a dominant negative nf-il6 mutant , show that the effect of phorbol ester be principally mediate by c/ebp .
moreover , the inverse change in the expression of crh in the hypothalamus and spleen of arthritic rat be parallel by similar inverse change in nf-il6beta expression in these organ .
these data show that some transcription factor associate with cytokine signalling can also activate the crh promoter .
polymorphic nucleotide within the human il-4 promoter that mediate overexpression of the gene .
atopy , which predispose individual to develop asthma , severe systemic anaphylaxis , and atopic dermatitis , be usually associate with dramatically elevated total serum ige level and be think to be control by a major susceptibility gene and multiple minor susceptibility gene .
a recent sib-pair analysis reveal a tight linkage between marker on 5q31.1 and a major susceptibility gene control total serum ige level .
due to it location within this cluster and it biologic role in ig class switching and th2 cell differentiation , the il-4 gene have emerge a one major candidate for the atopy gene .
in one model , polymorphism within il-4 regulatory element might result in overexpression of the gene , amplify th2 cell differentiation and class switching to ige .
in support of this model , we report that the human il-4 promoter exist in multiple allelic form that exhibit distinct transcriptional activity in il-4 -positive t cell .
a particular allele have an unusually high transcriptional activity .
a nucleotide substitution within a recently describe oap40 element located just upstream of an nf-at site ( p sequence ) appear to be largely responsible for the increase promotor strength of this particular allelic form of the il-4 promoter .
in emsas , this substitution result in a markedly enhance affinity for sequence-specific complex exhibit an ap-1 specificity .
the identification of allelic nucleotide , which result in overexpression of the il-4 gene , provide specific target for a comprehensive screening of atopic and nonatopic individual and may provide a clue for genetic predisposition for atopy .
the ah receptor recognize dna binding site for the b cell transcription factor , bsap : a possible mechanism for dioxin-mediated alteration of cd19 gene expression in human b lymphocyte .
2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) inhibit murine and human b lymphocyte immunoglobulin production through an unknown mechanism .
this study investigate the effect of tcdd on expression of the cd19 gene in a human b lymphocyte cell line .
northern blot analysis show that tcdd treatment decrease steady state level of cd19 mrna by 67 % in the im-9 cell line .
use a gel mobility shift assay , we identify a dna-binding complex in im-9 nuclear extract that by several criterion appear to be the ah receptor .
in addition , the ah receptor complex recognize a dna binding site for b cell lineage-specific activator protein ( bsap ) in the promoter region of the human cd19 gene which be similar to the consensus ah receptor dna binding site .
these result suggest that the ahr could interfere with bsap -stimulated cd19 gene transcription by competition for a common dna binding site .
alternate immune system target for tcdd : lymphocyte stem cell and extrathymic t-cell development .
we here summarize evidence that thymic atrophy induce by 2,3,7,8-tetrachlorodibenzo-p-dioxin ( tcdd ) can be mediate , at least in part , by damage to extrathymic t-cell precursor in bone marrow and fetal liver .
this atrophy induction do not involve apoptotic mechanism in thymocytes affect by the bcl-2 proto-oncogene .
tcdd mediate atrophy induction through it specific receptor ( the ahr ) and not through effect on the estrogen receptor .
both tcdd and estradiol induce extrathymic t-cell differentiation in the liver .
these extrathymic t-cell population include cell express elevated level of v beta t-cell receptor that be normally delete in thymic development .
inhibitory effect of e3330 , a novel quinone derivative able to suppress tumor necrosis factor-alpha generation , on activation of nuclear factor-kappa b .
(2e)-3-[5-(2,3-dimethoxy-6-methyl-1,4-benzoquinoyl)]-2-nonyl-2-_propenoic acid ( e3330 ) , be a novel agent with hepatoprotective activity .
we report the effect of e3330 on transcriptional activation of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -alpha gene and on nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b activation .
nuclear run-on experiment show that e3330 decrease transcriptional activation of tnf-alpha gene induce by lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) stimulation in human peripheral monocyte .
to investigate the inhibitory mechanism , we construct a secreted-type placental alkaline phosphatase ( plap ) reporter gene whose transcription be control by a 1.4-kb human tnf-alpha promoter .
a stable transformant of the plap reporter gene derive from human monocytic cell line show very little activity on the promoter before stimulation , whereas lp stimulation lead to a dramatic increase in plap activity .
e3330 inhibit this induce promoter activity in a dose-dependent manner .
there be four putative nf-kappa b binding site ( kappa b-1 , kappa b-2 , kappa b-3 , kappa b-4 ) in human tnf-alpha promoter .
by use mutate promoter- plap plasmid , we establish that these nf-kappa b site be necessary for induction of tnf-alpha transcription on stimulation with lp .
a gel retardation experiment with synthetic double-stranded oligonucleotides show that activate nf-kappa b consist of p50/p65 heterodimer bind to all four putative nf-kappa b dna probe , suggest that all four putative nf-kappa b recognition site play an important role in inducible tnf-alpha expression .
e3330 decrease activate nf-kappa b in nucleus , suggest that e3330 inhibit nf-kappa b activation and/or translocation of the nucleus .
western blotting analysis with anti-i kappa b-alpha antibody indicate that e3330 inhibit degradation of i kappa b-alpha , which be an inhibitory protein of nf-kappa b , in lp -stimulated monocyte .
e3330 may suppress the production of active oxygen specie serve a common messenger to activate nf-kappa b .
human t lymphotropic virus-i infection of human t lymphocyte induce expression of the beta-galactoside-binding lectin , galectin-3 .
animal lectin play important role in a variety of biological process via their recognition of glycoconjugates .
galectin-3 be a beta-galactoside-binding lectin previously designate a epsilon bp ( ige-binding protein ) , cbp35 , mac-2 , l-29 , and l-34 , and it expression have be associate with various physiological and pathological process , include cell growth , tumor transformation , and metastasis .
galectin-3 be widely distribute in various tissue and cell type and be express in many leukocyte , with the notable exception of b and t lymphocyte .
we now report that galectin-3 be abundantly express in a number of human t lymphotropic virus ( htlv ) -i -infected human t cell line , include f6t , hut 102 , k3t , mt-2 , and slb-i , but be not express in non- htlv-i -infected t cell line such a jurkat , cem , and molt-4 .
in addition , the galectin-3 level be markedly increase in human thymocytes after infection with htlv-i a compare with uninfected thymocytes .
the up-regulation of galectin-3 expression appear to correlate well with htlv-i gene expression , a undetectable or very low level of galectin-3 be find in the s1t and atl-1k cell line , which be nonproductively infect with htlv-i .
in co-transfection experiment , the galectin-3 promoter be significantly up-regulated by expression vector encode the 40-kd tax protein , a potent transactivator in htlv-i .
analysis of various tax mutant suggest that galectin-3 promoter induction be dependent on activation of the cyclic-amp -responsive element binding protein/activation transcription factor family of transcription factor and , to a less extent , nuclear factor-kappa b/rel induction .
transfection of human promonocytic u-937 cell with an htlv-i tax expression vector induce galectin-3 expression in this cell line .
functionally , galectin-3 be show to activate interleukin-2 production in jurkat t cell .
together , these finding raise the possibility that htlv-i tax production induce the transcription and subsequent synthesis and secretion of galectin-3 , which in turn may far activate these t cell and contribute to the altered property of cell growth find in adult t cell leukemia induce by htlv-i .
costimulation of human cd4+ t cell with lfa-3 and b7 induce distinct effect on ap-1 and nf-kappa b transcription factor .
we have earlier show that stimulation of human cd4+ t cell with sea present on chinese hamster ovary ( cho ) -dr transfectants coexpressing either b7 or lfa-3 result in distinct cytokine profile .
we now demonstrate that b7 , but not lfa-3 , strongly costimulated il-2 transcription and mrna expression in cd4+ t cell .
maximal increase in il-2 transcription be record with cho-dr/ b7 / lfa-3 , suggest a cooperative effect of b7 and lfa-3 at the transcriptional level .
gel-shift analysis demonstrate that stimulation of cd4+ t cell with cho-dr and staphylococcal enterotoxin a be sufficient to induce significant amount of nf-kappa b binding protein , whereas induction of ap-1 binding protein require costimulation .
lfa-3 induce moderate level of ap-1 , but do not influence the level of nf-kappa b , while b7 costimulation strongly induce both ap-1 and substantially enhance nf-kappa b binding protein .
the cho-dr/ b7 / lfa-3 triple transfectant induce a further increase in ap-1 and nf-kappa b binding protein compare with the double transfectants .
the level of oct-1 binding protein remain similar in all sample .
super-shift analysis reveal that the nf-kappa b complex of costimulated cd4+ t cell contain large amount of p50 , substantial amount of p65 , and marginal level of c-rel protein .
the ap-1 binding protein contain c-jun , jun-d , and fra-1 , but marginal amount of jun-b and c-fos .
our result indicate distinct effect of b7 and lfa-3 costimulation on the activity of ap-1 and nf-kappa b .
these may partly account for the differential effect of b7 and lfa-3 costimulation on il-2 expression .
bcl-6 , a poz/zinc-finger protein , be a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor .
approximately 40 % of diffuse large cell lymphoma be associate with chromosomal translocation that deregulate the expression of the bcl6 gene by juxtapose heterologous promoter to the bcl-6 coding domain .
the bcl6 gene encode a 95-kda protein contain six c-terminal zinc-finger motif and an n-terminal poz domain , suggest that it may function a a transcription factor .
by use a dna sequence select for it ability to bind recombinant bcl-6 in vitro , we show here that bcl-6 be present in dna-binding complex in nuclear extract from various b-cell line .
in transient transfectin experiment , bcl6 can repress transcription from promoter link to it dna target sequence and this activity be dependent upon specific dna-binding and the presence of an intact n-terminal half of the protein .
we demonstrate that this part of the bcl6 molecule contain an autonomous transrepressor domain and that two noncontiguous region , include the poz motif , mediate maximum transrepressive activity .
these result indicate that the bcl-6 protein can function a a sequence-specific transcriptional repressor and have implication for the role of bcl6 in normal lymphoid development and lymphomagenesis .
heterogeneous expression of epstein-barr virus latent protein in endemic burkitt 's lymphoma .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -infected cell may sustain three distinct form of virus latency .
in lymphoblastoid cell line , six ebv-encoded nuclear antigen ( ebna 1 , 2 , 3a , 3b , 3c , -lp ) , three latent membrane protein ( lmp1 , 2a , 2b ) , and two nuclear rna ( ebers ) be express .
this form of latency , term latency iii , be also encounter in some posttransplant lymphoproliferative disorder .
in ebv-positive case of hodgkin 's disease , the ebers , ebna1 , and the lmps be express ( latency ii ) , whereas in burkitt 's lymphoma ( bl ) only the ebers and ebna1 have be detect ( latency i ) .
we have study the expression of ebv protein in 17 case of ebv-positive endemic bl by immunohistology .
expression of lmp1 be see in variable proportion of tumor cell in two case and ebna2 be detect in some tumor cell in three other case .
also , the bzlf1 trans-activator protein be express in a few tumor cell in 6 case , indicate entry into the lytic cycle .
a phenotypic drift from latency i to latency iii have be observe previously in some bl cell line .
our result suggest that a similar phenomenon may occur in bl in vivo and indicate that the operational definition of ebv latency be not easily apply to human tumor .
alcohol-induced regulation of nuclear regulatory factor-kappa beta in human monocyte .
acute ethanol exposure have the capacity to modulate immune function , particularly , to down regulate monocyte production of inflammatory cytokine .
however , the intracellular mechanism for these effect of ethanol be yet to be understand .
consider that nuclear regulatory factor-kappa beta ( nf-kappa b ) /rel be a common regulatory element of the promoter region of the inflammatory cytokine gene , herein , we test the hypothesis that acute ethanol affect nf-kappa b activation in human monocyte .
adherence-isolated monocyte show constitutive dna binding activity of nf-kappa b .
a clinically relevant dose ( 25 mm ) of acute ethanol treatment in vitro increase nf-kappa b binding activity in monocyte with a preferential induction of the inhibitory , p50 /p50 , nf-kappa b /rel homodimer , and result in no induction of the p65 /p50 heterodimer .
in contrast , lipopolysaccharide stimulation primarily induce the p65 /p50 heterodimer that have be show to result in gene activation .
thus , such unique activation of the inhibitory p50 /p50 homodimer by acute ethanol treatment may result in inhibition rather than activation of nf-kappa b -regulated inflammatory cytokine gene .
consequently , these result suggest that physiologically relevant concentration of ethanol may affect production of inflammatory cytokine , such a tumor necrosis factor-alpha , interleukin-1 beta , and interleukin-6 by disrupt nf-kappa b signaling in monocyte .
characterization of the cd48 gene demonstrate a positive element that be specific to epstein-barr virus -immortalized b-cell line and contain an essential nf-kappa b site .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infection of mature , rest b cell drive them to become lymphoblast express high level of cell surface molecule , such a cd48 , characteristically express on normal activate b cell .
here , we report on the identification of an enhancer element in the cd48 gene which reproducibly confer strong transcriptional activity only in ebv -positive b-lymphoblastoid cell line .
the element be not activate upon infection of established ebv -negative b-cell line , indicate that ebv fail to drive these cell to a fully lymphoblastoid phenotype .
an nf-kappa b binding site be an essential component of the element but alone be not sufficient to account for the activity or the specificity of the element .
we have detect a specific nuclear protein complex that bind to the element and show that nf-kappa b1 ( p50 ) be a part of this complex .
the ebv -encoded latent membrane protein 1 be capable of transactivating the isolate cd48 nf-kappa b site but not the intact element , suggest that the latent membrane protein 1 -driven activation of nf-kappa b/rel must interact with other regulatory pathway to control expression of cellular gene a ebv drive rest b cell into the cell cycle .
marked basophilia in acute promyelocytic leukaemia treat with all-trans retinoic acid : molecular analysis of the cell origin of the basophil .
we report a patient with acute promyelocytic leukaemia who develop marked basophilia during all-trans retinoic acid treatment .
we study genomic dna and rna extract from the patient 's peripheral leucocyte in order to determine the origin of the basophil .
the rar alpha rearranged band in the southern blot analysis and a chimaeric product of pml-rar alpha by polymerase chain reaction be strongly visible before atra treatment , but at the time of maximal basophilia both of them be markedly diminish .
these finding suggest that the basophil which appear during the atra treatment be reactive in nature rather than a leukaemic clone .
nuclear transcription factor that bind to element of the il-2 promoter .
induction requirement in primary human t cell .
prior study have identify several element that contribute to the activity of the il-2 promoter in the stimulate t cell line , jurkat .
the site and their corresponding nuclear bind factor include : nf-kappa b , ap-1 , ap-3 , oct-1 , and nf-at .
the latter " nuclear factor for activate t cell " likely contribute to the tissue specificity of il-2 gene expression .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , we have study these transcription factor in primary t cell from human blood to verify their presence in a physiologic setting and to identify the signal that stimulate factor activity .
all factor be induce in the nucleus of t cell upon activation with mitogen but not with exogenous il-2 growth factor .
however , the signaling requirement and sensitivity to protein synthesis inhibitor differ considerably .
only the activity for nf-at and ap-1 site require two signal for optimal induction , i.e. , pma plus either lectin or antibody to the cd3 or cd28 surface molecule .
other factor be induce by lectin , antibody , and/or pma alone .
after appropriate stimulation , both nf-at and ap-1 be peculiarly sensitive to the protein synthesis inhibitor anisomycin .
our data correlate the activity of nf-at and ap-1 in gel shift assay with the two signal requirement for il-2 gene expression .
the normal cell cycle activation program be exploit during the infection of quiescent b lymphocyte by epstein-barr virus .
b lymphocyte in the peripheral circulation be maintained in a non-proliferative state .
antigen recognition stimulate limited proliferation , whereas infection with epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) result in continual proliferation and the outgrowth of immortal cell line .
because it be not clear at which point in cell cycle the peripheral b lymphocyte be arrest , we characterize the expression of several cell cycle-associated gene in quiescent and stimulate cell .
we show that the expression of four cell gene , cdc-2 , cyclin e , cd23 , and cyclin d2 , be up-regulated approximately 100-fold a a result of ebv -mediated immortalization .
because these gene play a positive role in cell proliferation , we suggest that this regulatory switch contribute to control entry into the cell cycle .
transient stimulation of quiescent b lymphocyte with either a cocktail of anti-cd40 , anti-igm , and il4 , or ebv result in the rapid expression of the same four gene , suggest that , after infection , ebv exploit the normal program of b-lymphocyte cell cycle activation .
effect of adenovirus 2 on cellular gene activation in blood-derived monocyte and macrophage .
we have investigate the effect of adenovirus 2 ( ad2 ) infection on human monocyte and monocyte-derived macrophage with regard to expression of tnf-alpha and il-1 beta .
in monocyte , the virus be bind to the surface without be internalize .
on the other hand , ad2 be internalize by macrophage .
no virus replication and no transcription of the ad2 early gene be observe in either of the cell .
ad2 infection induce transient increase in the mrna level for tnf-alpha and il-1 beta in both monocyte and in macrophage , although the kinetics of the transcription be slightly different .
the production of both cytokine , measure by elisa test , be enhance in monocyte .
in macrophage , a slight enhancement of tnf-alpha production be see , whereas il-1 beta be not detect .
the data indicate that cellular gene might be activate by ad2 virus infection in nonpermissive cell where no viral gene product could be detect .
age-related decrease in il-2 production by human t cell be associate with impaired activation of nuclear transcriptional factor ap-1 and nf-at .
although transcriptional factor ap-1 and nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) be important for the normal induction of il-2 , it be unknown if the age-related decline in il-2 production by activate human t cell may be associate with aberrancy in transcriptional regulatory protein .
in the current study , il-2 production by t cell from elderly ( mean 78 year ) and young ( mean 37 year ) human be measure in culture stimulate with pha , pha plus pma , crosslinked anti-cd3 mab okt3 plus pma , or pma plus ionomycin .
substantial decrease of il-2 production be observe for cell culture from 7 of 12 elderly individual in response to the different stimulus , whereas the level of il-2 produce by stimulate t cell from other elderly individual be equivalent to those observe for stimulate t cell of young subject .
analysis of nuclear extract by electrophoretic dna mobility shift assay show that decrease il-2 production by stimulate t cell of elderly individual be closely associate with impairment in the activation of both ap-1 and nf-at .
by contrast , t cell from elderly subject with normal level of il-2 production exhibit normal activation of ap-1 and nf-at .
in addition , the result of competition experiment analyze the normal component of nf-at show that the age-related reduction in stimulus-dependent nf-at complex correspond to the slow migrate complex that be compose of c-fos/c-jun ap-1 .
the resting and stimulated level of nf kappa b be reduce in t cell from certain elderly individual ; however , alteration of nf kappa b do not correlate with change in il-2 expression .
thus , these result show that age-related impairment in the activation of ap-1 and nf-at be closely associate with decrease expression of il-2 and far suggest that aberrancy in the signaling pathway important for the induction of transcriptionally active c-fos/c-jun ap-1 may contribute to the impaired activation of nf-at .
the b cell-specific nuclear factor otf-2 positively regulate transcription of the human class ii transplantation gene , dra .
the promoter of the major histocompatibility class ii gene dra contain an octamer element ( atttgcat ) that be require for efficient dra expression in b cell .
several dna-binding protein be know to bind this sequence .
the best characterize be the b cell-specific otf-2 and the ubiquitous otf-1 .
this report directly demonstrate that otf-2 but not otf-1 regulate the dra gene .
in vitro transcription analysis use protein fraction enrich for the octamer-binding protein otf-2 demonstrate a positive functional role for otf-2 in dra gene transcription .
in contrast , otf-1 -enriched protein fraction do not affect dra gene transcription although it functionally enhance the transcription of another gene .
recombinant otf-2 protein produce by in vitro transcription /translation could also enhance dra gene transcription in vitro .
in vivo transient transfection study utilize an otf-2 expression vector result in similar finding : that otf-2 protein enhance dra gene transcription , and that this effect require an intact octamer element .
together these result constitute the first direct evidence of a positive role for the lymphoid-specific octamer-binding factor in dra gene transcription .
positive and negative regulation of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoter activity by aml1-related transcription factor , pebp2 .
the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) gene promoter contain a consensus sequence for the polyomavirus enhancer binding-protein 2 ( pebp2 ) transcription factor , which consist of alpha and beta subunit .
there be at least two gene , alpha a and alpha b , encode the alpha subunit .
alpha b be the mouse homologue of human aml1 gene detect at the breakpoints of t ( 8 ; 21 ) and t ( 3 ; 21 ) myeloid leukemia .
we examine alpha a1 ( an alpha a -gene product ) and alpha b1 and alpha b2 ( two alpha b -encoded isomer ) for their effect on the gm-csf promoter .
pebp2 alpha a1 , alpha b1 , and alpha b2 protein bind the pebp2 site within the mouse gm-csf promoter .
pebp2 alpha a1 and alpha b1 enhance the expression of the gm-csf promoter-driven reporter plasmid in unstimulated and 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate/phytohemagglutinin-stimulated human jurkat t cell .
in contrast , the promoter activity be suppress by alpha b2 .
coexpression of alpha b1 and alpha b2 show that the promoter activity could be determine by the alpha b1 /alpha b2 ratio .
jurkat cell extract contain pebp2 site-binding protein ( s ) that cross-reacted with antimouse alpha a1 antibody .
northern blot analysis indicate the expression of human pebp2 alpha a , alpha b ( aml1 ) , and beta gene in jurkat cell .
although further study be require to determine the precise role of pebp2 in the gm-csf promoter activity , the present finding suggest the importance of the relative ratio of different pebp2 isoforms in regulate the level of the promoter activity .
attenuation of gamma interferon -induced tyrosine phosphorylation in mononuclear phagocyte infect with leishmania donovani : selective inhibition of signaling through janus kinase and stat1 .
the induction of gene transcription in response to gamma interferon be impaired in mononuclear phagocyte infect with leishmania donovani , and the mechanism involve be not fully understand .
the change in gene expression bring about by gamma interferon be think to involve transient increase in the activity of cellular protein tyrosine kinase , include the janus kinase jak1 and jak2 , lead to tyrosine phosphorylation of the transcription factor stat1 .
to investigate the mechanism account for the impaired response to gamma interferon , a model system for examine overall change in protein tyrosine phosphorylation , activation of jak1 and jak2 and phosphorylation of stat1 be develop in phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -differentiated u-937 cell .
analysis of whole-cell lysates by antiphosphotyrosine immunoblotting show that incubation with gamma interferon bring about specific increase in phosphotyrosine labeling of several protein .
increase labeling of these protein occur to similar extent in control cell and in cell that have be infect with l. donovani for 16 h .
jak1 , jak2 , and stat1 be immunoprecipitated from control and interferon-treated cell , and tyrosine phosphorylation of these protein , detect by antiphosphotyrosine immunoblotting be use to measure their activation .
tyrosine phosphorylation of jak1 , jak2 , and stat1 increase markedly , in a dose-dependent manner , in u-937 cell incubate with gamma interferon .
in contrast , in cell infect with l. donovani , tyrosine phosphorylation of jak1 , jak2 , and stat1 be markedly impaired .
this effect be dependent upon the duration of exposure to l. donovani and be maximal and complete at 16 h .
result similar to those observe with u-937 cell be also obtain with human peripheral blood monocyte .
these finding indicate that infection of human mononuclear phagocyte with l. donovani lead to impaired gamma interferon -mediated tyrosine phosphorylation and selective effect on the jak- stat1 pathway .
unresponsiveness to gamma interferon for activation of this pathway may explain impaired transcriptional response in leishmania-infected cell .
heterodimerization and transcriptional activation in vitro by nf-kappa b protein .
the nf-kappa b family of transcription protein represent multiple dna binding , rel related polypeptide that contribute to regulation of gene involve in immune responsiveness and inflammation , as well a activation of the hiv long terminal repeat .
in this study multiple nf-kappa b related polypeptide range from 85 to 45 kda be examine for their capacity to interact with the prdii regulatory element of interferon beta and be show to possess distinct intrinsic dna binding affinity for this nf-kappa b site and form multiple dna binding homo- and hetero dimer complex in co-renaturation experiment .
furthermore , use dna template contain two copy of the prdii domain link to the rabbit beta globin gene , the purify polypeptide specifically stimulate nf-kappa b dependent transcription in an in vitro reconstitution assay a heterodimers but not a p50 homodimers .
these experiment emphasize the role of nf-kappa b dimerization a a distinct level of transcriptional control that may permit functional diversification of a limited number of regulatory protein .
activation of the nf-kappab transcription factor in a t-lymphocytic cell line by hypochlorous acid .
reactive oxygen specie ( ro ) such a hydrogen peroxide serve a second messenger in the induction of the transcription factor nf-kappab , and hence in the activation and replication of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) in human cell .
during inflammatory reaction , many oxidative specie be produce , one of which be hypochlorous acid ( hocl ) , which be responsible for the microbicidal effect of activate human polymorphonuclear leukocyte .
treatment of a t-lymphocytic cell line with micromolar concentration of hocl promote the appearance of transcription factor nf-kappab ( the heterodimer p50/p65 ) in the nucleus of the cell , even in the absence of de novo protein synthesis .
western blot analysis of the nf-kappab inhibitory subunit ( ikappab ) demonstrate that both ikappab -alpha proteolysis and p105 processing be induce by the treatment .
nf-kappab activation be very effective when cell be subject to hyperthermia before be treat with hocl .
various antioxidant , such a pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate , p-bromophenacyl-bromide and nordihydroguaiaretic acid could strongly reduce nf-kappab translocation , demonstrate the importance of oxidative specie in the transduction mechanism .
moreover , ach-2 cell treat with hocl or h2o2 release tumour necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) in the supernatant .
the importance of tnf-alpha release in nf-kappab induction by hocl or h2o2 be demonstrate by the fact that : ( 1 ) the nuclear appearance of nf-kappab be promote in untreated cell ; and ( 2 ) synergism between tnf-alpha and hocl be detect .
collectively , these result suggest that hocl should be consider a an oxidative specie capable of induce nf-kappab in a t-lymphocytic cell line through a transduction mechanism involve ro , and have a long-distance effect through subsequent tnf-alpha release .
the pax-5 gene be alternatively splice during b-cell development .
the transcription factor pax-5 be express during the early stage of b-cell differentiation and influence the expression of several b-cell-specific gene .
in addition to the exist isoform ( pax-5 , which we have name pax-5a ) , we have isolate three new isoforms , pax-5b , pax-5d , and pax-5e , from murine spleen and b-lymphoid cell line use library screening and polymerase chain reaction amplification .
isoforms pax-5b and pax-5e have splice out their second exon , result in protein with only a partial dna-binding domain .
isoforms pax-5d and pax-5e have delete the 3'-region , which encode the transactivating domain , and replace it with a novel sequence .
the existence of alternative pax-5 transcript be confirm use rnase protection assay .
furthermore , pax-5a and pax-5b protein be detect use western blot analysis .
pax-5a be detectable in pro- , pre- , and mature b-cell line , but not in two plasmacytoma ; pax-5b be show to be present at low level in mature b-cell line and , unexpectedly , in one plasma cell line , but not in pro-b-cell or t-cell line .
mobility shift assay show that in vitro translate pax-5a and pax-5d , but not pax-5b or pax-5e , could interact with a b-cell-specific activator protein-binding site on the blk promoter .
use this assay , we also show that pax-5d be present in nuclear extract of some ( but not all ) b-lymphoid line and interact with the b-cell-specific activator protein-binding site .
the pattern of differential expression of alternatively splice pax-5 isoforms suggest that they may be important regulator of transcription during b-cell maturation .
regulation of nf-kappa b , ap-1 , nfat , and stat1 nuclear import in t lymphocyte by noninvasive delivery of peptide carry the nuclear localization sequence of nf-kappa b p50 .
activation of t lymphocyte by ag or cytokine result in translocation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b , ap-1 , nfat , and stat from the cytoplasm into the nucleus .
the first step in the nuclear import process be recognition of a nuclear localization sequence ( nls ) within the karyophilic protein by a cytoplasmic receptor such a the importin ( karyopherin ) -alpha subunit .
the nlss of nf-kappa b , ap-1 , and nfat differ and the nls of stat1 have not yet be identify .
herein we demonstrate that the inducible nuclear import of nf-kappa b , ap-1 , nfat , and stat1 in jurkat t lymphocyte be significantly inhibit by a cell-permeable peptide carry the nls of the nf-kappa b p50 subunit .
nls peptide-mediated disruption of the nuclear import of these transcription factor result in inhibition of i kappa b alpha and il-2 gene expression , process dependent on nf-kappa b or the combination of nf-kappa b , ap-1 , and nfat .
far , we show that inhibitory nls peptide interact in vitro with a cytoplasmic nls receptor complex comprise of the rch1/importin ( karyopherin ) -beta heterodimer express in jurkat t cell .
take together , these data indicate that the inducible nuclear import of nf-kappa b , ap-1 , nfat , and stat1 in jurkat t cell can be regulate by nls peptide deliver noninvasively to the cytoplasm of jurkat t cell to target member of the importin ( karyopherin ) -alpha beta nls receptor complex .
sequence-specific dna binding of the b-cell-specific coactivator oca-b .
b-cell-specific transcription of immunoglobulin gene be mediate by the interaction of a pou domain contain transcription factor oct-1 or oct-2 , with the b-cell-specific coactivator oca-b ( bob-1 , obf-1 ) and a prototype octamer element .
we find that oca-b bind dna directly in the major groove between the two subdomains of the pou domain , require both an a at the fifth position of the octamer element and contact with the pou domain .
an amino-terminal fragment of oca-b bind the octamer site in the absence of a pou domain with the same sequence specificity .
coactivator oca-b may undergo a pou-dependent conformational change that expose it amino terminus , allow it to recognize specific dna sequence in the major groove within the bind site for oct-1 or oct-2 .
the recognition of both the pou domain and the octamer sequence by oca-b provide a mechanism for differential regulation of octamer site contain gene by the ubiquitous factor oct-1 .
functional block for 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 -mediated gene regulation in human b lymphocyte .
element necessary for the steroid hormone 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 ) to induce a biological response include the presence of specific intracellular receptor ( vitamin d3 receptor ( vdr ) ) and modulation of gene expression via hormone-activated receptor bind to regulatory region of target gene .
these parameter be examine in normal and epstein-barr virus-immortalized human b cell and compare with 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 -responsive cell of the t and monocytic lineage .
although rest tonsillar b cell do not express vdr mrna , activation of these cell with interleukin-4 induce vdr in the absence of exogenously supplement 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 .
a indicator of hormone-mediated gene regulation we analyze modulation of cd23 , a common b cell/monocyte surface antigen , and 24-hydroxylase .
1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 inhibit cd23 expression in u937 cell , yet fail to modulate cd23 expression in b cell .
furthermore , 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 induce 24-hydroxylase mrna expression and metabolic activity in both u937 cell and lectin-activated t cell , yet fail to induce 24-hydroxylase mrna or it metabolic activity in b cell .
these finding suggest that although human b lymphocyte can express vdr mrna and protein , they exhibit a functional block for vitamin d -dependent gene regulation .
regulation of gene expression at early stage of b-cell and t-cell differentiation .
the expression of distinct set of gene at different stage of b-lymphocyte and t-lymphocyte differentiation be control at the level of transcription .
a number of recent study have describe interaction between transcription factor in lymphocyte that provide new insight into mechanism regulate gene expression .
these mechanism include the assembly of high order nucleoprotein complex and other protein-protein interaction that enhance the functional specificity of transcriptional regulator in lymphocyte .
human t cell activation through the activation-inducer molecule/cd69 enhance the activity of transcription factor ap-1 .
the induction of the ap-1 transcription factor have be ascribe to the early event lead to t cell differentiation and activation .
we have study the regulation of ap-1 activity in human peripheral blood t lymphocyte stimulate through the activation inducer molecule ( aim ) / cd69 activation pathway .
phorbol ester be require to induce aim/cd69 cell-surface expression as well a for trigger the proliferation of t cell in conjunction with anti-aim mab .
mobility shift assay show that addition of anti-aim mab to pma -treated t lymphocyte markedly enhance the binding activity of ap-1 to it cognate sequence , the phorbol ester response element .
in contrast , anti-aim mab do not induce any change in the binding activity of nf-kappa b , a transcription factor whose activity be also regulate by protein kinase c .
the increase in ap-1 -binding activity be accompany by the marked stimulation of the transcription of c-fos but not that of c-jun .
blockade of the dna-binding complex with an anti-fos mab demonstrate a direct participation of c-fos in the ap-1 complex induce by anti-aim mab .
most of the ap-1 activity could be eliminate when the anti-aim mab be add to the culture medium in the presence of cycloheximide , suggest that de novo protein synthesis be crucial for the induction of ap-1 -binding activity .
these data provide the evidence that activation of human peripheral blood t cell through the aim activation pathway regulate the activity of ap-1 .
therefore , this pathway appear a a crucial step in the initiation of early t cell activation event .
an ap1 binding site upstream of the kappa immunoglobulin intron enhancer bind inducible factor and contribute to expression .
expression of the kappa immunoglobulin light chain gene require developmental- and tissue-specific regulation by trans-acting factor which interact with two distinct enhancer element .
a new protein-dna interaction have be identify upstream of the intron enhancer , within the matrix-associated region of the j-c intron .
the binding activity be greatly inducible in pre-b cell by bacterial lipopolysaccharide and interleukin-1 but specific complex be find at all stage of b cell development test .
the footprinted bind site be homologous to the consensus ap1 motif .
the protein component of this complex be specifically compete by an ap1 consensus motif and be show by supershift to include c-jun and c-fos , suggest that this bind site be an ap1 motif and that the jun and fo family of transcription factor play a role in the regulation of the kappa light chain gene .
mutation of the ap1 motif in the context of the intron enhancer be show to decrease enhancer-mediated activation of the promoter in both pre-b cell induce with lp and constitutive expression in mature b cell .
association between expression of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and integration of human t-cell-leukemia virus type 1 in adult t-cell leukemia cell .
it be know that the expression level of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) in adult t cell leukemia ( atl ) cell be high , whereas those in t-lymphoid cell be not .
in order to investigate the factor that influence the induction of icam-1 molecule , northern blot analysis to measure the expression level of icam-1 mrna and southern blot hybridization to analyze the integration of human t-cell-leukemia virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) provirus be do .
the level of icam-1 mrna expression of atl cell be generally high than those of t-lymphoid cell .
however , ilt-mat cell and atl16t(-) cell , although they be atl cell , show rather low surface icam-1 expression and icam-1 mrna expression .
southern blot hybridization show that only two and four band be find in ilt-mat and atl16t(-) cell , respectively , whereas > 10 band be detect in other atl cell .
these result suggest that monoclonal integration of htlv-1 provirus to the genome of t cell , especially the number of integration site , be one of the factor for induction of icam-1 molecule .
interleukin 12 induce tyrosine phosphorylation and activation of stat4 in human lymphocyte .
interleukin 12 ( il-12 ) be an important immunoregulatory cytokine whose receptor be a member of the hematopoietin receptor superfamily .
we have recently demonstrate that stimulation of human t and natural killer cell with il-12 induce tyrosine phosphorylation of the janus family tyrosine kinase jak2 and tyk2 , implicate these kinase in the immediate biochemical response to il-12 .
recently , transcription factor know a stats ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) have be show to be tyrosine phosphorylated and activate in response to a number of cytokine that bind hematopoietin receptor and activate jak kinase .
in this report we demonstrate that il-12 induce tyrosine phosphorylation of a recently identify stat family member , stat4 , and show that stat4 expression be regulate by t-cell activation .
furthermore , we show that il-12 stimulate formation of a dna-binding complex that recognize a dna sequence previously show to bind stat protein and that this complex contain stat4 .
these data , and the recent demonstration of jak phosphorylation by il-12 , identify a rapid signal-transduction pathway likely to mediate il-12 -induced gene expression .
role for the epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 in viral promoter switch during initial stage of infection .
during latent epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infection of human b lymphocyte , six viral nuclear antigen ( ebnas ) be express from long primary transcript by mean of alternative splicing and alternative polyadenylylation site .
these transcript initiate from one of two promoter , cp or wp , that function in a mutually exclusive fashion .
wp be exclusively utilize during the initial stage of infection of primary b lymphocyte , follow by a switch to cp usage .
these study have be extend to show that ( i ) a mutant ebv strain lack the gene encode ebna 2 fail to switch from wp to cp usage in primary b lymphocyte , although the virus contain a functional cp ; ( ii ) a region from -429 to -245 base pair upstream of cp be essential for cp activity in b lymphocyte , but only in the context of upstream and downstream sequence ; ( iii ) this region contain an ebna 2 -dependent enhancer ; and ( iv ) dnase i protection employ nuclear extract from b and t lymphocyte reveal a b-cell-specific footprint in the region of the ebna 2 -dependent enhancer .
these result support a model for viral promoter switching during the initial stage of infection in which wp activity lead to the expression of ebna 2 , follow by activation of cp through the ebna 2 -dependent enhancer .
inhibition of hiv-1 replication by combination of a novel inhibitor of tnf-alpha with azt .
the small molecule s9a be derive from an established tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) inhibitor ( canventol ) by replacement of the isopropylidine group with a phenyl ring .
s9a at 10 to 100 nm inhibit hiv production as potently a 3'-azido-3'-deoxythymidine ( azt ) , an inhibitor of viral reverse transcriptase .
furthermore , s9a and azt in combination , at noncytoxic concentration strongly inhibit hiv-1 replication that be more than additive and substantially prolong the appearance of virus both in acutely infected cd4+ lymphocyte ( supt ) in culture and in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmcs ) infect with a primary hiv-1 isolate .
s9a inhibit tnf-alpha promoter-driven reporter gene activity .
it be propose that the mechanism of antiviral action of s9a be on the host cell , by block tnf-alpha transcription via a tat -induced tar-independent loop , which decrease downstream nf-kappab activation of hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
s9a be superior to the first generation compound canventol , which be superior to the natural compound sarcophytol a , demonstrate that further structure-based enhancement of potency of these compound be feasible .
this study suggest a therapeutic approach against aid by application of two drug , one against a cellular and the other a viral target , which may provide an approach to the problem of frequent emergence of resistant variant to combination of drug that target only hiv gene .
structure function analysis of vitamin d analog with c-ring modification .
analog of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1 alpha,25-(oh) 2d3 ) with substitution on c-11 be synthesize .
small apolar substitution ( 11 alpha-methyl , 11 alpha-fluoromethyl ) do not markedly decrease the affinity for the vitamin d receptor , but large ( 11 alpha-chloromethyl or 11 alpha- or 11 beta-phenyl ) or more polar substitution ( 11 alpha-hydroxymethyl , 11 alpha-(2-hydroxyethyl ] decrease the affinity to less than 5 % of that of 1 alpha,25-oh)2d3 .
their affinity for the vitamin d -binding protein , however , increase up to 4-fold .
the biological activity of 11 alpha-methyl-1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 closely resemble that of the natural hormone on normal and leukemic cell proliferation and bone resorption , whereas it in vivo effect on calcium metabolism of the rachitic chick be about 50 % of that of 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 .
the 11 beta-methyl analog have a great than 10-fold low activity .
the differentiating effect of the other c-11 analog on human promyeloid leukemia cell ( hl-60 ) agree well with their bone-resorbing activity and receptor affinity , but they demonstrate low calcemic effect in vivo .
large or polar substitution on c-11 of 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 thus impair the binding of the vitamin d receptor but increase the affinity to vitamin d-binding protein .
the effect of many c-11-substituted 1 alpha,25-(oh)2d3 analog on hl-60 cell differentiation exceed their activity on calcium metabolism .
mineralocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor in mononuclear leukocyte in patient with pregnancy-induced hypertension .
to examine the role of mineralocorticoid in the pathophysiology of pregnancy-induced hypertension ( pih ) , we study plasma aldosterone and 18-hydroxycorticosterone level in 25 woman with pih and 25 normal pregnant woman , a control .
furthermore , we evaluate the mineralocorticoid receptor ( mr ) status in mononuclear leukocyte in the 2 group .
mr count be significantly ( p less than 0.0005 ) decrease in the pih group ( 148 +/- 9 bind sites/cell ) compare with the control group ( 300 +/- 17 bind sites/cell ; mean +/- sem ) .
plasma aldosterone in woman with pih be 281 +/- 61 pmol/l ; in normal pregnant woman it be 697 +/- 172 pmol/l ( p less than 0.025 ) .
plasma 18-hydroxycorticosterone be also significantly ( p less than 0.025 ) low ( pih , 1071 +/- 149 pmol/l ; control , 1907 +/- 318 pmol/l ) .
these value be determine at the onset of clinical symptom of pih .
these result can not be explain by receptor down-regulation due to high level of mineralocorticoid in pih ; a hitherto unknown mineralocorticoid may , thus , be responsible for the hypertension and altered mr status .
transcription-independent turnover of i kappa b alpha during monocyte adherence : implication for a translational component regulate i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna level .
we identify i kappa b alpha /mad-3 a an immediate-early gene in human monocyte that be express in response to a variety of signal , include adhesion , lipopolysaccharide , and phorbol myristate acetate .
within 5 min of monocyte adhesion , the level of the i kappa b alpha protein be markedly diminish but be rapidly replace in a cycloheximide-sensitive manner within 20 min .
accompany the rapid turnover of the i kappa b alpha protein be simultaneous translocation of nf-kappa b-related transcription factor to nucleus of adhered monocyte .
the demonstration that nf-kappa b can regulate i kappa b alpha /mad-3 gene transcription in other cell type suggest that the rapid increase in steady-state i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna level we observe within 30 min of monocyte adherence would result from nf-kappa b -dependent transcriptional stimulation of the i kappa b alpha /mad-3 gene .
nuclear run-on analysis indicate that , instead , while several immediate-early cytokine gene , such a the interleukin 1 beta ( il-1 beta ) gene , be transcriptionally activate during monocyte adhesion , the rate of i kappa b alpha /mad-3 gene transcription remain constant .
the adherence-dependent increase in i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna level be also not a consequence of mrna stabilization event .
interestingly , while increase in both il-1 beta and i kappa b alpha/mad-3 mrna level be detect in nucleus of adherent monocyte , cytoplasmic level of il-1 beta mrna increase during adherence whereas those of i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna do not .
take together , our data suggest that two interactive mechanism regulate monocytic i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna level .
we propose that adherent monocyte regulate nuclear processing ( or decay ) of i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna , thereby increase mrna level without stimulate i kappa b alpha /mad-3 gene transcription .
moreover , since inhibition of protein synthesis lead to accumulation of i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna without stimulate i kappa b alpha /mad-3 gene transcription , we suggest that low cytoplasmic level of i kappa b alpha /mad-3 mrna be maintain by a translation-dependent degradation mechanism .
differential activation of functionally distinct stat5 protein by il-5 and gm-csf during eosinophil and neutrophil differentiation from human cd34+ hematopoietic stem cell .
interleukin-5 ( il-5 ) and granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) be important cytokine for the proliferation , differentiation , and activation of myeloid lineage .
the jak /stat pathway be one of the signaling pathway implicate in mediate biological response induce by these cytokine .
previous study have demonstrate that these cytokine predominantly activate an 80 kda stat5 isoform in mature granulocyte .
to well understand the role of stat protein during growth and differentiation of granulocyte , we evaluate differentiation of human cd34+ hematopoietic stem cell ex vivo toward eosinophil and neutrophil .
bandshift experiment show that in an early stage of both differentiation pathway ( 14 day ) , the 94 kda stat5b protein be activate by both il-5 ( eosinophil lineage ) and gm-csf ( neutrophil lineage ) .
however , during maturation of both lineage ( day 21 and 28 ) , increase expression of a functionally distinct 80 kda stat5 isoform be observe , result in heterodimer dna-binding complex contain both the 94 and 80 kda stat5 protein .
the finding that functionally distinct isoforms of stat5 be activate during the early and late differentiation stage of granulocyte suggest that they might be involve in regulate different biological function in these cell .
the impaired transcription factor ap-1 dna binding activity in lymphocyte derive from subject with some symptom of premature aging .
the study of human disorder know a premature aging syndrome may provide insight into the mechanism of cellular senescence .
the main feature of cellular senescence in vitro be cessation of cell proliferation .
down syndrome ( d ) and neuronal ceroid-lypofuscinosis ( ncl ) be clinically characterize by the premature onset of numerous feature normally associate with human aging .
phytohemagglutinin stimulated lymphocyte derive from d subject show a statistically significant diminish proliferation capacity in comparison with lymphocyte derive from ncl and healthy individual .
we demonstrate , by apply the electrophoretic mobility shift assay , slightly impaired ap-1 dna binding activity in ncl lymphocyte and strong in d one .
our result show that the same molecular mechanism of proliferation cessation could exist in fibroblast characterize by replicative senescence and in lymphocyte derive from individual with premature aging syndrome ( down
regulation of the interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) gene by mycobacterial component and lipopolysaccharide be mediate by two nuclear factor-il6 motif .
the cytokine interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) and tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) be release by mononuclear phagocyte in vitro after stimulation with mycobacteria and be consider to mediate pathophysiologic event , include granuloma formation and systemic symptom .
we demonstrate that the mycobacterium tuberculosis cell wall component lipoarabinomannan ( lam ) be a very potent inducer of il-1 beta gene expression in human monocyte and investigate the mechanism of this effect .
we localize the lam - , lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) - , and tnf-alpha -inducible promoter activity to a -131/+15 ( position -131 to +15 ) dna fragment of the il-1 beta gene by deletion analysis and chloramphenicol acetyltransferase assay .
within this dna fragment , there be two novel 9-bp motif ( -90/-82 and -40/-32 ) with high homology to the nuclear factor-il6 ( nf-il6 ) binding site .
site-directed mutagenesis demonstrate that the two nf-il-6 motif could be independently activate by lam , lp , or tnf-alpha and that they act in an orientation-independent manner .
dna mobility shift assay reveal specific binding of nuclear protein ( s ) from lam- , lps- , or tnf-alpha- stimulated thp-1 cell to the nf-il6 motif .
we conclude that the two nf-il6 site mediate induction of il-1 beta in response to the stimulus lam , lp , and tnf-alpha .
cytokine modulation of hiv expression .
cytokine , the peptide hormone which control the homeostasis of the immune system and also play a fundamental role in inflammatory and immune mediated reaction , have be involve at multiple level in the pathogenesis of the acquire immune deficiency syndrome ( aid ) .
infection with the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) have be show to induce production of several cytokine both in vitro and in vivo .
conversely , several cytokine modulate the level of hiv expression in infected cell of both t lymphocytic and mononuclear phagocytic lineage .
activate mononuclear cell , particularly b cell which be in a state of chronic activation in hiv infected individual , release hiv -inductive cytokine and thus play a potentially important role in the pathogenesis of hiv infection .
analysis of the ligand-binding domain of human retinoic acid receptor alpha by site-directed mutagenesis .
three subtypes of retinoic acid receptor ( rar ) , term rar alpha , rar beta , and rar gamma , have be describe .
they be compose of different structural domain , include distinct domain for dna and ligand binding .
rars specifically bind all-trans-retinoic acid ( ra ) , 9-cis-ra , and retinoid analog .
in this study , we examine the functional role of cysteine and arginine residue in the ligand-binding domain of hrar alpha ( hrar alpha-lbd , amino acid 154 to 462 ) .
all conserve cysteine and arginine residue in this domain be mutate by site-directed mutagenesis , and the mutant protein be characterize by block reaction , ligand-binding experiment , transactivation assay , and protease mapping .
change of any cysteine residue of the hrar alpha-lbd have no significant influence on the binding of all-trans ra or 9-cis ra .
interestingly , residue c-235 be specifically important in antagonist binding .
with respect to arginine residue , only the two single mutation of r-276 and r-394 to alanine show a dramatic decrease of agonist and antagonist binding whereas the r272a mutation show only a slight effect .
for all other arginine mutation , no difference in affinity be detectable .
the two mutation r217a and r294a cause an increase binding efficiency for antagonist but no change in agonist binding .
from these result , we can conclude that electrostatic interaction of retinoids with the rar alpha -lbd play a significant role in ligand binding .
in addition , antagonist show distinctly different requirement for efficient binding , which may contribute to their interference in the ligand-inducible transactivation function of rar alpha .
inhibition of t lymphocyte activation by camp be associate with down-regulation of two parallel mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway , the extracellular signal-related kinase and c-jun n-terminal kinase .
the induction of t cell proliferation require signal from the tcr and a co-receptor molecule , such a cd28 , that activate parallel and partially cross-reactive signaling pathway .
these pathway be disrupt by agonist that utilize adenylate cyclase and camp -dependent protein kinase a ( pka ) .
we find that the adenylate cyclase activator , forskolin , inhibit anti-cd3 -induced shift in lck electrophoretic mobility , suggest an intervention at the tcr -coupled phosphoinositide turnover that precede the activation of pkc .
the shift of lck follow direct pkc activation by 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate , which bypass early receptor-triggered biochemical event , be insensitive to forskolin .
nevertheless , forskolin also inhibit pkc downstream event , such a c-jun expression , which be critical for the activation process of t cell .
to far analyze potential cross point between positively and negatively regulate signaling pathway in t cell , we test the effect of activator of the adenylate cyclase or pka on two parallel mitogen-activated protein kinase signaling pathway mediate by extracellular signal-regulated kinase ( erk ) and c-jun n-terminal kinase .
use a pkc -specific inhibitor , gf109203x , or pkc -depleted t cell , we find that a large part of the anti-cd3 -induced erk activation be pkc dependent .
both pkc- dependent and -independent activation of erk be sensitive to inhibition by forskolin or a cell-permeable camp analogue , dbcamp .
furthermore , the effect of 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol 13-acetate and ionomycin , which synergized to fully activate c-jun n-terminal kinase , be also sensitive to inhibition by forskolin .
our result suggest that pka inhibit t cell activation by interfere with multiple event along the two signaling pathway operate downstream of the tcr and the cd28 co-receptor molecule .
a human putative lymphocyte g0/g1 switch gene contain a cpg-rich island encode a small basic protein with the potential to be phosphorylated .
gene actively involve in the g0/g1 switch ( g0s gene ) may be differentially express during the lectin -induced switch of lymphocyte from the g0 to the g1 phase of the cell cycle .
this paper present study of g0s2 , a member of a set of putative g0s gene , for which cdna be clone and select on the basis of differential cdna hybridization .
g0s2 mrna increase transiently within 1-2 hr of the addition of lectin or cycloheximide to culture blood mononuclear cell .
comparison of a nearly full-length cdna sequence with the corresponding genomic sequence reveal one small intron and an open reading frame in the second exon .
the derive 103-amino-acid basic protein have two potential alpha-helical domain separate by a hydrophobic region with the potential to generate turn and assume a beta-sheet conformation .
consistent with involvement in the g0/g1 switch , the protein contain potential site for phosphorylation by protein kinase c and casein kinase ii .
the gene contain a cpg-rich island suggest expression in the germ line .
an upstream segment contain tandem dinucleotide repeat (ct)19/(ca)16 .
there be a suitably located tata box , but potential site for ccaat-box binding factor be far upstream , embedded in a 42-nucleotide repeat element .
potential site for transcription factor ap1 , ap2 , and ap3 be consistent with rapid transcriptional activation in response to induce agent .
granulosa cell tumor of the ovary .
immunohistochemical evidence of low proliferative activity and virtual absence of mutation of the p53 tumor-suppressor gene .
background and method : because the use of immunohistochemistry in the diagnosis of granulosa cell tumor ( gct ) have not be fully explore , routinely process ( formalin-fixed , paraffin-embedded ) tissue from 11 gct , adult type , be investigate immunohistochemically ( abc method ) with a broad spectrum of antibody against various marker , include p53 and ki-67 .
all of the tumor exhibit typical morphology , be limit to the ovary ( stage i ) , and 7 case follow a benign clinical course .
result : all the tumor exhibit strong expression of vimentin , but most other antigen ( include smooth muscle actin ) be express infrequently by a minority of tumor cell or not at all .
tumor cell in 9 gct express inhibin a .
all the tumor exhibit very low proliferative activity , few than 10 % of the tumor cell nucleus be stain by the antibody mib-1 ( ki-67 antigen ) .
the antibody d07 reveal marked overexpression of p53 protein in only one tumor .
clinical outcome be not find to be related to immunophenotypic difference .
conclusion : the diagnosis of gct should be base primarily on the typical morphology reveal by conventional stain , but additional immunohistochemical staining with a small panel of select antibody ( for example , against keratin , vimentin , and inhibin a ) may be helpful in a few case .
the very low proliferative activity and the lack of overexpression of p53 protein be consistent with the benign clinical behavior of the majority of gct .
p105 and p98 precursor protein play an active role in nf-kappa b -mediated signal transduction .
the rel/ nf-kappa b family of transcription factor be compose of two distinct subgroup , protein that undergo proteolytic processing and contain swi6/ankyrin repeat in their carboxyl terminus ( p105 , p98 ) , and those without such repeat that do not require processing ( p65 , c-rel , relb , and dorsal ) .
we demonstrate that the p105 and p98 precursor share functional property with the i kappa b protein , which also contain swi6/ankyrin repeat .
both p105 and p98 be find to form stable complex with other rel/ nf-kappa b family member , include p65 and c-rel .
association with the precursor be sufficient for cytoplasmic retention of either p65 or c-rel , both of which be otherwise nuclear .
these complex undergo stimulus-responsive processing to produce active p50/ c-rel and p55/ c-rel complex .
these observation suggest a second pathway lead to nf-kappa b induction , in which processing of the precursor rather than phosphorylation of i kappa b play a major role .
differential induction of dna-binding activity follow cd19 cross-linking in human b lineage cell .
the b cell-specific cell surface molecule cd19 be express at all stage of b cell development , include normal plasma cell , and mediate signal transduction via interaction with cytoplasmic effector protein .
cross-link cd19 on early human b lineage cell induce the formation of a cd19 /vav/phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase complex , tyrosine phosphorylation of cd19 and vav , and activation of the ra pathway .
to far explore the ramification of cd19 signaling , the current study examine whether phosphorylation of elk-1 , activation of activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) , or activation of nuclear factor-kappab ( nf-kappab ) transcription factor occur follow cd19 cross-linking .
the cell use be the blin-1 pre-b cell line express low level of cell surface mu heavy chain associate with surrogate light chain and the 1e8 immature b cell line express cell surface mu/kappa .
lysates from cd19 cross-linked 1e8 cell induce robust phosphorylation of an elk-1 fusion protein in vitro , whereas no phosphorylation of elk-1 fusion protein occur use lysates from cd19 cross-linked blin-1 cell .
an electrophoretic mobility shift assay employ ap-1 and nf-kappab consensus oligonucleotides be use to demonstrate that ap-1 _-binding activity increase , while constitutive nf-kappab -binding activity be not enhance , follow 2 h of cd19 cross-linking in 1e8 cell . supershift experiment reveal that jund and c-fos protein mediate anti- cd19 induced ap-1 -binding activity in 1e8 cell .
in contrast , cd19 cross-linking in blin-1 cell result in the induction of nf-kappab , but have no apparent effect on ap-1 -binding activity .
these data suggest that cd19 -mediated signal transduction activate different transcription factor at juxtapose stage of b cell development that may culminate in the activation or suppression of distinct set of gene .
tyrosine kinase and camp -dependent protein kinase activity in cd40-activated human b lymphocyte .
in vitro , human b lymphocyte undergo long-term proliferation when activate through cd40 , a protein express on their cell surface .
the nature of cd40 -dependent signal in proliferate fresh human epstein-barr virus -negative b lymphocyte be currently unknown .
in this study , a cd40 -dependent b cell culture system be use to examine the role of different signal transduction element .
protein kinase c ( pkc ) depletion generate by a long-term phorbol 12 myristate 13-acetate treatment have weak effect on proliferation .
rather , tyrosine phosphorylation be show to be directly involve in mediate cd40 -dependent signal .
the use of the protein tyrosine kinase ( ptk ) -specific inhibitor herbimycin a dramatically decrease cellular proliferation without alter the activity of the human immunodeficiency virus-1 long terminal repeat ( hiv-1 ltr ) , a promoter largely dependent on the binding of nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-_kappa b ) .
in contrast , the camp -dependent protein kinase specific inhibitor h-89 totally inhibit hiv-1 ltr activity at a concentration as low a 100 nm without affect cellular proliferation .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) and supershift assay use an nf-kappa b binding sequence from the kappa light chain a a probe , reveal that both p65 ( rela ) and c-rel be present in cd40 -stimulated b cell .
while pkc depletion do not alter the nf-kappa b level , treatment of b lymphocyte with h-89 or herbimycin a provoke a decrease in the nf-kappa b level .
these observation establish the importance of different signal transducing pathway lead to cd40 activation of b lymphocyte .
paternal expression of wt1 in human fibroblast and lymphocyte .
the wilms ' tumor suppressor gene ( wt1 ) be previously identify a be imprint , with frequent maternal expression in human placenta and fetal brain .
we examine the allele-specific expression of wt1 in culture human fibroblast from 15 individual .
seven of 15 fibroblast line be heterozygous for polymorphic allele , and the expression pattern be variable , i.e. , equal , unequal or monoallelic paternal expression in three , two and two case , respectively .
exclusive paternal expression of wt1 be also show in non-cultured peripheral lymphocyte from the latter two individual .
the allele-specific expression profile of other imprinted gene , igf2 and h19 , on human chromosome 11 be constant and consistent with those in other tissue .
our unexpected observation of paternal or biallelic expression of wt1 in fibroblast and lymphocyte , together with the previous finding of maternal or biallelic expression in placenta and brain , suggest that the allele-specific regulatory system of wt1 be unique and may be control by a putative tissue- and individual-specific modifier .
detection of the chromosome 16 cbf beta-myh11 fusion transcript in myelomonocytic leukemia .
karyotypic detection of chromosomal 16 abnormality classically associate with aml m4eo can be difficult .
characterization of the two gene involve in the inv(16)(p13q22) , cbf beta and myh11 , have allow the detection of fusion transcript by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) .
we have analyze cbf beta -myh11 fusion transcript by rt-pcr in myelomonocytic leukemia , with or without eosinophilia , to determine whether their presence correlate with morphology .
fifty-three case ( 11 aml m4eo ; 1 aml m4 with atypical abnormal eosinophil ( aml m4 " eo " ) ; 29 aml m4 ; 8 aml m5 ; 3 cmml ; and 1 aml m2 with eosinophilia ) be analyze .
all 11 typical aml m4eo be cbf beta -myh11 positive .
the single case of aml m4 with distinctive eosinophil abnormality be negative by karyotype , rt-pcr and fluorescent in situ hybridization ( fish ) .
three of 29 ( 10 % ) aml m4 without abnormal eosinophil be cbf beta -myh11 positive , 1 of which do not show any apparent chromosome 16 abnormality by classical metaphase analysis ( 2 not test ) .
both case test also show myh11 genomic rearrangement .
none of the other leukemia be rt-pcr positive .
follow-up of three patient show residual positivity in apparent complete remission .
these data show that cbf beta -myh11 fusion transcript occur not only in the vast majority of typical aml m4eo , but also in approximately 10 % of aml m4 without eosinophilic abnormality , a much high incidence than the sporadic report of chromosome 16 abnormality in aml m4 would suggest .
take together with the detection of cbf beta - myh11 transcript in the absence of apparent chromosome 16 abnormality by classical banding technique , these data show that additional screening by either rt-pcr or fish should be perform in all aml m4 , regardless of morphologic feature , to allow accurate evaluation of the prognostic importance of this fusion transcript .
the t-cell oncogenic protein hox11 activate aldh1 expression in nih 3t3 cell but repress it expression in mouse spleen development .
hox11 be a homeobox gene essential for spleen formation in mouse , since atrophy of the anlage of a develop spleen occur in early embryonic development in hox11 null mouse .
hox11 be also express in a subset of t-cell acute leukemia after specific chromosomal translocation .
since the protein have a homeodomain and can activate transcription , it probably exert at least some of it effect in vivo by regulation of target gene .
representational difference analysis have be use to isolate cdna clone correspond to mrna specie activate follow stable expression of hox11 in nih 3t3 cell .
the gene encode the retinoic acid-synthesizing enzyme aldehyde dehydrogenase 1 ( aldh1 ) , initially call hdg-1 , be find to be ectopically activate by hox11 in this system .
study of aldh1 gene expression during spleen development show that the presence of aldh1 mrna inversely correlate with hox11 .
hox11 null mouse embryo have elevated aldh1 mrna in spleen primordium prior to atrophy , while aldh1 seem to be repress by hox11 during organogenesis of the spleen of wild-type mouse .
this result suggest that expression of aldh1 protein be negatively regulate by hox11 and that abnormal expression of aldh1 in hox11 null mouse may cause loss of splenic precursor cell by aberrant retinoic acid metabolism
a pmlraralpha transgene initiate murine acute promyelocytic leukemia .
the malignant cell of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) contain a reciprocal chromosomal translocation that fuse the promyelocytic leukemia gene ( pml ) with the retinoic acid receptor alpha gene ( rar alpha ) .
to test the hypothesis that the chimera pmlrar alpha play a role in leukemogenesis , we express a pmlrar alpha cdna in myeloid cell of transgenic mouse .
pmlrar alpha transgenic mouse exhibit impaired neutrophil maturation early in life , which progress at a low frequency over the course of several month to overt apl .
both the preleukemic state and the leukemia could be transplant to nontransgenic mouse , and the transplant preleukemia could progress to apl .
the apl recapitulate feature of the human disease , include a response to retinoic acid .
retinoic acid cause the leukemic cell to differentiate in vitro and in vivo , elicit remission of both the preleukemic state and apl in mouse .
our result demonstrate that pmlrar alpha impair neutrophil differentiation and initiate the development of apl .
the transgenic mouse describe here provide an apparently accurate model for human apl that include clear evidence of tumor progression .
the model should be useful for explore the molecular pathogenesis of apl and the mechanism of the therapeutic response to retinoic acid , as well a for preclinical study of therapeutic regimen .
in vivo anergized cd4+ t cell express perturb ap-1 and nf-kappa b transcription factor .
anergy be a major mechanism to ensure antigen-specific tolerance in t lymphocyte in the adult .
in vivo , anergy have mainly be study at the cellular level .
in this study , we use the t-cell-activating superantigen staphylococcal enterotoxin a ( sea ) to investigate molecular mechanism of t-lymphocyte anergy in vivo .
injection of sea to adult mouse activate cd4+ t cell express certain t-cell receptor ( tcr ) variable region beta-chain family and induce strong and rapid production of interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) .
in contrast , repeated injection of sea cause cd4+ t-cell deletion and anergy in the remain cd4+ t cell , characterize by reduce expression of il-2 at mrna and protein level .
we analyze expression of ap-1 , nf-kappa b , nf-at , and octamer binding transcription factor , which be know to be involve in the regulation of il-2 gene promoter activity .
large amount of ap-1 and nf-kappa b and significant quantity of nf-at be induce in sea -activated cd4+ spleen t cell , whereas oct-1 and oct-2 dna binding activity be similar in both rest and activate t cell .
in contrast , anergic cd4+ t cell contain severely reduce level of ap-1 and fos/jun-containing nf-at complex but express significant amount of nf-kappa b and oct binding protein after sea stimulation .
resolution of the nf-kappa b complex demonstrate predominant expression of p50-p65 heterodimers in activate cd4+ t cell , while anergic cell mainly express the transcriptionally inactive p50 homodimer .
these alteration of transcription factor be likely to be responsible for repression of il-2 in anergic t cell .
pivotal role for the nfil3/e4bp4 transcription factor in interleukin 3 -mediated survival of pro-b lymphocyte .
the e2a-hlf ( hepatic leukemia factor ) oncoprotein , generate in pro-b lymphocyte by fusion of the trans-activation domain of e2a to the basic region/leucine zipper ( bzip ) domain of hlf , function a an anti-apoptotic transcription factor in leukemic cell transformation .
when introduce into interleukin 3 ( il-3 ) -dependent mouse pro-b lymphocyte , e2a-hlf prevent apoptosis induce by growth factor deprivation , suggest that il-3 mediate cell survival through activation of a transcription factor whose activity can be constitutively replace by the chimeric oncoprotein .
we consider four bzip transcription factor a candidate for this putative il-3 -regulated factor , each of which bind avidly to the dna consensus sequence recognize by e2a-hlf and be related to the caenorhabditis elegans ces-2 ( cell death specification protein ) neuron-specific mediator of cell death .
the expression and binding activity of the nfil3 protein ( also call e4bp4 ) , but not of hlf , dbp , or tef , be find to be regulate by il-3 in mouse pro-b cell line ( baf-3 and fl5.12 ) .
northern blot analysis show that nfil3/ e4bp4 be regulate a a " delayed-early " il-3 -responsive gene , require de novo protein synthesis .
in the absence of il-3 , enforced expression of the human nfil3/e4bp4 cdna promote the survival but not the growth of il-3 -dependent pro-b cell .
our result implicate nfil3/e4bp4 ( nuclear factor regulate by il-3 /adenovirus e4 promoter binding protein ) in a distinct growth factor-regulated signaling pathway that be responsible for the survival of early b-cell progenitor , and whose alteration by e2a-hlf lead to childhood b lineage leukemia .
cytokine rescue from glucocorticoid induced apoptosis in t cell be mediate through inhibition of ikappabalpha .
we previously report that dexamethasone ( dex ) , a synthetic glucocorticoid , cause apoptosis in mature th cell line , and that this induction of cell death be prevent by specific cytokine , namely , by il-2 in th1 cell and by il-4 in th2 cell .
we now show that this differential rescue by specific cytokine in th cell correlate with the level of ikappabalpha that be regulate by dex and cytokine .
in both cell type the cellular level of ikappabalpha mrna and protein be evaluate by dex treatment .
interestingly , the dex -mediated ikappabalpha induction be completely inhibit by il-2 , but not il-4 , in th1 cell , while the reverse profile be see in th2 cell .
in both cell type , the cytokine that inhibit the induction of ikappabalpha by dex , also rescue these cell from dex -induced apoptosis , although the rescue cytokine be different in th1 and th2 cell .
our result imply that t cell need to maintain a certain level of nf-kappab transcriptional activity in order to survive ; up- or down-regulation of nuclear nf kappab through modulation of ikappabalpha expression by cytokine or dex may lead to cell survival or cell death , respectively .
s-allyl cysteine inhibit activation of nuclear factor kappa b in human t cell .
reactive oxygen specie be involve in signal transduction pathway lead to nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation which have be implicate in the regulation of gene transcription .
we recently report that a garlic compound , s-allyl cysteine ( sac ) , protect bovine pulmonary artery endothelial cell from oxidant injury induce by hydrogen peroxide ( h2o2 ) .
in this study we determine the effect of sac on nf-kappa b activation in human t lymphocyte ( jurkat cell ) induce by tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-_alpha ) and h2o2 .
activate nf-kappa b in nuclear extract be measure by an electrophoretic mobility shift assay use 32p-labeled probe .
sac consistently exhibit a dose-dependent inhibition of nf-kappa b activation induce by both tnf-alpha and h2o2 .
supershift with specific antibody to nf-kappa b subunit confirm that the inducible retard band observe in the emsa and p65-p50 heterodimer of the nf-kappa b /rel protein .
our data suggest that sac may act via antioxidant mechanism to block nf-kappa b activation in jurkat cell .
transcriptional regulation of interleukin 3 ( il3 ) in primary human t lymphocyte .
role of ap-1- and octamer- binding protein in control of il3 gene expression .
we have investigate the molecular and biochemical basis for activation of interleukin 3 ( il3 ) gene expression in primary human t lymphocyte follow cd3 and cd2 receptor stimulation or activation by phytohemagglutinin plus phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate .
use transfection and reporter gene assay specifically design for primary t lymphocyte in conjunction with gel retardation assay , western blot analysis and uv cross-linking study , we find that c-jun , c-fos , and octamer-binding protein play a major role in transcriptional activation of the il3 gene via their interaction with two specific region contain within the il3 5'-flanking sequence .
additionally , the region between base -107 and -59 of the il3 promoter contain putative ap-2 and sp1 binding motif appear necessary for basal level expression of the il3 gene .
the data also indicate that cd2 receptor activation and phytohemagglutinin plus phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate stimulation augment t cell il3 gene expression through the same cis- and trans-activating signal .
these result should contribute to a good understanding of the regulation of il3 gene expression in human t lymphocyte .
hiv type 1 protease activation of nf-kappa b within t lymphoid cell .
nf-kappa b be a nuclear protein of the rel oncogene family capable of enhance transcription of several cellular gene , include il-2 and the il-2 receptor , and viral gene transcribe from the hiv-1 ltr .
it have be report that hiv-1 protease may cleave the nf-kappa b precursor to it active form in vitro .
in this study the effect of hiv protease on nf-kappa b precursor activation be examine in jurkat t cell by introduce a protease expression vector into the cell .
increase nf-kappa b activity be observe and this increase activity be block by a specific inhibitor of the viral protease .
viral transcription , a measure use ltr -cat assay , be only slightly enhance in the hiv-protease expressing cell , while secretion of il-2 and expression of the il-2 receptor be not affect .
the limited activation of nf-kappa b by hiv protease appear unlikely to have a significant effect on virus expression or t cell function .
heat shock induce hiv-1 replication in chronically infected promyelocyte cell line om10.1 .
a long period of clinical latency before development of symptom be characteristic of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection .
om10.1 , a promyelocyte cell line latently infect with hiv-1 , have be develop a a model for study the mechanism of viral latency and the activation of virus expression .
we find that this latently infected cell line with heat shock at 42 degree c for 2 h result in a high level of hiv-1 production without addition of any cytokine .
the mechanism of activation be analyze by use anti-tnf-alpha antibody and various inhibitor .
although the tnf-alpha level in culture supernatant be below the sensitivity of an elisa assay system , addition of anti- tnf-alpha antibody in culture medium could partially suppress the heat shock induced hiv-1 production .
staurosporine ( pkc inhibitor ) , pentoxifylline ( nf-kappa b inhibitor ) , and ro5-3335 ( hiv-1 tat inhibitor ) also inhibit significantly the heat shock induced virus activation .
in particular , staurosporine achieve approximately 90 % inhibition of the hiv-1 antigen expression in heat shock -treated om10.1 at a non-toxic concentration .
although the mechanism of hiv-1 activation with heat shock have not be fully elucidate yet , it be presume pkc play an important role in hiv-1 activation .
thus , the present observation will provide a further insight into the pathogenesis of hiv-1 infection .
regulation of cell-type-specific interleukin-2 receptor alpha-chain gene expression : potential role of physical interaction between elf-1 , hmg-i(y) , and nf-kappa b family protein .
the interleukin 2 receptor alpha-chain ( il-2r alpha ) gene be rapidly and potently induce in t cell in response to mitogenic stimulus .
previously , an inducible enhancer between nucleotide -299 and -228 that contain nf-kappa b and carg motif be identify .
we now report the characterization of a second essential positive regulatory element located between nucleotide -137 and -64 that bind elf-1 and hmg-i(y) .
this element have maximal activity in lymphoid cell , parallel the cell type specificity of elf-1 expression .
transcription from the il-2r alpha promoter be inhibit when either the elf-1 or the hmg-i(y) binding site be mutate .
coexpression of both protein activate transcription of the -137 to -64 element in cos-7 cell .
elf-1 physically associate with hmg-i and with nf-kappa b p50 and c-rel in vitro , suggest that protein-protein interaction might functionally coordinate the action of the upstream and downstream positive regulatory element .
this be the first report of a physical interaction between an ets family member and nf-kappa b family protein .
these finding provide significant new insight into the protein-protein and protein-dna interaction that regulate cell-type-specific and inducible il-2r alpha gene expression and also have implication for other gene regulate by elf-1 and nf-kappa b family protein .
transcriptional regulation during myelopoiesis .
the coordinate production of all blood cell from a common stem cell be a highly regulate process involve successive stage of commitment and differentiation .
from analysis of mouse deficient in transcription factor gene and from the characterization of chromosome breakpoints in human leukemia , it have become evident that transcription factor be important regulator of hematopoiesis .
during myelopoiesis , which include the development of granulocytic and monocytic lineage , transcription factor from several family be active , include aml1/cbf beta , c/ebp , ets , c-myb , hox , and mzf-1 .
few of these factor be express exclusively in myeloid cell ; instead it appear that they cooperatively regulate transcription of myeloid-specific gene .
here we discuss recent advance in transcriptional regulation during myelopoiesis .
hematopoietic lineage commitment : role of transcription factor .
this review focus on the role of transcription factor in hematopoietic lineage commitment .
a brief introduction to lineage commitment and asymmetric cell division be follow by a discussion of several method use to identify transcription factor important in specify hematopoietic cell type .
next be present a discussion of the use of embryonic stem cell in the analysis of hematopoietic gene expression and the use of target gene disruption to analyze the role of transcription factor in hematopoiesis .
finally , the status of our current knowledge concern the role of transcription factor in the commitment to erythroid , myeloid and lymphoid cell type be summarize .
the interleukin-8 ap-1 and kappa b-like site be genetic end target of fk506-sensitive pathway accompany by calcium mobilization .
fk506 , an immunosuppressant , inhibit the production of several cytokine in t lymphocyte .
we observe that fk506 suppress the transcription of a chemotactic cytokine , interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) in a human t cell line , jurkat cell , activate by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and calcium ( ca2+ ) ionophore ( ionomycin ) .
by deleted and mutate analysis of the il-8 promoter , the ap-1 and kappa b-like site be identify a the responsive element for pma and ionomycin .
fk506 suppress the transcription through the ap-1 or kappa b-like site induce by pma plus ca(2+)-mobilizing agent , but not those induce by ca(2+)-independent stimulus .
in gel retardation analysis , fk506 have little effect on the binding to the ap-1 site of pma / ionomycin -induced nuclear factor , which be recognize with anti-jund or c-fos antibody .
in contrast , fk506 or egta ( ca2+ chelator ) similarly affect the formation of kappa b-like site binding complex , which be not recognize by any antibody against the human rel family protein ( c-rel , p65 , p50 , and p49 ) .
furthermore , we confirm the previous report that fk506 suppress the pma / ionomycin -induced activation through authentic kappa b site of immunoglobulin ( ig ) gene , to which nf-kappa b binding be also decrease by fk506 , indicate that both il-8 kappa b-like site and ig kappa b site be fk506 -sensitive in spite of the difference of binding factor .
our result indicate that not only the report il-2 nf-at and nfil-2a site and ig kappa b site , but also the il-8 ap-1 and kappa b-like site be terminal of fk506 -sensitive pathway involve ca2+ mobilization .
detection of adenovirus dna in peripheral blood mononuclear cell by polymerase chain reaction assay .
adenovirus can establish persistent infection which may reactivate and cause disease in immunocompromised host .
lymphocyte have be postulate to serve a a site of adenoviral persistence base upon the ability to isolate adenovirus from tonsil and to detect adenovirus dna by southern blot hybridization in peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) .
to test this hypothesis , a more sensitive and specific polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) assay be develop to detect adenovirus dna .
two set of nest primer be design to conserve sequence in the adenovirus e1a and hexon gene .
the e1a and hexon primer amplify dna from representative adenoviral serotypes in all six adenoviral group ( a-f ) .
both primer detect a single copy of the adenovirus type 2 genome but be less sensitive for the group b type 35 .
none of 33 pbmc specimen from healthy adult and only one of 40 pediatric sample be positive ( at a low level ) for adenovirus dna by nested pcr assay .
in comparison , pbmc from two child with fatal adenoviral infection be both strongly positive for adenovirus dna .
it be conclude that , in contrast to a previous study , pbmc be not a common site of persistent group c adenoviral infection .
in addition , assay of pbmc by the adenovirus -specific pcr may help detect early invasive disease and warrant further evaluation .
dna-binding study of the epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 ( ebna-2 ) : evidence for complex formation by latent membrane protein gene promoter-binding protein in ebna-2 -positive cell line .
the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) nuclear antigen 2 ( ebna-2 ) protein be essential for the immortalization of human primary b cell by ebv .
ebna-2 trans-activates cellular and viral gene like cd23 , c-fgr , latent membrane protein 1 ( lmp1 ) and terminal protein 1 ( tp1 ) .
trans-activation of the tp1 promoter and of the bamhi c promoter have already be investigate in detail and appear to be mediate via protein-protein interaction and not by direct binding of ebna-2 type a ( of ebv type 1 ) to the dna .
ebna-2 be able to trans-activate the expression of the lmp gene in several cell line .
various report have delineate the cis-acting element of the lmp promoter through which ebna-2 mediate trans-activation .
to determine whether ebna-2 also trans-activates the lmp promoter by protein-protein interaction , we perform a series of gel retardation assay and competition experiment with lmp promoter fragment of different size .
we determine that the protein-binding region on the lmp promoter be within a 42 bp fragment encompass nucleotide -135 to -176 relative to the lmp transcriptional start site .
none of the dna fragment investigate indicate interaction of ebna-2 with the dna via protein-protein interaction .
no significant difference between ebna-2 -positive and ebna-2 -negative nuclear extract could be see in the gel retardation assay under condition that clearly show binding of ebna-2a to the tp1 promoter .
however , analysis of sucrose gradient fraction in the gel retardation assay provide evidence that the lmp promoter -binding protein form a complex of high m(r) in ebna-2 -positive cell extract .
these complex be destroy by detergent .
we deduce from these result that ebna-2 -positive cell might indeed contain specific complex bind to the lmp promoter which be , however , too labile to be detect in a standard gel retardation assay .
thrombopoietin induce tyrosine phosphorylation of stat3 and stat5 in human blood platelet .
thrombopoietin be know to be essential for megakaryocytopoiesis and thrombopoiesis .
recently , we and others have show that thrombopoietin induce rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of jak2 and other protein in human platelet and baf3 cell , genetically engineer to express c-mpl , a receptor for thrombopoietin .
the jak family of tyrosine kinase be know to mediate some of the effect of cytokine or hematopoietic growth factor by recruitment and tyrosine phosphorylation of a variety of stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) protein .
hence , we have investigate whether stat protein be present in platelet and , if so , whether they become tyrosine phosphorylated in response to thrombopoietin .
we immunologically identify stat1 , stat2 , stat3 , and stat5 in human platelet lysates .
thrombopoietin induce tyrosine phosphorylation of stat3 and stat5 in these cell .
thrombopoietin also induce tyrosine phosphorylation of stat3 and stat5 in fdcp-2 cell genetically engineer to constitutively express human c-mpl .
thus , our data indicate that stat3 and stat5 may be involve in signal transduction after ligand binding to c-mpl and that this event may have a role in megakaryopoiesis/ thrombopoiesis or possibly a mature platelet function such a aggregation .
rapid ca2+-mediated activation of rap1 in human platelet .
rap1 be a small , ras-like gtpase whose function and regulation be still largely unknown .
we have develop a novel assay to monitor the active , gtp-bound form of rap1 base on the differential affinity of rap1gtp and rap1gdp for the rap binding domain of ralgds ( rbd ) .
stimulation of blood platelet with alpha-thrombin or other platelet activator cause a rapid and strong induction of rap1 that associate with rbd in vitro .
binding to rbd increase from undetectable level in rest platelet to > 50 % of total rap1 within 30 s after stimulation .
an increase in the intracellular ca2+ concentration be both necessary and sufficient for rap1 activation since it be induce by agent that increase intracellular ca2+ and inhibit by a ca2+ -chelating agent .
neither inhibition of translocation of rap1 to the cytoskeleton nor inhibition of platelet aggregation affect thrombin -induced activation of rap1 .
in contrast , prostaglandin i2 ( pgi2 ) , a strong negative regulator of platelet function , inhibit agonist-induced as well a ca2+ -induced activation of rap1 .
from our result , we conclude that rap1 activation in platelet be an important common event in early agonist-induced signalling , and that this activation be mediate by an increase intracellular ca2+ concentration
tap : a novel cellular protein that interact with tip of herpesvirus saimiri and induce lymphocyte aggregation .
tip of herpesvirus saimiri associate with lck and down-regulates lck -mediated activation .
we identify a novel cellular tip-associated protein ( tap ) by a yeast two-hybrid screen .
tap associate with tip follow transient expression in cos-1 cell and stable expression in human jurkat-t cell .
expression of tip and tap in jurkat-t cell induce dramatic cell aggregation .
aggregation be likely cause by the up-regulated surface expression of adhesion molecule include integrin alpha , l-selectin , icam-3 , and h-cam .
furthermore , nf-kappab transcriptional factor of aggregated cell have approximately 40-fold high activity than that of parental cell .
thus , tap be likely to be an important cellular mediator of tip function in t cell transformation by herpesvirus saimiri .
hypoxic induction of interleukin-8 gene expression in human endothelial cell .
because leukocyte-mediated tissue damage be an important component of the pathologic picture in ischemia/reperfusion , we have seek mechanism by which pmns be direct into hypoxic tissue .
incubation of human endothelial cell ( ec ) in hypoxia , po2 approximately 14-18 torr , lead to time-dependent release of il-8 antigen into the conditioned medium ; this be accompany by increase chemotactic activity for pmns , block by antibody to il-8 .
production of il-8 by hypoxic ec occur concomitantly with both increase level of il-8 mrna , base on polymerase chain reaction analysis , and increase il-8 transcription , base on nuclear run-on assay .
northern analysis of mrna from hypoxic ec also demonstrate increase level of mrna for macrophage chemotactic protein-1 , another member of the chemokine superfamily of proinflammatory cytokine .
il-8 gene induction be associate with the presence of increase binding activity in nuclear extract from hypoxic ec for the nf-kb site .
study with human umbilical vein segment expose to hypoxia also demonstrate increase elaboration of il-8 antigen compare with normoxic control .
in mouse expose to hypoxia ( po2 approximately 30-40 torr ) , there be increase pulmonary leukostasis , a evidence by increase myeloperoxidase activity in tissue homogenate .
in parallel , increase level of transcript for ip-10 , a murine homologue in the chemokine family related to il-8 , be observe in hypoxic lung tissue .
take together , these data suggest that hypoxia constitute a stimulus for leukocyte chemotaxis and tissue leukostasis .
role of the x2 box in activate transcription from the dra promoter in b cell .
we investigate the function of the evolutionary conserve x2 box in the promoter of the hla-dra gene from the human major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) in rest and activate b cell .
nf-x2 , which contain member of the ap-1/atf/creb family of transcription factor , interact with the x2 box ( 5'-tgcgtca-3' ) from position -97 to -91 in the dra promoter .
in rest raji cell , little to no binding to the x2 box be observe .
in sharp contrast , in b cell treat with the phorbol ester 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) , strong interaction between the x2 box and nf-x2 contain c-fos be observe .
a determine by transient expression and rna analysis , the activation of protein kinase c ( pkc ) also increase rate of transcription from the wild-type dra promoter but not from a dra promoter bear clustered point mutation in the x2 box .
since the co-expression with a dominant negative c-fos abolish the responsiveness to tpa , we conclude that activate transcription of the dra gene depend on interaction between the x2 box and nf-x2 , which contain c-fos .
the role of nfatp in cyclosporin a-sensitive tumor necrosis factor -alpha gene transcription .
the tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf alpha ) gene be an immediate early gene in activate t cell , in that it be rapidly induce without a requirement for protein synthesis .
maximal induction of tnf alpha mrna can be induce by treatment of t cell with calcium ionophores alone , via a calcineurin -dependent process that be block by cyclosporin a .
we have previously identify a promoter element , kappa 3 , that be require for calcium-stimulated , cyclosporin a -sensitive induction of the tnf alpha gene in activate t cell .
here , we demonstrate that the kappa 3 binding factor contain nfatp , a cyclosporin-sensitive dna-binding protein require for interleukin-2 gene transcription .
nfatp bind to two site within the kappa 3 element , and occupancy of both site be require for tnf alpha gene induction .
thus , although the kappa 3 element have little sequence similarity to other nfatp -binding site , it appear to function a a cyclosporin-sensitive promoter element in t cell by virtue of it ability to bind nfatp .
the involvement of nfatp in transcriptional activation of both the interleukin-2 and tnf alpha gene suggest that this factor play an important role in the coordinate induction of multiple cytokine gene , start at the early stage of t cell activation .
t-cell -directed tal-1 expression induce t-cell malignancy in transgenic mouse .
the tal-1 gene specify for a basic domain-helix-loop-helix protein , which be involve in the control of normal hematopoiesis .
in human pathology , the tal-1 gene product be express in a high percentage of t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the pediatric age range ; however , it have not be establish whether the expression have a causal role in oncogenesis .
in this report , we describe the phenotype of mouse transgenic line obtain by induce tal-1 protein expression in lymphoid tissue use the lck promoter .
the survival rate of tal-1 transgenic animal be much low a compare with control mouse .
histopathological analysis reveal lymphoma of t-cell type , often comprise a minor b-cell component .
some mouse show marked splenic lymphocyte depletion .
primary lymphocyte culture show partial independence from exogenous growth stimulus and increase resistance to low-serum apoptosis .
to far unravel the tal-1 oncogenic potential , a strain of tal-1 transgenic mouse be crossbreed with p53-/- mouse ; the survival rate in these animal be reduce by more than one-half when compare with that of tal-1 mouse , and histopathological analysis reveal exclusively t-cell lymphoma .
these data indicate that tal-1 , express in t cell , be per se a potent oncogene , which may exert a key leukemogenetic role in the majority of t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
characterization of grb2-binding protein in human platelet activate by fc gamma riia cross-linking .
glutathione-s-transferase ( gst ) -grb2 fusion protein have be use to identify the potential role of grb2-binding protein in platelet activation by the platelet low-affinity igg receptor , fc gamma riia .
two tyrosine phosphoprotein of 38 and 63 kd bind to the sh2 domain of grb2 follow fc gamma riia stimulation of platelet .
both be located in the particulate fraction follow platelet activation and be also able to bind to a gst-construct contain the sh2 and sh3 domain of phospholipase c gamma 1 .
p38 also form a complex with the tyrosine kinase csk in stimulate cell and be a substrate for the kinase .
the sh3 domain of grb2 form a stable complex with sos1 and two protein of 75 kd and 120 kd , which undergo tyrosine phosphorylation in fc gamma riia stimulated cell .
the 75-kd protein be recognize by antibody to slp-76 , which have recently be isolate from t cell and sequence .
tyrosine phosphorylation of p38 and p63 be also observe in platelet stimulate by the tyrosine kinase -linked receptor agonist collagen and by the g protein -coupled receptor agonist thrombin , although phosphorylation of slp-76 be only observe in collagen -stimulated platelet .
p38 and p63 may provide a docking site for grb2 , thereby link grb2 sh3-binding protein sos1 , slp-76 , and p120 to downstream signalling event .
cell-specific bifunctional role of jun oncogene family member on glucocorticoid receptor -dependent transcription .
interaction between protein kinase c ( pkc ) - and glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) -mediated signaling be suggest by the ability of the pkc activating phorbol ester 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) to inhibit gr -dependent transcription of the mouse mammary tumor virus ( mmtv ) long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
here we report that this interference be cell specific , a tpa augment dexamethasone -induced transcriptional activation of the mmtv ltr in several t cell line but be inhibitory in nih-3t3 fibroblast .
tpa-gr synergism be determine to have occur at the gr -responsive element ( gre ) level by functional analysis of deletion mutant or synthetic gre oligonucleotides drive chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase expression .
synergism require an intact gr dna-binding domain , whereas amino- or carboxyl- terminal domain be dispensable .
the effect be abrogate by the pkc inhibitor staurosporine , suggest a role for pkc .
increase c-jun , jun-b , and jun-d expression above basal level and increase transcriptional activity of ap-1/tpa responsive element fuse to chloramphenicol acetyl-transferase vector be observe in t cell treat with tpa alone or in combination with dexamethasone .
the ability of jun protein to cooperate with gr in t cell have be investigate after transfection of c-jun , jun-b , or jun-d expression vector , which augment gr -dependent transcription from either mmtv ltr or gre .
conversely , c-jun and jun-b transfection blunt gr -dependent transcription in hela cell .
the presence of c-fos have a negative influence on gr function and correlate with the cell-specific synergistic or antagonistic activity of jun with respect to gr ; high basal expression of c-fos as well a ap-1 dna binding and transcriptional activity be observe in hela cell , but not in t cell .
furthermore overexpression of exogenous c-fos have an inhibitory effect on gr -dependent transcription from gre in t cell .
we propose that jun play a bifunctional role on gr -dependent transcriptional activation of gre , select either synergistic or antagonistic activity depend on the cell-specific microenvironment .
in this regard , intracellular level of c-fos appear to be influential .
the b29 ( immunoglobulin beta-chain ) gene be a genetic target for early b-cell factor .
early b-cell factor ( ebf ) be a transcription factor suggest a essential for early b-lymphocyte development by finding in mouse where the cod gene have be inactivate by homologous disruption .
this make the identification of genetic target for this transcription factor pertinent for the understanding of early b-cell development .
the lack of b29 transcript , cod for the beta subunit of the b-cell receptor complex , in pro-b cell from ebf -deficient mouse suggest that b29 might be a genetic target for ebf .
we here present data suggest that ebf interact with three independent site within the mouse b29 promoter .
furthermore , ectopic expression of ebf in hela cell activate a b29 promoter -controlled reporter construct 13-fold and induce a low level of expression from the endogenous b29 gene .
finally , mutation in the ebf binding site diminish b29 promoter activity in pre-b cell while the same mutation do not have a striking an effect on the promoter function in b-cell line of late differentiation stage .
these data suggest that the b29 gene be a genetic target for ebf in early b-cell development .
nuclear factor-kappa b potently up-regulates the promoter activity of rantes , a chemokine that block hiv infection .
the complex network of cytokine that be involve in inflammatory and immunoregulatory response play a critical role in the pathogenesis of hiv infection .
rantes ( regulate upon activation , normal t cell express and secrete ) be a cytokine that belong to the beta-chemokine family ; it be chemoattractant for cd4+/cd45ro t cell , it be produce by various cell type include cd8+ and cd4+ t cell as well a monocytes/macrophages , and have recently be show to suppress replication of macrophage-tropic strain of hiv in cd4+ t cell .
to investigate the molecular mechanism of rantes expression , the rantes promoter region be analyze by transient expression and gel-mobility shift assay .
we demonstrate that : 1 ) rantes promoter activity be up-regulated by pma plus ionomycin , coexpression of the p65 subunit of nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b , the proinflammatory cytokine tnf-alpha and il-1 beta , and the cd28 costimulatory pathway ; 2 ) the rantes promoter region contain four nf-kappa b binding site at position -30 , -44 , -213 , and -579 relative to the transcription start site ; 3 ) one site ( -213 ) be an nf-at ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) binding site that also have weak affinity to nf-kappa b , and the most distal site ( -579 ) also serve a a cd28-responsive element ; and 4 ) mutation on any of those nf-kappa b site or coexpression of i kappa b alpha ( cytoplasmic inhibitor of nf-kappa b ) markedly reduce the promoter activity .
thus , nf-kappa b , a potent transcriptional activator of hiv expression , be also involve in the expression of rantes , a chemokine that block infection by macrophage-tropic strain of hiv .
abnormal regulation of the il-2 promoter in lpr cd4-cd8-_t lymphocyte result in constitutive expression of a novel nuclear factor of activate t cell -binding factor .
the inert quality of mrl-ipr/ipr ( ipr ) peripheral cd4-cd8- ( cd4-8- ) t cell manifest primarily a an inability to proliferate or produce il-2 in response to tcr or mitogenic stimulation .
yet these same cell do initiate early tcr -mediated signaling event , such a generation of inositol phosphate and increase intracellular calcium .
they also display constitutively high level of p59fyn and cd3 zeta tyrosine phosphorylation .
the generation of second messenger in t cell normally lead to downstream signaling that result in transcriptional activation of the il-2 gene .
we , therefore , compare the activation state of the il-2 gene promoter region in freshly isolate and stimulate ipr cd4-8- t cell with that of normal t lymphocyte .
level of the octamer , nf-kappa b ( p50-p65 heterodimer ) , and ap-1 transcriptional factor be constitutively elevate in freshly isolate ipr cd4-8- t cell , consistent with the activate phenotype of these cell .
upon stimulation with mitogen , formation of the transactivating complex , nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) , occur with normal kinetics in ipr cd4-8- t cell .
yet , the level of the activate nf-at complex never reach those observe in similarly stimulate normal t cell .
furthermore , nuclear extract from ipr cd4-8- t cell display high level of a novel specific binding activity at the nf-at site , which be present at much low level in freshly isolate normal t lymphocyte .
upon mitogenic stimulation , the binding activity of the novel nf-at -binding factor be rapidly down-regulated in normal t cell , but persist at high level in ipr cd4-8- t cell .
these two abnormality at the nf-at site provide a potential mechanism to account for the defect in il-2 production from ipr cd4-8- t cell .
functional myc-max heterodimer be require for activation-induced apoptosis in t cell hybridoma .
t cell hybridoma respond to activation signal by undergo apoptotic cell death , and this be likely to represent comparable event related to tolerance induction in immature and mature t cell in vivo .
previous study use antisense oligonucleotides implicate the c-myc protein in the phenomenon of activation-induced apoptosis .
this role for c-myc in apoptosis be now confirm in study use a dominant negative form of it heterodimeric binding partner , max , which we show here inhibit activation-induced apoptosis .
far , coexpression of a reciprocally mutant myc protein capable of form functional heterodimers with the mutant max can compensate for the dominant negative activity and restore activation-induced apoptosis .
these result imply that myc promote activation-induced apoptosis by obligatory heterodimerization with max , and therefore , by regulate gene transcription .
concomitant downregulation of igh 3' enhancer activity and c-myc expression in a plasmacytoma x fibroblast environment : implication for dysregulation of translocate c-myc .
regulation of immunoglobulin heavy chain ( igh ) gene expression be control by a b cell-specific promoter , intronic enhancer and additional b cell-specific enhancer element identify recently in the 3' end of the igh locus .
one of the latter element , the igh 3' enhancer , be of particular interest : ( 1 ) it be b cell-specific and active only in late b cell development ; ( 2 ) in rodent plasmacytoma and in some human burkitt 's lymphoma it be part of a locus control region ( lcr ) that be involve in deregulation of the c-myc oncogene a a result of translocation into the igh locus ; and ( 3 ) it have be implicate in the mechanism that control ig gene class switch recombination .
we have use a somatic cell hybridization approach to genetically analyse regulation of the activity of the igh 3' enhancer .
when mouse mpc11 plasmacytoma cell , in which the igh 3' enhancer be active , be fuse with fibroblast , ig expression be extinguish at the level of transcription .
here we show that in a mpc11 plasmacytoma x fibroblast environment , the igh 3' enhancer be transcriptionally inactive .
furthermore , we demonstrate that binding of several b cell-specific transcription factor , essential for igh 3' enhancer activity , be lack , which may explain 3' enhancer inactivity , although the binding of repressor can not be exclude .
moreover , the high expression level of c-myc , characteristic of the parental mpc11 cell carry the t(12;15) translocation , be down-regulated in the hybrid to that in unfused fibroblast .
therefore , inactivation of the igh 3' enhancer be a multifactorial process affect several transcription factor that control the cell-specific and developmental activity of the enhancer .
prostaglandin e2 induction of binding activity to cre and ap-2 element in human t lymphocyte .
prostaglandin of the e series be immunomodulatory agent which exert inhibitory as well a stimulatory effect on a variety of immune response .
since it be know that pge2 be able to increase camp level , we investigate whether it can affect gene expression through the activation of the transcription factor which bind enhancer element in the promoter region of camp -regulated gene .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , we demonstrate that a short treatment of human t lymphocyte with pge2 induce specific binding activity to cre and ap-2 , but not ap-1 , dna element .
since the okadaic acid , a potent protein phosphatase inhibitor , prolong the induction of the binding activity , phosphorylation event be likely to occur .
this activity seem to be due to increase camp level because forskolin and ibmx mimic the effect of pge2 .
more interestingly , transfection experiment with cre -cat plasmide show that pge2 activate the transcription of a cre -containing promoter .
these data support the positive role for pge2 on some immune function .
hiv-1 tat potentiate tnf -induced nf-kappa b activation and cytotoxicity by alter the cellular redox state .
this study demonstrate that human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) tat protein amplify the activity of tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , a cytokine that stimulate hiv-1 replication through activation of nf-kappa b .
in hela cell stably transfected with the hiv-1 tat gene ( hela-tat cell ) , expression of the tat protein enhance both tnf -induced activation of nf-kappa b and tnf -mediated cytotoxicity .
a similar potentiation of tnf effect be observe in jurkat t cell and hela cell treat with soluble tat protein .
tnf -mediated activation of nf-kappa b and cytotoxicity involve the intracellular formation of reactive oxygen intermediate .
therefore , tat -mediated effect on the cellular redox state be analyze .
in both t cell and hela cell hiv-1 tat suppress the expression of mn-dependent superoxide dismutase ( mn-sod ) , a mitochondrial enzyme that be part of the cellular defense system against oxidative stress .
thus , mn-sod rna protein level and activity be markedly reduce in the presence of tat .
decrease mn-sod expression be associate with decrease level of glutathione and a low ratio of reduce : oxidize glutathione .
a truncate tat protein ( tat1-72 ) , know to transactivate the hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) , no longer affect mn-sod expression , the cellular redox state or tnf -mediated cytotoxicity .
thus , our experiment demonstrate that the c-terminal region of hiv-1 tat be require to suppress mn-sod expression and to induce pro-oxidative condition reflect by a drop in reduce glutathione ( gsh ) and the gsh : oxidize gsh ( gssg ) ratio .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
the murine bcl6 gene be induce in activate lymphocyte a an immediate early gene .
the chromosomal translocation involve 3q27 be often detect in human b-cell lymphoma , especially diffuse lymphoma with a large-cell component .
the bcl6 gene have be isolate from the chromosomal breakpoint in these lymphoma .
here we clone the murine bcl6 ( mbcl6 ) cdna from the muscle cdna library use the human bcl6 ( hbcl6 ) cdna a a probe .
the predict amino acid sequence be 95 % identical to that of hbcl6 .
it contain six repeat of the kruppel-like zinc-finger motif that be completely identical to those of hbcl6 , indicate that the bcl6 gene be well conserve between human and mouse .
expression of the mbcl6 gene be ubiquitously detect in adult mouse tissue include lymphatic organ .
furthermore , it be induce in lymphocyte activate with phorbol ester and ca2+ ionophore within 30 min after stimulation .
this induction be not inhibit by treatment of the cell with a protein synthesis inhibitor , cycloheximide .
these result suggest that bcl6 play a role in activate lymphocyte a an immediate early gene .
characterization and purification of a protein kinase c substrate in human b cell .
identification a lymphocyte-specific protein 1 ( lsp1 ) .
incubation of b-chronic lymphocytic leukemia ( b-cll ) cell with phorbol ester result in the phosphorylation of two major pkc substrate , marcks ( myristoylated , alanine-rich c kinase substrate ) and mrp ( marcks -related protein ) , and of a third protein , with an apparent m.w. of 60,000 that be the most prominent protein kinase c substrate in these cell .
p60 phosphorylation be time and pma dose dependent , and be induce by cell-permeable diacylglycerol , but not by inactive phorbol ester .
two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis of the protein phosphorylation pattern from the b cell line ce demonstrate the identity between the p60 protein express in this cell line and that express in b-cll cell .
p60 be purify from ce cell and peptide microsequencing of this protein reveal that it be lymphocyte-specific protein 1 ( lsp1 ) , that be here characterize a the most prominent protein kinase c substrate in b cell .
cellular and molecular mechanism of il-5 synthesis in atopic disease : a study with allergen-specific human helper t cell .
background : cytokine produce by helper t cell be intimately involve in chronic allergic disease associate with eosinophilic inflammation .
objective : we investigate the production of il-5 , a potent growth factor and chemotactic factor for eosinophil , by cd4+ t lymphocyte in patient with asthma .
method : allergen-specific t cell clone and t cell hybridoma be establish from the peripheral blood lymphocyte of patient with asthma , and the response to various stimulus be determine .
result : after nonspecific stimulation , il-5 production by cd4+ t cell from both atopic and nonatopic subject with asthma be significantly enhance compare with that by cell from healthy control .
peripheral blood mononuclear cell from atopic asthma patient both proliferate and produce il-5 after incubation with mite allergen , suggest that mite-specific helper t cell be involve in the eosinophilic inflammation of atopic asthma .
a human il-5 promoter/enhancer luciferase gene construct transfected into il-5 -producing t cell clone be clearly transcribe after stimulation , indicate that the 515 base pair il-5 gene segment upstream of the cod region be sufficient to respond to activate signal in human helper t cell .
the same gene segment be not transcribe in il-5 -nonproducing t cell clone , suggest that human t cell il-5 synthesis be regulate at the transcriptional level .
experiment with t cell hybridoma confirm these finding and suggest that a unique transcription factor may be essential for human il-5 gene transcription .
conclusion : enhance il-5 production by helper t cell seem to cause the eosinophilic inflammation of both atopic and nonatopic asthma .
elucidation of il-5 -specific regulatory mechanism may facilitate the development of novel treatment for allergic disease associate with eosinophilic inflammation .
aspirin inhibit nuclear factor-kappa b mobilization and monocyte adhesion in stimulate human endothelial cell .
background : the induction of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 ) and e-selectin by tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf ) be mediate by mobilization of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) .
since salicylate have be report to inhibit nf-kappa b activation by prevent the degradation of it inhibitor i kappa b , we study a potential inhibition of this pathway by acetylsalicylate ( aspirin ) in human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvecs ) .
method and result : gel-shift analysis demonstrate dose-dependent inhibition of tnf -induced nf-kappa b mobilization by aspirin at concentration range from 1 to 10 mmol/l .
induction of vcam-1 and e-selectin surface expression by tnf be dose-dependently reduce by aspirin over the same range , while induction of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) be hardly affect .
aspirin appear to prevent vcam-1 transcription , since it dose-dependently inhibit induction of vcam-1 mrna by tnf .
a a functional consequence , adhesion of u937 monocyte to tnf -stimulated huvecs be markedly reduce by aspirin due to suppression of vcam-1 and e-selectin upregulation .
these effect of aspirin be not related to the inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity , since indomethacin be ineffective .
conclusion : our data suggest that aspirin inhibit nf-kappa b mobilization , induction of vcam-1 and e-selectin , and subsequent monocyte adhesion in endothelial cell stimulate by tnf , thereby provide an additional mechanism for therapeutic effect of aspirin .
anti-ehrlichia chaffeensis antibody complexed with e. chaffeensis induce potent proinflammatory cytokine mrna expression in human monocyte through sustained reduction of ikappab-alpha and activation of nf-kappab .
ehrlichia chaffeensis be an obligatory intracellular bacterium that infect monocyte and macrophage and be the etiologic agent of human ehrlichiosis in the united state .
our previous study show that the exposure of human monocyte to e. chaffeensis induce the expression of interleukin-1beta ( il-1beta ) , il-8 , and il-10 gene in vitro but not the expression of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) and il-6 mrna .
in this study , the effect of anti- e. chaffeensis antibody complexed with e. chaffeensis on the expression of major proinflammatory cytokine in human monocyte be examine .
human monocytic cell line thp-1 be treat with e. chaffeensis which have be preincubated with human anti- e. chaffeensis serum for 2 h , and the level of cytokine mrna be evaluate by competitive reverse transcription-pcr .
anti- e. chaffeensis antibody complexed with e. chaffeensis significantly enhance mrna expression of il-1beta in thp-1 cell .
the expression of tnf-alpha and il-6 mrna be also induce .
the level of secrete il-1beta , tnf-alpha , and il-6 during 24 h of stimulation be comparable to those induce by escherichia coli lipopolysaccharide at 1 microg/ml .
fab fragment of anti- e. chaffeensis immunoglobulin g complexed with e. chaffeensis do not induce any of these three cytokine , indicate that ehrlichial binding be require for il-1beta mrna expression and that binding of the immune complex to the fc gamma receptor be require for tnf-alpha and il-6 mrna expression and enhance il-1beta mrna expression .
furthermore , prolonged degradation of ikappab-alpha and activation of nf-kappab be demonstrate in thp-1 cell expose to anti- e. chaffeensis serum and e. chaffeensis .
this result imply that development of anti- e. chaffeensis antibody in patient can result in the production of major proinflammatory cytokine , which may play an important role in the pathophysiology of ehrlichiosis and immune response to it .
constitutive association of jak1 and stat5 in pro-b cell be dissolve by interleukin-4 -induced tyrosine phosphorylation of both protein .
the bipartite human interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) receptor be functionally express in murine pro-b cell and activate by human il-4 to evoke intracellular signaling .
mutual association of signal transducing protein within the receptor complex be then study in dependence of ligand stimulation .
besides ligand-induced receptor heterodimerization and contact of the two il-4 receptor subunit alpha and gamma with janus kinase jak1 and jak3 a prominent constitutive binding between jak1 and signal transducer and activator of transcription stat5 be detect .
since both these protein become phosphorylated in response to il-4 receptor stimulation , the influence of tyrosine phosphorylation on their mutual contact be analyze .
association of jak1 and stat5 be find to occur exclusively between unphosphorylated protein .
transcriptional activation of human zeta 2 globin promoter by the alpha globin regulatory element ( hs-40 ) : functional role of specific nuclear factor-dna complex .
we study the functional interaction between human embryonic zeta 2 globin promoter and the alpha globin regulatory element ( hs-40 ) located 40 kb upstream of the zeta 2 globin gene .
it be show by transient expression assay that hs-40 behave a an authentic enhancer for high-level zeta 2 globin promoter activity in k562 cell , an erythroid cell line of embryonic and/or fetal origin .
although sequence located between -559 and -88 of the zeta 2 globin gene be dispensable for it expression on enhancerless plasmid , they be require for the hs-40 enhancer -mediated activity of the zeta 2 globin promoter .
site-directed mutagenesis demonstrate that this hs-40 enhancer- zeta 2 globin promoter interaction be mediate by the two gata-1 factor binding motif located at -230 and -104 , respectively .
the functional domain of hs-40 be also map .
bal 31 deletion map data suggest that one gata-1 motif , one gt motif , and two nf-e2/ap1 motif together form the functional core of hs-40 in the erythroid-specific activation of the zeta 2 globin promoter .
site-directed mutagenesis far demonstrate that the enhancer function of one of the two nf-e2/ap1 motif of hs-40 be mediate through it binding to nf-e2 but not ap1 transcription factor .
finally , we do genomic footprinting of the hs-40 enhancer region in k562 cell , adult nucleated erythroblast , and different nonerythroid cell .
all sequence motif within the functional core of hs-40 , a map by transient expression analysis , appear to bind a nuclear factor ( s ) in live k562 cell but not in nonerythroid cell .
on the other hand , only one of the apparently nonfunctional sequence motif be bind with factor in vivo .
in comparison to k562 , nucleated erythroblast from adult human bone marrow exhibit a similar but nonidentical pattern of nuclear factor binding in vivo at the hs-40 region .
these data suggest that transcriptional activation of human embryonic zeta 2 globin gene and the fetal/adult alpha globin gene be mediate by erythroid cell-specific and developmental stage-specific nuclear factor-dna complex which form at the enhancer ( hs-40 ) and the globin promoter .
t cell reactivity to sjogren 's syndrome related antigen la ( ssb ) .
objective .
many patient with primary sjogren 's syndrome ( s ) make high titer igg autoantibody to the la ( ssb ) antigen , suggest antigen specific t cell-b cell interaction .
t cell response to some nuclear antigen , particularly u1rnp , have be detect in patient with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and in healthy subject .
we investigate t cell reactivity to the autoantigen ssb in patient with s and healthy control .
method .
use the [3h]thymidine proliferation assay , we determine reactivity to purify recombinant ssb ( rssb ) in 20 patient with s and 19 control .
specificity be determine use tetanus toxoid , endotoxin , and 3 other autoantigens ( pbc.m2 , sc170 , and gad ) .
precursor frequency be calculate by limit dilution analysis .
hla class ii dependency be investigate use anti-class ii monoclonal antibody .
hla-dr typing be by polymerase chain reaction and sequence specific oligonucleotide typing .
result .
six of 20 patient with s and 10/19 control proliferate to la ( rssb ) .
precursor frequency of anti-ssb t cell be 1:77,040 and 1:115,000 in 2 healthy subject and 1:230,250 and 1:103,034 in two patient with s .
anti- hla-dr abrogate proliferation to ssb and tetanus toxoid .
thirteen of 15 patient with s and 4/17 control be hla-dr3 positive , with no apparent association of hla-dr3 with ssb reactivity in control .
conclusion .
anti- la(ssb) specific t cell occur in a significant proportion of control and in some patient with s .
the function of ssb t cell in control remain to be define .
they may represent immunoregulatory cell , and further analysis of these cell , and a comparison to those find in patient with s , may elucidate normal immunoregulation and the derangement that lead to sjogren 's syndrome .
high affinity aldosterone bind to plasma membrane rich fraction from mononuclear leukocyte : be there a membrane receptor for mineralocorticoid ?
in vitro effect of aldosterone on the intracellular concentration of sodium , potassium and calcium , cell volume and the sodium -proton-antiport have be describe in intact human mononuclear leukocyte ( hml ) .
in the present paper , the binding of a [125i]-labeled aldosterone derivative to plasma membrane rich fraction of hml be study .
high affinity binding of the radioligand with an apparent kd of approximately 0.1 nm be find .
aldosterone displace the tracer at a similar kd .
both canrenone and cortisol be inactive a ligand up to concentration of 0.1 microm .
the finding be the first to demonstrate membrane binding site with a high affinity for aldosterone , but not for cortisol .
these data be perfectly compatible with major property of steroidal effect on the sodium-proton-antiport in hml and thus very likely represent membrane receptor for aldosterone .
the effect of toremifene therapy on serum immunoglobulin level in breast cancer .
estrogen and anti-estrogens enhance the number of immunoglobulin ( ig ) -secreting cell in pokeweed mitogen ( pwm ) -stimulated lymphocyte culture .
lymphocyte from patient who have receive anti-estrogen therapy show similar enhancement of ig-secreting cell after pwm stimulation .
in this study the effect of anti-estrogen ( toremifene ) therapy on serum immunoglobulin ( iga , igm , igg ) level in breast cancer patient be investigate .
serum ig level be follow up to two year after or during the therapy .
an unexpected finding be that the ig level decrease during the follow-up period .
this decrease be see in patient who respond to the therapy as well a in those who do not .
a human homologue of the drosophila toll protein signal activation of adaptive immunity [ see comment ]
induction of the adaptive immune response depend on the expression of co-stimulatory molecule and cytokine by antigen-presenting cell .
the mechanism that control the initial induction of these signal upon infection be poorly understand .
it have be propose that their expression be control by the non-clonal , or innate , component of immunity that precede in evolution the development of an adaptive immune system in vertebrate .
we report here the cloning and characterization of a human homologue of the drosophila toll protein ( toll ) which have be show to induce the innate immune response in adult drosophila .
like drosophila toll , human toll be a type i transmembrane protein with an extracellular domain consist of a leucine-rich repeat ( lrr ) domain , and a cytoplasmic domain homologous to the cytoplasmic domain of the human interleukin ( il ) -1 receptor .
both drosophila toll and the il-1 receptor be know to signal through the nf-kappab pathway .
we show that a constitutively active mutant of human toll transfected into human cell line can induce the activation of nf-kappab and the expression of nf-kappab -controlled gene for the inflammatory cytokine il-1 , il-6 and il-8 , as well a the expression of the co-stimulatory molecule b7.1 , which be require for the activation of naive t cell .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor stimulate jak2 signaling pathway and rapidly activate p93fes , stat1 p91 , and stat3 p92 in polymorphonuclear leukocyte .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) , support proliferation , differentiation , and functional activation of hemopoietic cell by it interaction with a heterodimeric receptor .
although gm-csf receptor be devoid of tyrosine kinase enzymatic activity , gm-csf -induced peripheral blood polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) functional activation be mediate by the phosphorylation of a large number of intracellular signaling molecule .
we have previously show that jak2 become tyrosine -phosphorylated in response to gm-csf in pmn .
in the present study we demonstrate that also the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) family member stat1 p91 and stat3 p92 and the product of the c-fps/fes protooncogene become tyrosine -phosphorylated upon gm-csf stimulation and physically associate with both gm-csf receptor beta common subunit and jak2 .
moreover gm-csf be able to induce jak2 and p93fes catalytic activity .
we also demonstrate that the association of the gm-csf receptor beta common subunit with jak2 be ligand-dependent .
finally we demonstrate that gm-csf induce a dna-binding complex that contain both p91 and p92 .
these result identify a new signal transduction pathway activate by gm-csf and provide a mechanism for rapid activation of gene expression in gm-csf -stimulated pmn .
physical and functional interaction between the human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 tax1 protein and the ccaat binding protein nf-y .
tax1 , a potent activator of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) transcription , have be show to modulate expression of many cellular gene .
tax1 do not bind dna directly but regulate transcription through protein-protein interaction with sequence-specific transcription factor .
use the yeast two-hybrid system to screen for protein which interact with tax1 , we isolate the b subunit of the ccaat binding protein nf-y from a hela cdna library .
the interaction of tax1 with nf-yb be specific in that nf-yb do not interact with a variety of other transcription factor , include human immunodeficiency virus tat , human papillomavirus e6 , and bicoid , or with the m7 ( amino acid 29cp-as ) tax1 mutant .
however , nf-yb do interact with the c-terminal tax1 mutant m22 ( 130tl-as ) and m47 ( 319ll-rs ) .
we also show that in vitro-translated nf-yb specifically bind to a glutathione s-transferase- tax1 fusion protein .
far , tax1 coimmunoprecipitated with nf-y from nuclear extract of htlv-1-transformed cell , provide evidence for in vivo interaction of tax1 and nf-yb .
we far demonstrate that tax1 specifically activate the nf-y -responsive dqbeta promoter , as well a a minimal promoter which contain only the y-box element .
in addition , mutation of the y-box element alone abrogate tax1 -mediated activation .
take together , these data indicate that tax1 interact with nf-y through the b subunit and that this interaction result in activation of the major histocompatibility complex class ii promoter .
through activation of this and other nf-y driven promoter , the tax1 -nf-y interaction may play a critical role in cause cellular transformation and htlv-1 pathogenesis .
differential responsiveness of the il-5 and il-4 gene to transcription factor gata-3 .
the cytokine il-4 and il-5 be often coordinately produce by th2 cell a in asthma .
however , it be unclear whether similar molecular mechanism underlie transcription of the two gene .
we have previously show that the transcription factor gata-3 be express in th2 but not th1 cell and be crucial for activation of the il-5 promoter by different stimulus .
in a different study , gata-3 be show to be sufficient for the expression of il-4 and other th2 cytokine gene .
here , we show that ectopic expression of gata-3 be sufficient to drive il-5 but not il-4 gene expression .
also , in th2 cell , antisense gata-3 rna inhibit il-5 but not il-4 promoter activation .
the induction of il-5 gene expression by gata-3 involve high affinity binding of gata-3 to an inverted gata repeat in the il-5 promoter .
extinction of immunoglobulin gene expression in b cell upon fusion with hela cell be precede by rapid nuclear depletion of essential transcription factor and be accompany by widespread inactivation of gene express in a b cell-specific manner .
when immunoglobulin ( ig ) expressing b cell be fuse with non-b cell , ig expression be rapidly suppress at the level of transcription , a phenomenon term extinction .
here we demonstrate that fusion of hela cell with either diploid or tetraploid b cell ( daudi ) result in widespread extinction of several other b cell-encoded gene that be express in a b cell-specific manner .
in contrast , expression of b cell-expressed gene that be not dependent on cell-specific control be unaffected .
we show that the molecular mechanism ( s ) underlie ig gene extinction can be explain , at least in part , by a lack of transcription factor that be essential for ig gene transcription .
these transcription factor be either not produce due to block of transcription of their respective gene ( oct-2 , obf-1 , pu.1 ) , or be render inactive posttranslationally ( nf-kappa b , e47 ) .
by isolate daudi x hela heterokaryons a few hour after fusion , we have study the initial fate of two b cell-specific transcription factor involve in ig gene transcription , oct-2 and nf-kappa b .
this report provide the first demonstration that upon fusion with hela cell , the nuclear content of b cell-expressed transcription factor be deplete within a few hour with kinetics that be a fast or fast than that of ig gene extinction .
thus , the extinguishing mechanism be effective very early after fusion .
we suggest that extinction of ig gene be part of a global mechanism that suppress the differentiation program foreign to the hela phenotype .
reactivity of lymphocyte to a progesterone receptor-specific monoclonal antibody .
in this study we present evidence for reactivity of pregnancy lymphocyte , but not nonpregnancy lymphocyte , with the progesterone receptor-specific monoclonal antibody mpri .
use an avidin -biotin peroxidase detection system , we find a nuclear staining in 14.6 +/- 3.7 % ( mean +/- sem , n = 27 ) of pregnancy lymphocyte , while only 0.47 +/- 0.33 % ( mean +/- sem , n = 15 ) of nonpregnancy lymphocyte react with the antibody .
to characterize the receptor-bearing subset , cd8+ and cd4+ cell be deplete by complement-dependent lysis .
depletion of cd8+ cell be accompany by 62 +/- 18 % loss of progesterone receptor -bearing cell , while depletion of cd4+ cell result in a twofold increase in the number of positively stain lymphocyte .
in nonpregnancy lymphocyte a 3-day pha treatment , as well a allogeneic stimulation , result in a significant increase in the number of receptor-containing cell .
these result suggest that pregnancy , but not nonpregnancy , lymphocyte contain progesterone binding structure , and that these be inducible by mitogenic or alloantigenic stimulus .
activation and expression of the nuclear factor of activate t cell , nfatp and nfatc , in human natural killer cell : regulation upon cd16 ligand binding .
the putative factor that couple the signal transduction from surface receptor to the activation of cytokine synthesis in natural killer ( nk ) cell have not be elucidate .
we report here that the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfatp ) , a cyclosporin a ( csa ) -sensitive factor that regulate the transcription of several cytokine , mediate cd16 -induced activation of cytokine gene in human nk cell .
cd16 ( fc gamma riiia ) -induced expression of cytokine mrna in nk cell occur via a csa -sensitive and ca(2+)-dependent mechanism .
stimulation of nk cell with cd16 ligand induce nfat -like dna binding activity in the nuclear extract from these cell , a detect in electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
this occur with fast kinetics after stimulation , via a csa -sensitive and ca(2+)-dependent mechanism that do not require de novo protein synthesis .
nk cell nfat be present in the cytosol of nonstimulated cell , migrate to the nucleus upon stimulation , and can associate with ap-1 .
two distinct molecule , nfatp and nfatc , have be report to mediate nfat activity .
the result of supershift assay use nfatp- and nfatc- specific antibody indicate that nk cell activation early after cd16 ligand binding involve primarily , if not exclusively , nfatp , and western blot analysis show that this have the same electrophoretic mobility ( approximately 120 kd ) a that of t lymphocyte .
nk cell do not express nfatc constitutively , but nfatc mrna accumulation be induce in these cell within 2 h of stimulation with cd16 ligand .
however , supershift assay use the available mab recognize the t cell nfatc reveal no detectable nfatc protein in nuclear and cytoplasmic extract from cd16- or phorbol ester -stimulated cell at any time test , up to 4 h .
these result provide the first direct evidence that both csa -sensitive transcription factor , nfatp and nfatc , be express in human nk cell , and that their activation and/or expression can be regulate in primary cell by a single stimulus , that , in the case of cd16 in nk cell , result in early activation of nfatp and subsequently induce expression of nfatc mrna .
transcription factor nf-kappab regulation of renal fibrosis during ureteral obstruction .
irrespective of the etiology , many kidney disease result in inflammation and fibrosis of the tubulointerstitium , with the subsequent loss of renal function .
to initiate any disease process or for any disease process to progress , there must be change in the transcription of gene within the affect tissue .
the nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappab ) family of transcription factor regulate gene involve in inflammation , cell proliferation , and cell differentiation .
this review discuss the nf-kappab transcription factor family in general and the association of nf-kappab activation with cellular/molecular event of renal inflammation and fibrosis
oxidoreductive regulation of nuclear factor kappa b .
involvement of a cellular reducing catalyst thioredoxin .
we have investigate an oxidoreductive regulatory pathway for the dna binding activity of a pleiotropic cellular transcription factor , nuclear factor kappa b ( nf kappa b ) , have be investigate by use nf kappa b prepare from the nucleus and the cytosol of the primary human t lymphocyte .
we show that a cellular reducing catalyst thioredoxin ( trx ) play a major role in activation of the dna binding of nf kappa b in vitro and stimulation of transcription from the nf kappa b -dependent gene expression .
we demonstrate evidence suggest that redox regulation of nf kappa b by trx might be exert at a step after dissociation of the inhibitory molecule i kappa b , a cytosolic-anchoring protein for nf kappa b .
to examine the effect of trx in intact cell , we perform transient assay with a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -expressing plasmid under the control of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) long terminal repeat and an effector plasmid express human trx .
the promoter activity from hiv long terminal repeat be greatly augment by co-transfecting the trx-expressing plasmid , whose effect be dependent on the nf kappa b -binding site .
these finding have suggest that cysteine residue ( s ) of nf kappa b might be involve in the dna-recognition by nf kappa b and that the redox control mechanism mediate by trx might have a regulatory role in the nf kappa b -mediated gene expression .
these result may also provide a clue to understanding of the molecular process of aid pathogenesis and it possible biochemical intervention .
the epstein-barr virus nuclear antigen 2 interact with an ebna2 responsive cis-element of the terminal protein 1 gene promoter .
the epstein-barr virus protein ebna2 act a a transcriptional activator of cellular and viral gene and play a crucial role in the immortalization of human primary b-cells by ebv .
we have show previously that ebna2 transactivates the promoter of the latent membrane antigen lmp , tp1 and tp2 .
the promoter of the tp1 gene be choose a a model system to study the molecular mechanism of ebna2 mediated transactivation .
to identify an ebna2 dependent cis-acting element , various tp1 promoter-reporter gene construct be transfected in the absence and presence of an ebna2 expression vector into the established b-cell line bl41-p3hr1 .
we be able to delineate an 81 bp ebna2 responsive region between -258 and -177 relative to the tp1 rna start site .
the element work in either orientation and could mediate ebna2 dependent transactivation on a heterologous promoter .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay reveal three specific protein-dna complex form with sequence of the ebna2 responsive element .
two of these be not cell type specific , but the third be detect only in ebna2 positive cell extract .
gel-shift analysis in the presence of ebna2 specific monoclonal antibody reveal that ebna2 be a component of the third complex .
thus , these experiment demonstrate that ebna2 interact with an ebna2 responsive cis-element of the tp1 promoter
identification of a physical interaction between calcineurin and nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfatp ) .
in t lymphocyte , the calcium/calmodulin-dependent serine/threonine phosphatase , calcineurin , play a pivotal role in transduce membrane-associated signal to the nucleus .
one of the putative target of calcineurin be the pre-existing , cytosolic component of the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfatp ; also refer to a nfat1 ) , which be one of several transcription factor require for the expression of interleukin 2 .
inhibition of calcineurin by the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin a and fk506 prevent dephosphorylation of nfatp and it translocation to the nucleus .
however , a physical interaction between calcineurin and nfatp have not be demonstrate .
here we demonstrate the binding of nfatp from lysates of t cell to immobilize calcineurin .
stimulation of t cell with calcium ionophore induce a shift in the molecular weight of nfatp that be due to it dephosphorylation .
this dephosphorylation be inhibit by treatment of t cell with cyclosporin a or fk506 prior to stimulation .
of note , both the phosphorylated and the dephosphorylated form of nfatp bind to calcineurin .
furthermore , the binding of both form of nfatp to calcineurin be inhibit by pretreatment of calcineurin with a complex of fk506 and it ligand fkbp12 .
take together these data strongly suggest a direct interaction of calcineurin with nfatp and that this interaction do not depend upon the phosphorylation site of nfatp affect by activation .
human cd4 lymphocyte specifically recognize a peptide represent the fusion region of the hybrid protein pml/rar alpha present in acute promyelocytic leukemia cell .
fusion protein present in leukemic cell frequently contain a new amino acid at the fusion point .
we test whether a peptide ( bcr1/25 ) encompass the fusion region of the hybrid molecule pml/rar alpha , which be selectively express by acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) cell , can be recognize by human t lymphocyte in vitro .
cd4+ lymphocyte , at both polyclonal and clonal level , recognize peptide bcr1/25 in an hla-dr -- restricted fashion on presentation by autologous antigen-presenting cell ( apc ) or by apc express the hla-dr11 restricting molecule .
control peptide correspond to the normal pml and rar alpha protein be not recognize .
one clone ( deg5 ) also exert a high and specific cytotoxicity against autologous cell pulse with bcr1/25 .
the autologous de lcl contain a transduce pml/rar alpha fusion gene and express a bcr1 type of the pml/rar alpha hybrid protein induce the proliferation of de anti-bcr1/25 t cell clone .
it be conclude that the bcr1 type-pml/rar alpha fusion protein of apl contain an antigenic site , absent from the normal parent molecule and recognize by human cd4+ lymphocyte .
activation protein 1 -dependent transcriptional activation of interleukin 2 gene by ca2+ /calmodulin kinase type iv/gr .
the ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ( camk ) type iv/gr be selectively express in t lymphocyte and be activate after signal via the t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) , indicate that it mediate some of the ca(2+)-dependent transcriptional event that follow tcr engagement .
here we show that camkiv/gr induce the transcription factor activation protein 1 ( ap-1 ) alone or in synergy with t cell mitogen and with the p21ras oncoprotein .
camkiv/ gr signaling be associate with transcriptional activation of c-fos but be independent of p21ras or calcineurin .
ap-1 be an integral component of the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) transcriptional complex , which be require for interleukin 2 gene expression in t cell .
we demonstrate that camkiv/gr reconstitute the capacity of the cytosolic component of nfat to direct transcription from nfat site in non- t cell .
these result reveal a central role for camkiv/gr a a ca(2+) -regulated activator of gene transcription in t lymphocyte .
increase expression of gs(alpha) enhance activation of the adenylyl cyclase signal transduction cascade .
expression of the stimulatory g protein , g(s)alpha , can vary over a 3-fold range in human tissue and in rodent central nervous system .
in fact , the offspring of alcoholic have high level of g(s)alpha expression in certain tissue compare with the offspring of nonalcoholics .
the aim of this research be to test the hypothesis that a causal relationship exist between the level of expression of g(s)alpha and induction of the adenylyl cyclase ( ac ) cascade .
the methodology employ transient transfection of hek 293 cell with a cdna for the 52-kda form of g(s)alpha under regulation by inducible metallothionein promoter .
transfectants be expose to vary concentration ( 0-125 microm ) of zinc sulfate that produce a 3-fold range of membrane g(s)alpha expression .
the range of g(s)alpha expression produce be find to mimic a physiologically relevant spectrum of g(s)alpha expression in membrane derive from human tissue and rat brain .
it be observe that induction of g(s)alpha expression increase constitutive as well a stimulate camp accumulation .
moreover , induction of g(s)alpha expression increase event distal to the accumulation of camp include the phosphorylation of the transcription factor , camp response element binding protein and transcriptional activation of camp-dependent reporter gene .
in summary , these study show that the amount of g(s)alpha expression have a marked impact on the level of activity of the ac cascade from the membrane through to the nucleus .
it be hypothesize that individual who differ in g(s)alpha expression may also differ in the expression of certain camp -dependent gene .
characterization of peripheral blood t-lymphocytes transduce with htlv-i tax mutant with different trans-activating phenotype .
tax1 , a transcriptional trans-activator of the human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) , induce the expression of many cellular gene through interaction with at least three distinct cellular transcription factor ; creb/atf , nf-kappab , and srf .
this tax1 -induced activation of cellular gene be consider to be a critical event in t-cell transformation by htlv-i .
to elucidate the role of each tax1 -inducible transcriptional pathway in t-cell transformation , we introduce tax1 mutant with different trans-activating phenotype into peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) by retroviral vector .
analysis of these pbls reveal that activation of the nf-kappab pathway be sufficient to promote the growth response to il-2 .
however , for the clonal expansion of cd4+ t-cells , which be a characteristic result of htlv-i infection , activation of the creb/atf and srf pathway be also require .
pu.1 ( spi-1 ) and c/ebp alpha regulate expression of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor receptor alpha gene .
growth factor receptor play an important role in hematopoiesis .
in order to far understand the mechanism direct the expression of these key regulator of hematopoiesis , we initiate a study investigate the transcription factor activate the expression of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) receptor alpha gene .
here , we demonstrate that the human gm-csf receptor alpha promoter direct reporter gene activity in a tissue-specific fashion in myelomonocytic cell , which correlate with it expression pattern a analyze by reverse transcription pcr .
the gm-csf receptor alpha promoter contain an important functional site between position -53 and -41 a identify by deletion analysis of reporter construct .
we show that the myeloid and b cell transcription factor pu.1 bind specifically to this site .
furthermore , we demonstrate that a ccaat site located upstream of the pu.1 site between position -70 and -54 be involve in positive-negative regulation of the gm-csf receptor alpha promoter activity .
c/ebp alpha be the major ccaat/enhancer -binding protein ( c/ebp ) form bind to this site in nuclear extract of u937 cell .
point mutation of either the pu.1 site or the c/ebp site that abolish the binding of the respective factor result in a significant decrease of gm-csf receptor alpha promoter activity in myelomonocytic cell only .
furthermore , we demonstrate that in myeloid and b cell extract , pu.1 form a novel , specific , more slowly migrate complex ( pu-sf ) when bind the gm-csf receptor alpha promoter pu.1 site .
this be the first demonstration of a specific interaction with pu.1 on a myeloid pu.1 binding site .
the novel complex be distinct from that describe previously a bind to b cell enhancer site and can be form by addition of pu.1 to extract from certain nonmyeloid cell type which do not express pu.1 , include t cell and epithelial cell , but not from erythroid cell .
furthermore , we demonstrate that the pu-sf complex bind to pu.1 site find on a number of myeloid promoter , and it formation require an intact pu.1 site adjacent to a single-stranded region .
expression of pu.1 in nonmyeloid cell can activate the gm-csf receptor alpha promoter .
deletion of the amino-terminal region of pu.1 result in a failure to form the pu-sf complex and in a concomitant loss of transactivation , suggest that formation of the pu-sf complex be of functional importance for the activity of the gm-csf receptor alpha promoter .
finally , we demonstrate that c/ebp alpha can also active the gm-csf receptor alpha promoter in nonmyeloid cell .
( abstract truncate at 400 word )
pax-5 encode the transcription factor bsap and be express in b lymphocyte , the develop cns , and adult testis .
bsap have be identify previously a a transcription factor that be express at early , but not late , stage of b-cell differentiation .
biochemical purification and cdna cloning have now reveal that bsap belong to the family of paired domain protein .
bsap be encode by the pax-5 gene and have be highly conserve between human and mouse .
an intact paired domain be show to be both necessary and sufficient for dna binding of bsap .
bind study with several bsap recognition sequence demonstrate that the sequence specificity of bsap differ from that of the distantly related paired domain protein pax-1 .
during embryogenesis , the bsap gene be transiently express in the mesencephalon and spinal cord with a spatial and temporal expression pattern that be distinct from that of other pax gene in the develop central nervous system ( cns ) .
later , the expression of the bsap gene shift to the fetal liver where it correlate with the onset of b lymphopoiesis .
bsap expression persist in b lymphocyte and be also see in the testis of the adult mouse .
all of this evidence indicate that the transcription factor bsap may not only play an important role in b-cell differentiation but also in neural development and spermatogenesis .
characterization of the human elk-1 promoter .
potential role of a downstream intronic sequence for elk-1 gene expression in monocyte .
to characterize the human elk-1 promoter , we map the transcriptional start site and isolate elk-1 -specific genomic phage clone that contain extensive upstream and downstream sequence .
a tata-like motif be identify immediately upstream of the transcriptional start site .
functional analysis of dna fragment contain the tata element and the identification of a dnase i-hypersensitive chromatin site ( h 1 ) in close proximity to the tata box suggest that the identify tata motif be important for elk-1 transcription in vivo .
sequence upstream and downstream from the tata box be find to contribute to elk-1 promoter activity .
a second hypersensitive site ( h 2 ) be identify within the first intron in pre-monocytic cell , which express elk-1 only when differentiate to monocyte .
in a variety of other cell type , which display a constitutive elk-1 expression , h 2 do not exist , suggest that inducibility of elk-1 expression be associate with the presence of h 2 .
egr-1 and the serum response factor be find to interact specifically with the intronic sequence at +265 and +448 , respectively .
because egr-1 mrna and protein level be observe to increase significantly before induction of elk-1 expression , we propose that egr-1 be important for the regulation of elk-1 transcription in differentiate monocyte .
il-1 receptor and tcr signal synergize to activate nf-kappa b -mediated gene transcription .
previous study have demonstrate that il-1 receptor ( il-1r ) - and tcr -initiated signal can interact synergistically to increase the rate of transcription of several lymphokine and lymphokine receptor gene during the competence phase of the activation program in t helper lymphocyte .
in this report we describe how signal initiate through the type i il-1r interact with signal from the antigen receptor to synergistically augment the transactivating property of nf-kappa b .
the synergistic antigen receptor initiated signal be mediate through protein kinase c because they can be mimic by the phorbol ester , 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate , but not with calcium ionophores ; and be staurosporine sensitive but cyclosporine resistant .
gel shift analysis demonstrate that nf-kappa b nuclear translocation be stimulate primarily by il-1 rather than by antigen receptor signal .
western blot and phosphorylation analysis demonstrate that the synergistic effect on nf-kappa b functional activity be independent of i kappa b alpha ( mad3 ) - nf-kappa b dissociation in the cytosol and be not associate with i kappa b nuclear translocation .
the il-1 -induced nf-kappa b dna nuclear localization be transient and can be prolonged either by an antigen receptor-initiated signal or by inhibit protein synthesis .
these result suggest that il-1 induce both nf-kappa b nuclear translocation and the synthesis of a protein ( s ) responsible for terminate nf-kappa b -dna interaction in the nucleus .
antigen receptor signal prolong nf-kappa b -dna interaction , probably by functionally antagonize the il-1 -induced synthesis of a protein ( s ) responsible for the transient nf-kappa b -dna interaction and consequently synergistically enhance il-1 -induced nf-kappa b -dependent gene transcription .
the control of lytic replication of epstein-barr virus in b lymphocyte ( review ) .
uncontrolled replication of a virus , which be harmful to the host be also disadvantageous to the virus .
most virus can not compete with the various immune mechanism and become eliminate in the course of infection .
therefore , only the time between infection and eradication remain for these virus to proliferate .
a few virus , like the herpesviruses or the papillomaviruses , however , have develop a sophisticated strategy for persist lifelong , usually asymptomatically in the host , hide from the immune system and produce infectious progeny at the same time .
this strategy depend on a separation of latency and the lytic replication , either by time due to differentiation-dependent mechanism or by spatial separation a the result of different host cell type .
both be true for the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) .
b cell and epithelial cell have a pivotal role in the life cycle of the virus .
the former can become latently infected and be think to be the virus reservoir in vivo , whereas the latter be show to be permissive for lytic replication .
however , replication of ebv in vivo be control primarily by host immune mechanism select for cell that be not permissive for viral replication a the result of a particular set of transcription factor .
these factor control the activity of the regulatory immediate-early gene and , in addition , lytic and latent cycle regulatory gene negatively interfere with each other and thus link cellular and viral gene regulatory mechanism .
disturbance of both the immune surveillance as well a viral gene regulation may result in ebv -associated disease .
no evidence for the expression of the progesterone receptor on peripheral blood lymphocyte during pregnancy [ see comment ]
the expression of the progesterone receptor in human peripheral blood lymphocyte be analyse , use an enzyme linked immunosorbent assay ( abbott pgr-eia monoclonal ) , in order to evaluate it prognostic character in the context of spontaneous abortion .
cytosol be prepare from lymphocyte of 24 healthy pregnant woman ( 11 first , 10 second and three third trimester ) , seven healthy non-pregnant woman , nine woman with recurrent spontaneous abortion , and six healthy men .
in addition , a human breast carcinoma cell line ( zr-75-1 ) , which express the progesterone receptor , be analyse throughout .
the zr-75-1 cell line show an expression of 642 fmol/mg whereas lymphocyte of pregnant woman show an expression < or = 4 fmol/mg .
lymphocyte of non-pregnant woman , woman with threaten pre-term delivery , and men show equivalent level : 3 +/- 1 , 3 +/- 2 and 5 +/- 4 fmol/mg respectively .
these result show that there be no evidence of specific expression of the progesterone receptor in pregnancy and exclude any prognostic character in spontaneous abortion .
a role for the progesterone receptor in the mechanism of the known effect of progesterone on peripheral blood lymphocyte be also exclude .
involvement of mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway in interleukin-8 production by human monocyte and polymorphonuclear cell stimulate with lipopolysaccharide or mycoplasma fermentans membrane lipoprotein .
interleukin-8 ( il-8 ) be a chemokine that belong to the alpha-chemokine or cxc subfamily and be produce by a wide variety of human cell , include monocyte and polymorphonuclear cell ( pmn ) .
il-8 be secrete in response to inflammatory stimulus , notably bacterial product such a lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , but little be know about the mechanism by which these agent mediate il-8 induction .
in this report , we show that mycoplasma fermentans lipid-associated membrane protein ( lampf ) induce the production of high level of il-8 by thp-1 ( human monocyte ) cell and pmn at the same extent a lp .
it be previously demonstrate that stimulation of monocytic cell with either lp or lampf lead to a series of common downstream signaling event , include the activation of protein tyrosine kinase and of mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade .
by use pd-98059 and sb203580 , two potent and selective inhibitor of mek1 ( a kinase upstream of erk1/2 ) and p38 , respectively , we have demonstrate that both erk1/2 and p38 cascade play a key role in the production of il-8 by monocyte and pmn stimulate with bacterial fraction .
regulation of cytokine and cytokine receptor expression by glucocorticoid .
glucocorticoid ( gc ) profoundly inhibit several aspect of t cell immunity largely through inhibition of cytokine expression at the transcriptional and posttranscriptional level .
gc be also report to act indirectly by induce transform growth factor-beta expression , which in turn block t cell immunity .
in exert their antiproliferative effect , gc diffuse into target cell where they bind their cytoplasmic receptor , which in turn translocate to the nucleus where it inhibit transcription of cytokine gene through direct binding to the glucocorticoid response element ( gre ) , which be located in the promoter region of cytokine gene or , alternatively , through antagonism of the action of transcription factor require for optimal transcriptional activation .
in contrast to their inhibitory effect on cytokine expression , gc up-regulate cytokine receptor expression that correlate with enhance cytokine effect on target cell .
in this review , we summarize the current state of knowledge of the mechanism of action of gc , include the phenomenon of steroid-induced rebound , which ensue upon gc withdrawal .
overproduction of nfkb2 ( lyt-10 ) and c-rel : a mechanism for htlv-i tax -mediated trans-activation via the nf-kappa b signalling pathway .
molecular , biochemical and epidemiological evidence implicate htlv-i a an etiologic agent of adult t cell leukemia ( atl ) .
the tax protein of htlv-i , a positive transcriptional activator of htlv-i gene expression , be a viral oncogene that also increase transcription of cellular gene include gm-csf , il-2r alpha and il-2 .
one of the cellular target of the trans-activating effect of tax be the nf-kappa b /rel family of transcription factor , pleiotropic regulator of immunoregulatory , cytokine and viral gene expression .
in this report , we demonstrate that nfkb2 ( lyt-10 ) and c-rel be overexpressed in htlv-i infected and tax-expressing cell and , together , account for the majority of the constitutive nf-kappa b binding activity in these cell before and after pma stimulation .
most importantly , we show a tax -dependent correlation between expression of nfkb2 ( p100 ) and processing to the dna binding nfkb2 ( p52 ) form , induction of c-rel , and trans-activation of nf-kappa b -mediated gene expression .
furthermore , the nfkb2 precursor be physically associate with c-rel and with tax in htlv-i infected cell .
we propose that nfkb2 synthesis and processing allow continuous nuclear expression of an otherwise cytoplasmic protein and , in conjunction with overexpression of c-rel , nfkb2 alter the nf-kappa b signalling pathway and contribute to leukemic transformation of t cell by htlv-i .
inhibition of alpha interferon but not gamma interferon signal transduction by phorbol ester be mediate by a tyrosine phosphatase .
previous study have indicate that the expression of viral oncoproteins , cell transformation , or phorbol ester treatment of cell can inhibit alpha/beta interferon ( ifn-alpha/beta ) -induced gene expression .
the mechanism by which these promoter of cell growth exert their inhibitory effect vary , but in most instance they involve a disruption of the ifn-alpha/beta-induced transcription complex isgf3 such that the dna-binding component of this complex ( the 48-kda isgf3gamma protein ) do not bind to the interferon-stimulated response element ( isre ) .
in this report , we demonstrate that phorbol ester treatment of human peripheral blood monocyte dramatically inhibit activation of ifn-alpha/b-stimulated early response gene but by a mechanism which do not involve abrogation of the isre binding of isgf3gamma .
phorbol ester treatment of monocyte inhibit ifn alpha-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of the transcription factor stat1alpha , stat2 , and stat3 and of the tyrosine kinase tyk2 but have no effect on ifn-gamma activation of stat1alpha .
ifnalpha-stimulated tyrosine phosphorylation of jak1 and the alpha subunit of the ifn-alpha receptor be unaffected by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) .
moreover , pma cause the dephosphorylation of tyk2 but not of jak1 , which be activate by ifn .
pretreatment of cell with vanadate prevent the effect of pma with regard to pma -induced tyk2 dephosphorylation .
these observation suggest that pma exert it inhibitory effect by activation of a tyrosine phosphatase which selectively regulate tyk2 but not jak1 activity .
cross-linking cd40 on b cell rapidly activate nuclear factor-kappa b .
the b cell-associated surface molecule cd40 function to regulate b cell response .
cross-linking cd40 on b cell can lead to homotypic cell adhesion , il-6 production , and , in combination with cytokine , to ig isotype switching .
tyrosine kinase activity be increase shortly after engagement of this receptor .
little be know about how the very early event induce by cd40 cross-linking link to cellular response .
in this study , we demonstrate that nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b and nf-kappa b-like transcription factor be activate after cross-linking cd40 on rest human tonsillar b cell and on b cell line .
the activation be rapid and be mediate through a tyrosine kinase-dependent pathway .
the complex detect in electrophoretic mobility shift assay contain p50 , p65 ( rela ) , c-rel , and most likely other component .
by use transient transfection assay , we find that cross-linking cd40 support nf-kappa b -dependent gene expression .
our result define the nf-kappa b system a an intermediate event in cd40 signaling and suggest that the cd40 pathway can influence the expression of b cell-associated gene with nf-kappa b consensus site .
[ regulation of intracellular cholesterol synthesis in hypercholesterolemia by glucocorticoid ]
the rate of endogenous cholesterol synthesis in blood lymphocyte and skin fibroblast from patient with type iia hyperlipidemia be find to be increase in comparison with healthy donor .
the cell of hyperlipidemic patient have lowered level of glucocorticoid receptor concomitantly with a partial loss of their sensitivity to glucocorticoid .
in fibroblast from patient with hereditary hypercholesteremia of homozygous type the number of glucocorticoid receptor do not exceed 10 % of their content in normal cell .
the decrease of the number of glucocorticoid receptor in patient with type iia hyperlipidemia seem to be a compensatory response of cell culminate in activation of endogenous cholesterol synthesis .
inhibition of activation of transcription factor ap-1 by cd28 signalling in human t-cells .
co-stimulation of t-lymphocytes by t-cell receptor ( tcr ) occupancy and activation of the cd28 surface molecule result in enhance proliferation and interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) production .
the increase in il-2 gene expression trigger by cd28 involve a kappa b-like sequence in the 5'-regulatory region of the il-2 promoter , call cd28 -responsive element .
stimulation of t-cells by agonistic anti- cd28 antibody in conjunction with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) - or tcr -derived signal induce the enhance activation of the transcription factor nf-kappa b .
here we report that cd28 engagement , however , exert opposite effect on the transcription factor ap-1 .
whereas anti- cd28 together with pma increase the dna binding and trans-activation activity of nf-kappa b , pma -induced activation of ap-1 be significantly suppress .
the inhibitory effect exert by anti- cd28 be observe at the level of dna binding as well a in functional reporter-gene assay .
these result suggest that the two transcription factor be independently regulate and may perform different function during t-cell activation .
analysis of oct2-isoform expression in lipopolysaccharide -stimulated b lymphocyte .
oct2-isoform expression in splenic b cell stimulate with lipopolysaccharide or lipopolysaccharide plus phorbol-di-butyrate be analyse by cdna cloning .
the frequency of oct2-positive clone be 1/15,000 in both library .
two new isoforms be find that generate novel amino- or carboxy- terminal sequence .
an isoform lack exon 11 destroy the carboxy-terminal leucin-zipper region and introduce a frame shift create a novel , proline -rich carboxy terminus .
a new exon contain a highly basic region ( 4c ) be characterize , between exon 4 and 5 .
this exon be insert between glutamine-rich region 2 and 3 , carboxy terminal of a tentative leucine-zipper structure .
in addition , a new combination isoform contain oct2a 's amino terminal insert ( exon 7a ) and oct2b 's carboxy terminal insert ( exon 13 ) be find that create a novel large isoform , oct2ab .
more frequent use of the classical oct2a and oct2b isoforms be observe in the lipopolysaccharide -stimulated b cell , while a preference for the oct2ab and oct2ba isoforms be observe in lipopolysaccharide plus phorbol-di-butyrate -treated cell .
b-lymphoblastoid cell line from multiple sclerosis patient and a healthy control produce a putative new human retrovirus and epstein-barr virus .
on several occasion we have observe retrovirus-like particle ( rvlps ) by transmission electron microscopy ( em ) of culture t cell from a patient with m .
later we establish spontaneously form b-lymphoblastoid cell line ( lcls ) from a patient with an m -like disease and from another patient with m who have a reactivate epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) infection .
both lcls be find by em to produce rvlp and ebv particle .
reverse transcriptase ( rt ) assay be positive in purify viral material from both lcls .
to substantiate these finding we initiate an intensify culturing procedure and be able to establish lcls from 5 out of 21 consecutive m patient and 1 out of 13 consecutive healthy control .
all lcls be find to produce both rvlp and ebv particle by em .
whether the putative new retrovirus ( e ) and ebv have any causal relationship to m be still not know , but the finding support this possibility .
comparative mapping of sry in the great ape .
cytogenetic study of the primate y chromosome have suggest that extensive rearrangement have occur during evolution of the great ape .
we have use in situ hybridization to define these rearrangement at the molecular level .
phu-14 , a probe include sequence from the sex determining gene sry , hybridize close to the early replicate pseudoautosomal segment in a telomeric or subtelomeric position of the y chromosome of all great ape .
the low copy repeat detect by the probe fr35-ii be obviously include in y chromosomal rearrangement during hominid evolution .
these result , combine with previous study , suggest that the y chromosome in great ape have a conserve region include the pseudoautosomal region and the testis-determining region .
the rest of the y chromosome have undergo several rearrangement in the different great ape .
a novel mitogen-inducible gene product related to p50/p105-nf-kappa b participate in transactivation through a kappa b site .
a rel-related , mitogen-inducible , kappa b-binding protein have be clone a an immediate-early activation gene of human peripheral blood t cell .
the cdna have an open reading frame of 900 amino acid capable of encode a 97-kda protein .
this protein be most similar to the 105-kda precursor polypeptide of p50-nf-kappa b .
like the 105-kda precursor , it contain an amino-terminal rel-related domain of about 300 amino acid and a carboxy-terminal domain contain six full cell cycle or ankyrin repeat .
in vitro-translated protein , truncate downstream of the rel domain and exclude the repeat , bind kappa b site .
we refer to the kappa b-binding , truncate protein a p50b by analogy with p50-nf-kappa b and to the full-length protein a p97 .
p50b be able to form heteromeric kappa b-binding complex with relb , as well a with p65 and p50 , the two subunit of nf-kappa b .
transient-transfection experiment in embryonal carcinoma cell demonstrate a functional cooperation between p50b and relb or p65 in transactivation of a reporter plasmid dependent on a kappa b site .
the data imply the existence of a complex family of nf-kappa b -like transcription factor .
various mode of basic helix-loop-helix protein -mediated regulation of murine leukemia virus transcription in lymphoid cell line .
the transcriptionally regulatory region of the lymphomagenic akv and sl3-3 murine leukemia retrovirus ( mlvs ) contain two type of e-box consensus motif , cagatg .
one type , ea/s , be located in the upstream promoter region , and the other , e ( gre ) , be located in a tandem repeat with enhancer property .
we have examine the requirement of the individual e-boxes in mlv transcriptional regulation .
in lymphoid cell line only , the e ( gre ) -binding protein complex include alf1 or heb and e2a basic helix-loop-helix protein .
ectopic alf1 and e2a protein require intact e ( gre ) motif for mediate transcriptional activation .
alf1 transactivated transcription of akv mlv through the two e ( gre ) motif equally , whereas e2a protein require the promoter-proximal e ( gre ) motif .
in t- and b- cell line , the e ( gre ) motif be of major importance for akv mlv transcriptional activity , while the ea/s motif have some effect .
in contrast , neither e ( gre ) nor ea/s motif contribute pronouncedly to akv mlv transcription in nih 3t3 cell lack dna-binding alf1 or heb and e2a protein .
the id1 protein be find to repress alf1 activity in vitro and in vivo .
moreover , ectopic id1 repress e ( gre ) -directed but not ea/s -directed mlv transcription in lymphoid cell line .
in conclusion , e ( gre ) motif and interact basic helix-loop-helix protein be important determinant for mlv transcriptional activity in lymphocytic cell line .
reconstitution of t cell antigen receptor-induced erk2 kinase activation in lck-negative jcam1 cell by syk .
the two related protein- tyrosine kinase syk and zap be rapidly phosphorylated on tyrosine residue and enzymatically activate upon crosslinking of the t cell antigen receptor .
we have previously report that the activation of syk be less dependent on the src family kinase lck than the activation of zap .
here we report that overexpression of syk in the lck -negative jcam1 cell enable the t cell antigen receptor /cd3 complex to induce a normal activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) pathway and expression of a nuclear factor of activate t cell reporter construct .
in contrast , zap and other protein- tyrosine kinase be unable to reconstitute these signaling pathway when express at the same level .
in parallel , syk be phosphorylated on tyrosine , while zap be not .
the syk -mediated t cell antigen receptor -induced mapk activation be detectable within 1 min of receptor stimulation and peak at 3-5 min .
the capacity of syk to reconstitute the mapk response require the catalytic activity of syk , an intact autophosphorylation site ( y518 and y519 ) , both src homology 2 domain and it be block by the inhibitory n17-mutated dominant-negative ra construct .
a y341 --> f mutant of syk , which be deficient in it interaction with phospholipase cy1 and vav , be less efficient than wild-type syk .
our result suggest that syk , in contrast to zap , can transduce signal from the t cell antigen receptor independently of lck .
an acute myeloid leukemia gene , aml1 , regulate transcriptional activation and hemopoietic myeloid cell differentiation antagonistically by two alternative spliced form .
the aml1 gene on chromosome 21 be disrupt in the (8;21)(q22;q22) and (3;21)(q26;q22) translocation associate with myelogenous leukemia and encode a dna-binding protein .
from aml1 gene , two representative form of protein , aml1a and aml1b , be produce by an alternative splicing .
both form have dna-binding domain , but aml1a lack a putative transcriptional activation domain which aml1b have .
here we demonstrate that aml1a , which solely have no effect a a transcriptional regulator , dominantly suppress transcriptional activation by aml1b , and that aml1a exhibit the high affinity for dna-binding than aml1b .
furthermore a dominant negative form of aml1 , aml1a , totally suppress granulocytic differentiation otherwise induce by granulocyte colony-stimulating factor when aml1a be overexpressed in 32dc13 murine myeloid cell .
such differentiation block by aml1a be cancel by the concomitant overexpression of aml1b .
these data strongly suggest that a transcriptionally active form of aml1 be essential for the myeloid cell differentiation .
in addition , we observe an altered expression level of aml1 along with the myeloid differentiation in several hemopoietic cell line .
in these case , at least , the aml1 expression level be a potential regulator for myeloid cell differentiation .
oxidative stress suppress transcription factor activity in stimulate lymphocyte .
effect of oxidative stress on stimulation-dependent signal transduction , lead to il-2 expression , be study .
purify quiescent human blood t lymphocyte be subject to : ( i ) acute exposure to hydrogen peroxide ; ( ii ) chronic exposure to hydrogen peroxide ; and ( iii ) acute exposure to ionize radiation .
the cell be then stimulate for 6 h .
dna-binding activity ( determine by the electrophoretic mobility shift assay ) of three transcription factor : nfkappab , ap-1 and nfat , be abolish in the lymphocyte by all three mode of oxidative stress .
the lymphocyte exhibit lipid peroxidation only upon exposure to the low level of hydrogen peroxide use ( 20 microm ) .
all three mode of oxidative stress induce catalase activity in the lymphocyte .
the only exception be hydrogen peroxide at 20 microm , which do not induce catalase activity .
we conclude that : ( i ) suppression of specific transcription factor function can potentially serve a a marker of exposure to oxidative stress and it effect on human lymphocyte ; ( ii ) lipid peroxidation be only detectable in human lymphocyte upon exposure to weak oxidative stress which do not induce catalase activity ; ( iii ) therefore , transcription factor dna-binding activity be more sensitive to oxidative stress than lipid peroxidation .
naive ( cd45ra+ ) t lymphocyte be more sensitive to oxidative stress-induced signal than memory ( cd45ro+ ) cell .
formation of reactive oxygen intermediate ( roi ) after oxidative stress have be show to be an activation signal for t lymphocyte , e.g. , expression of il-2 and it receptor be induce .
these roi -induced effect can , to a large extent , be attribute to the activation of the transcription factor nf-kappab .
now we have examine whether naive and memory t lymphocyte differ in their sensitivity to roi -mediated signal .
when cd45ra+ ( naive ) and cd45ro+ ( memory ) t lymphocyte be directly stimulate with h2o2 , nf-kappab nuclear translocation be strong in naive cell than in memory cell and it could be induce with low dos .
the composition of the induce nuclear nf-kappab ( level of p50 and rela protein ) be similar in these cell type .
the magnitude and kinetics of intracellular roi be similar , suggest that there be no difference in roi -forming mechanism or antioxidative capacity .
the probable regulatory point be the cytoplasmic ikappab inhibitor : in cd45ra+ cell , h2o2 cause a more profound depression in the level of ikappab alpha .
these finding indicate that t cell represent different activation and/or differentiation stage can be differentially responsive to roi -mediated signal .
mip1 alpha nuclear protein ( mnp ) , a novel transcription factor express in hematopoietic cell that be crucial for transcription of the human mip-1 alpha gene .
murine macrophage inflammatory protein 1 alpha ( mip-1 alpha ) and it human equivalent ( gos19 , ld78 , or at464 ) be member of the -c-c family of low-molecular-weight chemokines .
secrete from activate t cell and macrophage , bone marrow-derived mip-1 alpha /gos19 inhibit primitive hematopoietic stem cell and appear to be involve in the homeostatic control of stem cell proliferation .
it also induce chemotaxis and inflammatory response in mature cell type .
therefore , it be important to understand the mechanism which control the expression of mip-1 alpha /gos19 .
previous work have show that in jurkat t cell , a set of widely express transcription factor ( the ick-1 family ) affect the gos19 promoter .
one member , ick-1a , behave a a strong negative regulator .
in this communication , we provide evidence that the pathway of induction in the macrophage cell line u937 be different from that in jurkat cell .
furthermore , we show that the ick-1 binding site do not confer negative regulation in u937 cell .
we provide evidence for an additional bind site , the mip-1 alpha nuclear protein ( mnp ) site , which overlap the ick-1 site .
interaction of nuclear extract from various cell line and tissue with the mnp site lead to the formation of fast-migrating protein-dna complex with similar but distinct electrophoretic mobility .
a mutation of the mnp site which do not abrogate ick-1 binding inactivate the gos19.1 promoter in u937 cell and reduce it activity by fourfold in jurkat cell .
we propose that the mnp protein ( s ) bind at the mnp site constitute a novel transcription factor ( s ) express in hematopoietic cell .
nuclear factor of activate t cell contain fo and jun .
the nuclear factor nf-at ( ref. 1 ) be induce in t cell stimulate through the t-cell receptor/cd3 complex , and be require for interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene induction .
although nf-at have not be clone or purify , there be evidence that it be a major target for immunosuppression by cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 ( ref 2-7 ) .
nf-at induction may require two activation-dependent event : the csa -sensitive translocation of a pre-existing component and the csa -resistant synthesis of a nuclear component .
here we report that the newly synthesize nuclear component of nf-at be the transcription factor ap-1 .
we show that the inducible nuclear form of nf-at contain fo and jun protein .
furthermore , we identify a pre-existing nf-at -binding factor that be present in hypotonic extract of unstimulated t cell .
on the basis of binding , reconstitution and cotransfection experiment , we propose that activation of nf-at occur in at least two stage : a csa -sensitive stage involve modification and/or translocation of the pre-existing nf-at complex , and a csa -insensitive stage involve the addition of newly synthesize fo or fos/jun protein to the pre-existing complex .
an element upstream from the human delta-globin-encoding gene specifically enhance beta-globin reporter gene expression in murine erythroleukemia cell .
we have previously show that a dna-binding factor specific to adult hematopoietic cell ( polypryrimidine-binding factor , pybf ) bind to a pyrimidine-rich region 1 kb upstream from the human delta-globin-encoding gene ( hbd ) .
the developmental stage-specificity of pybf and the location of it bind site between the fetal and adult beta-globin ( hbb ) -like gene suggest that pbyf and it bind site may function in fetal-to-adult globin gene switching .
here , we describe the effect of 383-bp ( delta383 ) and 99-bp ( delta99 ) sequence contain the pybf -binding site on transcription from various globin and non-globin promoter , use a transient assay with the cat reporter gene in murine erythroleukemia ( mel ) cell , a cell line with abundant pybf activity .
we show that both delta383 and delta99 specifically enhance expression of cat for plasmid contain a human adult globin ( hbb ) promoter , whereas expression of similar construct use human fetal ( a gamma- ) globin ( hbg1 ) or simian virus 40 ( sv40 ) promoter be not enhance .
the result suggest that pybf and the pyrimidine-rich region upstream from hbd can specifically enhance hbb transcription in adult erythroid cell .
regulation of the tissue factor gene in human monocytic cell .
role of ap-1 , nf-kappa b/rel , and sp1 protein in uninduced and lipopolysaccharide -induced expression .
tissue factor ( tf ) expression by peripheral blood monocyte during sepsis initiate intravascular thrombosis .
bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) rapidly induce tf gene transcription in monocyte .
the human tf promoter contain bind site for the transcription factor ap-1 , c-rel/p65 , egr-1 , and sp1 .
nf-kappa b/rel protein have be show to physically interact with both ap-1 and sp1 protein .
in this study , we investigate the role of these transcription factor in uninduced and lp -induced tf gene expression in human monocytic thp-1 cell .
deletional analysis indicate that five sp1 site mediate basal expression in uninduced cell .
the two ap-1 site bind c-fos /c-jun heterodimers in both unstimulated and lps-stimulated cell .
maximal lp induction of the tf promoter require the two ap-1 site and the kappa b site within the lp response element .
disruption of the conserve spacing between the proximal ap-1 site and the kappa b site abolish lp induction .
replacement of the two ap-1 site with intrinsically bent dna partially restore lp induction , suggest an additional structural role for the ap-1 site .
synergistic transactivation of the lp response element in drosophila schneider cell by coexpression of c-fos , c-jun , c-rel , and p65 or c-jun and p65 require the transactivation domain of c-jun and p65 .
these data indicate that c-fos /c-jun , c-rel /p65 , and sp1 regulate tf gene expression in human monocytic cell .
structure and expression of the human gata3 gene .
gata3 , a member of the gata family that be abundantly express in the t-lymphocyte lineage , be think to participate in t-cell receptor gene activation through binding to enhancer .
to understand gata3 gene regulation , we clone the human gene and the 5' end of the mouse gata3 gene .
we show that the human gata3 gene contain six exon distribute over 17 kb of dna .
the two human gata3 zinc finger be encode by two separate exon highly conserve with those of gata1 , but no other structural homology between these two gene can be find .
the human and mouse gata3 transcription unit start at a major initiation site .
the promoter sequence analysis of these two gene reveal that they be embedded within a cpg island and share structural feature often find in the promoter of housekeeping gene .
finally , we show that a dna fragment contain the human gata3 transcription unit , 3 kb upstream from the initiation site and 4 kb downstream from the polyadenylation site , display t-cell specificity .
the activation of the jak2 /stat5 pathway be commonly involve in signaling through the human il-5 receptor .
the jak ( janus kinase ) family of protein tyrosine kinase and the stats ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) have be show to be activate in response to a number of cytokine and growth factor .
in this study , we evaluate the activation of jak /stat pathway upon human interleukin-5 ( hil-5 ) stimulation of two different hil-5 -responsive cell line , hil-5 receptor alpha-subunit ( hil-5r alpha ) cdna-transfected tf-1 ( tf-h5r alpha ) and butyric-acid -treated yy-1 ( yy-bu ) , and peripheral eosinophil .
immunoprecipitation and electrophoretic mobility shift analysis reveal that tyrosine phosphorylation of jak2 and activation of stat5 be induce upon stimulation with hil-5 in all three cell type , while stat1 activation be only observe in eosinophil .
these result indicate that jak2 /stat5 activation be a common jak /stat pathway for hil-5 -mediated signal in these cell .
orip be essential for ebna gene promoter activity in epstein-barr virus-immortalized lymphoblastoid cell line .
during epstein-barr virus latent infection of b lymphocyte in vitro , six viral nuclear antigen ( ebnas ) be express from one of two promoter , cp or wp , whose activity be mutually exclusive .
upon infection , wp be initially active , follow by a switch to cp for the duration of latency .
in this study , the region upstream of cp be analyze for the presence of ci element involve in regulate the activity of the ebna gene promoter in established in vitro immortalize lymphoblastoid cell line ( lcls ) .
it be determine that orip , the origin for episomal maintenance during latency , be essential for efficient transcription initiation from either cp or wp in lcls , as well a in some burkitt 's lymphoma cell line .
deletion of the ebna2-dependent enhancer located upstream of cp result in a ca. two- to fivefold reduction in cp activity in the lcls assay .
more extensive deletion of sequence upstream of cp , include the ebna2-dependent enhancer , result in nearly complete loss of cp activity .
this loss of activity be show to correlate with deletion of two ccaat box , a proximal ccaat box located at bp -61 to -65 and a distal ccaat box located at bp -253 to -257 , upstream of cp .
site-directed mutagenesis of these ci element demonstrate that cp activity be highly dependent on the presence of a properly position ccaat box , with the dependence on the distal ccaat box apparent only when the proximal ccaat box be delete or mutate .
deletion of the glucocorticoid response element located at ca. bp -850 upstream of cp do not result in a significant loss in activity .
in general , deletion which diminish cp activity result in induction of wp activity , consistent with suppression of wp activity by transcriptional interference from cp .
the identification of orip and the ebna2-dependent enhancer a the major positive ci element involve in regulate cp activity in lcl suggest that ebna gene transcription be largely autoregulated by ebna 1 and ebna 2 .
uneven x inactivation in a female monozygotic twin pair with fabry disease and discordant expression of a novel mutation in the alpha-galactosidase a gene .
we describe two female monozygotic ( mz ) twin heterozygous for fabry disease , an x link disorder result from the deficient activity of alpha-galactosidase a .
while one of the twin be clinically affect , the other be asymptomatic .
enzymatic assay of alpha-galactosidase in blood leucocyte , skin fibroblast , epstein-barr virus transform lymphoid cell line , and hair follicle of the twin and their parent confirm the heterozygous status of the twin and indicate that fabry disease have occur a a result of a de novo mutation .
the son of the unaffected twin sister be show to be hemizygous .
molecular analysis of the alpha-galactosidase a gene permit the identification of an as yet undescribed point mutation at position 10182 of exon 5 which cause an asp to asn substitution at codon 231 .
single strand conformation polymorphism ( sscp ) analysis again show the heterozygous status of the twin and a normal pattern in their parent .
the basis for the discordant expression of this d novo mutation in the twin be investigate by study their x inactivation status .
analysis of the inactive x specific methylation at the androgen receptor gene show unbalanced inactivation in the twin ' fibroblast and in opposite direction .
while the maternally derive x chromosome be preferentially active in the asymptomatic twin , the paternal x chromosome be active in the other , affect twin and be find in her hemizygotic nephew .
these data suggest that the paternal x chromosome carry the de novo alpha-galactosidase a mutation and that uneven x inactivation be the underlie mechanism for disease expression in this novel female mz twin pair .
this be the first document case of female twin discordant for fabry disease .
association of traf1 , traf2 , and traf3 with an epstein-barr virus lmp1 domain important for b-lymphocyte transformation : role in nf-kappab activation .
the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) transform protein lmp1 appear to be a constitutively activate tumor necrosis factor receptor ( tnfr ) on the basis of an intrinsic ability to aggregate in the plasma membrane and an association of it cytoplasmic carboxyl terminus ( ct ) with tnfr -associated factor ( trafs ) .
we now show that in ebv-transformed b lymphocyte most of traf1 or traf3 and 5 % of traf2 be associate with lmp1 and that most of lmp1 be associate with traf1 or traf3 .
traf1 , traf2 , and traf3 bind to a single site in the lmp1 ct correspond to amino acid ( aa ) 199 to 214 , within a domain which be important for b-lymphocyte growth transformation ( aa 187 to 231 ) .
further deletional and alanine mutagenesis analysis and comparison with traf binding sequence in cd40 , in cd30 , and in the lmp1 of other lymphycryptoviruses provide the first evidence that pxqxt/s be a core traf binding motif .
the negative effect of point mutation in the lmp1 (1-231) core traf binding motif on traf binding and nf-kappab activation genetically link the trafs to lmp1 (1-231)-mediated nf-kappab activation .
nf-kappab activation by lmp1 (1-231) be likely to be mediate by traf1 /traf2 heteroaggregates since traf1 be unique among the trafs in coactivating nf-kappab with lmp1 (1-231) , a traf2 dominant-negative mutant can block lmp1 (1-231)-mediated nf-kappab activation as well a traf1 coactivation , and 30 % of traf2 be associate with traf1 in ebv-transformed b cell .
traf3 be a negative modulator of lmp1 (1-231)-mediated nf-kappab activation .
surprisingly , traf 1 , -2 , or -3 do not interact with the terminal lmp1 ct aa 333 to 386 which can independently mediate nf-kappab activation .
the constitutive association of trafs with lmp1 through the aa 187 to 231 domain which be important in nf-kappab activation and primary b-lymphocyte growth transformation implicate traf aggregation in lmp1 signaling .
interleukin-5 signaling in human eosinophil involve jak2 tyrosine kinase and stat1 alpha .
signaling by a wide variety of cytokine , include interferon , interleukin , and growth factor , involve activation of jak kinase and stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) protein .
at present , not much be know about the molecular mechanism by which interleukin-5 ( il-5 ) exert it diverse biologic effect .
human eosinophil be one of the most important target cell for il-5 and be use here to study il-5 signaling in a primary human cell .
il-5 induce rapid and transient tyrosine phosphorylation of jak2 .
moreover , il-5 induce at least two dna-binding complex , use nuclear extract from normal human eosinophil and the il-6/interferon-gamma response element of the icam-1 promoter ( icam-1 pire ) in an electromobility shift assay .
from supershift experiment it be conclude that one dna-binding complex contain stat1 alpha , probably a a homodimer .
both dna-binding complex be inhibit by a phosphotyrosine antibody ( 4g10 ) , suggest that tyrosine phosphorylation be require for complex formation .
il-3 and granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor induce , similar to il-5 , two dna-binding complex in human eosinophil , include stat1 alpha .
these data show for the first time that molecular mechanism of il-5 signaling in human eosinophil involve member of the jak kinase family as well a member of the stat family .
p21ras initiate rac-1 but not phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase /pkb , mediate signaling pathway in t lymphocyte .
p21ras be activate by the t cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) and then coordinate important signaling pathway for t lymphocyte activation .
effector pathway for this guanine nucleotide binding protein in t cell be mediate by the serine/threonine kinase raf-1 and the ras-related gtpase rac-1 .
in fibroblast , an important effector for the ra oncogene be phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase ( ptdins 3-kinase ) .
activation of this lipid kinase be able to induce critical rac-1 signaling pathway and can couple p21ras to cell survival mechanism via the serine /threonine kinase akt/pkb .
the role of ptdins 3-kinase in ra signaling in t cell have not be explore .
in the present study , we examine the ability of ptdins 3-kinase to initiate the rac-1 signaling pathway important for t cell activation .
we also examine the possibility that akt/pkb be regulate by ra signaling pathway in t lymphocyte .
the result show that ra can initiate a rac-1 mediated pathway that regulate the transcriptional function of ap-1 complex .
ptdins 3-kinase signal can not mimic p21ras and induce the rac mediated response of ap-1 transcriptional activation .
moreover , neither tcr or ra activation of ap-1 be dependent on ptdins 3-kinase .
pkb be activate in response to triggering of the t cell antigen receptor ; ptdins 3-kinase activity be both require and sufficient for this tcr response .
in contrast , p21ras signal be unable to induce akt/pkb activity in t cell nor be ra function require for akt/pkb activation in response to the tcr .
the present data thus highlight that ptdins 3-kinase and akt/pkb be not universal ra effector molecule .
ra can initiate rac-1 regulated signaling pathway in the context of t cell antigen receptor function independently of ptdins 3-kinase activity .
lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor : predictor of sertraline response in adolescent major depressive disorder ( mdd ) .
major depressive disorder ( mdd ) in adolescent demonstrate resistance to tricyclic antidepressant and absence of hypercortisolemia .
the efficacy of serotonin reuptake inhibitor ( sris ) be uncertain , and response predictor be unavailable .
abnormal fast feedback and negative feedback of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis implicate a dampened limbic-hippocampal glucocorticoid type ii receptor ( gcii ) .
we hypothesize that lymphocyte gcii be alter in adolescent mdd and could serve a a marker for response to sris .
in an open-label study , adolescent ( n = 20 ) meet dsm-iii-r criterion for mdd show baseline lymphocyte gcii site per cell ( sites/cell ) value of 793 +/- 106 versus 2 , 563 +/- 499 ( +/- sem ) for match control ( n = 18 ) ( t = 3.5 ; df = 36 ; p < .001 ) .
gcii be bimodally distribute , with sri responder differ from nonresponders ( t = 3.9 ; df = 14 ; p < .001 ) .
gcii accurately classify 90 percent of sertraline responder and 80 percent of nonresponders .
only sri responder show gcii sites/cell upregulated after 6 week of treatment ( t = 2.1 , df = 10 ; p < .05 ) .
cell-type-specific transactivation of the parathyroid hormone-related protein gene promoter by the human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) tax and htlv-ii tax protein .
the human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) and htlv-ii tax protein be potent transactivators of viral and cellular gene expression .
use deletion mutant , the downstream parathyroid hormone-related protein ( pthrp ) promoter be show to be responsive to both htlv-i and htlv-ii tax as well a the ap1/c-jun proto-oncogene .
transactivation of pthrp by tax be see in t cell but not in b-cell line or fibroblast .
a carboxy terminal tax deletion mutant be deficient in transactivation of both the pthrp and il2r alpha promoter but not the htlv-i long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
exogenous provision of nfkb rescue il2r alpha expression but not the pthrp promoter .
thus , htlv-i tax , htlv-ii tax , and c-jun transactivate pthrp and may contribute to the pathogenesis of hypercalcemia in adult t-cell leukemia .
the synthesis and immunogenicity of varicella-zoster virus glycoprotein e and immediate-early protein ( ie62 ) express in recombinant herpes simplex virus-1 .
in order to evaluate the condition for optimal expression and immunogenicity of varicella-zoster virus ( vzv ) protein in a herpes simplex virus-1 ( hsv-1 ) vector , we select the vzv glycoprotein e ( ge ) , encode by orf 68 and the vzv product of orf 62 , an immediate-early major tegument protein ( ie62 ) .
three hsv/vzv recombinant be generate : ( 1 ) vzv ge protein coding sequence along with the promoter region be insert into the thymidine kinase ( tk ) gene of hsv-1 strain ko ; ( 2 ) vzv ge express from the hsv-1 icp4 promoter be insert into the glycoprotein c ( gc ) gene of hsv-1 strain f ; and ( 3 ) vzv ie62 protein coding sequence under the control of the hsv-1 icp4 promoter be insert into the gc gene of hsv-1 strain f .
immunoblot analysis and immunoperoxidase staining of infected cell monolayers demonstrate vector expression of vzv protein .
follow intracranial inoculation in mouse , both vzv ge-hsv ( tk ) and vzv ie62-hsv ( gc ) induce an igg response against vzv ge or vzv ie62 .
when test in cytotoxicity assay use t-lymphocytes from vzv immune human donor , the range of precursor frequency for t-lymphocytes that recognize vzv ge or vzv ie62 be similar whether these protein be express by hsv-1 or a vaccinia vector .
these experiment demonstrate that hsv-1 be a competent vector for expression of these vzv protein and support the feasibility of engineer a combined vaccine for these closely related alpha-herpesviruses .
effect of interleukin-10 on human peripheral blood mononuclear cell response to cryptococcus neoformans , candida albicans , and lipopolysaccharide .
deactivation of mononuclear phagocyte be critical to limit the inflammatory response but can be detrimental in the face of progressive infection .
we compare the effect of the deactivate cytokine interleukin 10 ( il-10 ) on human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) response to lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , cryptococcus neoformans , and candida albicans .
il-10 effect dose-dependent inhibition of tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf-alpha ) release in pbmc stimulate by lp and c. neoformans , with significant inhibition see with 0.1 u/ml and great than 90 % inhibition note with 10 u/ml .
in contrast , even at dos as high a 100 u/ml , il-10 inhibit tnf-alpha release in response to c. albicans by only 50 % .
il-10 profoundly inhibit release of il-1beta from pbmc stimulate by all three stimulus .
tnf-alpha mrna and release be inhibit even if il-10 be add up to 8 h after cryptococcal stimulation .
in contrast , inhibition of il-1 beta mrna be of less magnitude and occur only when il-10 be add within 2 h of cryptococcal stimulation .
il-10 inhibit translocation of nf-kappab in response to lp but not the fungal stimulus .
all three stimulus induce il-10 production in pbmc , although over 10-fold less il-10 be release in response to c. neoformans compare with lp and c. albicans .
thus , while il-10 have deactivate effect on pbmc response to all three stimulus , disparate stimulus- and response-specific pattern of deactivation be see .
inhibition by il-10 of proinflammatory cytokine release appear to occur at the level of gene transcription for tnf-alpha and both transcriptionally and posttranscriptionally for il-1beta .
ectopic expression of a conditional gata-2/estrogen receptor chimera arrest erythroid differentiation in a hormone-dependent manner .
the gata factor be a family of transcriptional regulatory protein in eukaryote that share extensive homology in their dna-binding domain .
one enigmatic aspect of gata factor expression be that several gata protein , which ostensibly share the same dna-binding site specificity , be coexpressed in erythroid cell .
to elucidate the role of individual gata factor in erythropoiesis , conditional allele of gata-1 , gata-2 , and gata-3 be prepare by fuse each of the factor to the hormone-binding domain of the human estrogen receptor ( er ) .
these gata/er chimeric factor be show to be hormone-inducible trans-activating protein in transient transfection assay .
when stably introduce into primary erythroblast or conditionally transform erythroid progenitor cell , exogenous gata-2/er promote proliferation and inhibit terminal differentiation in an estrogen -dependent manner .
these phenotypic effect be specifically attributable to the action of ectopically express gata-2/er because erythroblast express exogenous gata-2 be constitutively arrest in differentiation and because erythroid progenitor express either gal/er or gata-3/er do not display a hormone-responsive block in differentiation .
thus , the gata-2 transcription factor appear to play a role in regulate the self-renewal capacity of early erythroid progenitor cell .
i kappa b/mad-3 mask the nuclear localization signal of nf-kappa b p65 and require the transactivation domain to inhibit nf-kappa b p65 dna binding .
the active nuclear form of the nf-kappa b transcription factor complex be compose of two dna binding subunit , nf-kappa b p65 and nf-kappa b p50 , both of which share extensive n-terminal sequence homology with the v-rel oncogene product .
the nf-kappa b p65 subunit provide the transactivation activity in this complex and serve a an intracellular receptor for a cytoplasmic inhibitor of nf-kappa b , term i kappa b .
in contrast , nf-kappa b p50 alone fail to stimulate kappa b-directed transcription , and base on prior in vitro study , be not directly regulate by i kappa b .
to investigate the molecular basis for the critical regulatory interaction between nf-kappa b and i kappa b/mad-3 , a series of human nf-kappa b p65 mutant be identify that functionally segregate dna binding , i kappa b -mediated inhibition , and i kappa b -induced nuclear exclusion of this transcription factor .
result from in vivo expression study perform with these nf-kappa b p65 mutant reveal the following : 1 ) i kappa b/mad-3 completely inhibit nf-kappa b p65 -dependent transcriptional activation mediate through the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 kappa b enhancer in human t lymphocyte , 2 ) the binding of i kappa b/mad-3 to nf-kappa b p65 be sufficient to retarget nf-kappa b p65 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm , 3 ) selective deletion of the functional nuclear localization signal present in the rel homology domain of nf-kappa b p65 disrupt it ability to engage i kappa b/mad-3 , and 4 ) the unique c-terminus of nf-kappa b p65 attenuate it own nuclear localization and contain sequence that be require for i kappa b -mediated inhibition of nf-kappa b p65 dna binding activity .
together , these finding suggest that the nuclear localization signal and transactivation domain of nf-kappa b p65 constitute a bipartite system that be critically involve in the inhibitory function of i kappa b/mad-3 .
unexpectedly , our in vivo study also demonstrate that i kappa b/mad-3 bind directly to nf-kappa b p50 .
this interaction be functional a it lead to retargeting of nf-kappa b p50 from the nucleus to the cytoplasm .
however , no loss of dna binding activity be observe , presumably reflect the unique c-terminal domain that be distinct from that present in nf-kappa b p65 .
the activation of the jak -stat 1 signaling pathway by il-5 in eosinophil .
the intracellular signal transduction of il-5 in eosinophil be unknown .
the objective of this study be to investigate the involvement of the newly discover jak -stat pathway in the il-5 signal transduction mechanism .
eosinophil be purify from peripheral blood by discontinuous percoll gradient and stimulate with il-5 .
the involvement of jak 2 be investigate by immunoprecipitation follow by immunoblotting for tyrosine phosphorylation .
the activation of jak 2 be study by autophosphorylation of the immunoprecipitated kinase .
jak 2 be tyrosine phosphorylated within 1 to 3 min after stimulation of eosinophil with il-5 .
far , the immunoprecipitated jak 2 obtain from il-5 -stimulated cell undergo autophosphorylation .
jak 2 coprecipitated with the beta-subunit of the il-5 receptor , suggest a physical association of the kinase with the receptor .
the nuclear factor stat-1 ( p91 ) be investigate by immunoprecipitation follow by immunoblotting for tyrosine phosphorylation .
stat-1 be tyrosine phosphorylated within 15 min of il-5 stimulation .
the presence of stat-1 in the nuclear extract be study by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
il-5 induce two protein that bind to the gamma-activating sequence .
in the presence of an anti- stat-1 ab , the band be supershifted .
thus , we demonstrate that il-5 activate the jak 2 -stat 1 signaling pathway in eosinophil .
we speculate that the jak 2 -stat 1 pathway may be involve in the activation of il-5 -inducible gene in eosinophil .
x inactivation analysis in a female with hypomelanosis of ito associate with a balanced x ; 17 translocation : evidence for functional disomy of xp .
x inactivation analysis be perform on normal and hypopigmented skin sample obtain from a female with hypomelanosis of ito associate with a balanced whole arm x ; 17 translocation .
severe skewing of x inactivation result in inactivity of the intact x be find in blood and culture of both type of skin , but analysis of dna prepare directly from hypopigmented skin show significant inactivation of the translocate x , inconsistent with the usual mechanism of phenotypic expression in x ; autosome translocation .
in addition , dual colour fish analysis use centromere specific probe for chromosome x and 17 show that the breakpoints on both chromosome lie within the alphoid array , make interruption of a locus on either chromosome unlikely .
while partial variable monosomy of locus on chromosome 17p can not be exclude a contribute to the phenotype in this patient , it be argue that the major likely factor be partial functional disomy of sequence on xp in cell lineage that have fail to inactivate the intact x chromosome .
constitutive dephosphorylation and activation of a member of the nuclear factor of activate t cell , nf-at1 , in tax-expressing and type i human t-cell leukemia virus-infected human t cell .
the tax gene product of the type i human t-cell leukemia virus ( htlv-i ) transactivates interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene through activation of an enhancer term cd28 responsive element ( cd28re ) .
tax activation of the cd28re be partially mediate by a member of the nuclear factor of activate t cell , nf-at1 .
we have previously show that nf-at1 be constitutively active in jurkat t cell stably transfected with the tax cdna , although the underlie molecular mechanism and physiological relevance of this finding remain unclear .
in this report , we demonstrate that the active form of nf-at1 be also present in the nucleus of htlv-i -transformed t cell that express the tax protein .
interestingly , the constitutive activation of nf-at1 in these t cell be associate with it dephosphorylation .
furthermore , the dephosphorylated nf-at1 can be rapidly rephosphorylated when the cell be incubate with cyclosporin a , an immunosuppressant inhibit the serine /threonine phosphatase calcineurin .
these result suggest that activation of nf-at1 in tax-expressing and htlv-i-transformed t cell result from it dephosphorylation , which in turn may be due to deregulation of calcineurin
regulation of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 and cytokine gene expression in myeloid cell by nf-kappa b /rel transcription factor .
cd4+ macrophage in tissue such a lung , skin , and lymph node , promyelocytic cell in bone marrow , and peripheral blood monocyte serve a important target and reservoir for human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) replication .
hiv-1 -infected myeloid cell be often diminish in their ability to participate in chemotaxis , phagocytosis , and intracellular killing .
hiv-1 infection of myeloid cell can lead to the expression of surface receptor associate with cellular activation and/or differentiation that increase the responsiveness of these cell to cytokine secrete by neighbor cell as well a to bacteria or other pathogen .
enhancement of hiv-1 replication be related in part to increase dna-binding activity of cellular transcription factor such a nf-kappa b .
nf-kappa b bind to the hiv-1 enhancer region of the long terminal repeat and contribute to the inducibility of hiv-1 gene expression in response to multiple activate agent .
phosphorylation and degradation of the cytoplasmic inhibitor i kappa b alpha be crucial regulatory event in the activation of nf-kappa b dna-binding activity .
both n- and c- terminal residue of i kappa b alpha be require for inducer-mediated degradation .
chronic hiv-1 infection of myeloid cell lead to constitutive nf-kappa b dna-binding activity and provide an intranuclear environment capable of perpetuate hiv-1 replication .
increase intracellular store of latent nf-kappa b may also result in rapid inducibility of nf-kappa b -dependent cytokine gene expression .
in response to secondary pathogenic infection or antigenic challenge , cytokine gene expression be rapidly induce , enhance , and sustained over prolonged period in hiv-1 -infected myeloid cell compare with uninfected cell .
elevated level of several inflammatory cytokine have be detect in the serum of hiv-1 -infected individual .
secretion of myeloid cell-derived cytokine may both increase virus production and contribute to aids-associated disorder .
molecular mechanism of steroid action : a novel type of cross-talk between glucocorticoid and nf-kappa b transcription factor .
despite the widespread use of glucocorticoid in the treatment of disease characterize by inflammation , the molecular mechanism ( s ) by which these hormone exert this beneficial effect in patient with asthma remain to be elucidate .
therefore , we have study the transcriptional regulation of intercellular adhesion molecule-1 ( icam-1 ) a adhesion molecule be likely to play a causal role in inflammation in promote cell-cell and cell-matrix interaction .
we observe that in a monocytic ( u937 ) and a bronchial epithelial ( h292 ) cell-line dexamethasone strongly suppress basal and induce icam-1 expression .
subsequent analysis of the human icam-1 promoter have reveal that both 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( tpa ) and tumour necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) upregulate icam-1 expression through the presence of a nuclear factor ( nf-kappa b ) target sequence ( tggaaattcc ) .
no glucocorticoid recognition sequence be present in this promoter region and dexamethasone be still able to repress transcription when the multimerized nf-kappa b sequence be transactivated by tnf-alpha upon transfection in 293 cell .
we propose that direct interaction between the glucocorticoid receptor and nuclear factor-kappa b factor be at least a partial explanation for the effect of this hormone in inflammatory disease .
calcineurin act in synergy with pma to inactivate i kappa b/mad3 , an inhibitor of nf-kappa b .
the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) promoter consist of several independent t cell receptor ( tcr ) responsive element .
the induction of promoter dependent on these element be inhibitable by the immunosuppressant cyclosporin a ( csa ) and tacrolimus ( fk-506 ) .
calcineurin , a ca2+ /calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase , be the fk-506 - and csa -sensitive enzyme require for tcr mediated activation of the il-2 promoter .
we report that a constitutively active form of calcineurin partially substitute for the ca2+ co-stimulus require to activate the il-2 promoter element il-2a ( which bind the factor oap and oct-1 ) and il-2e ( which bind nf-at ) , and completely substitute for the ca2+ co-stimulus require to stimulate an nf-kappa b -dependent element .
calcineurin stimulate the nf-kappa b element by enhance inactivation of i kappa b/mad3 , an inhibitor of nf-kappa b , thereby increase the amount of nuclear nf-kappa b dna binding activity .
these data provide the first demonstration in vivo that activation of a protein phosphatase can inactivate i kappa b , and suggest one possible explanation for mechanism-based toxicity associate with fk-506 and csa by demonstrate that these drug can inhibit the calcineurin -dependent activation of a virtually ubiquitous transcription factor .
activity of the kappa b enhancer of the interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain in somatic cell hybrid be accompany by the nuclear localization of nf-kappa b .
the two nuclear protein nf-kappa b ( consist of subunit p50 an dp65 ) and the dna-binding subunit of nf-kappa b ( p50 ) by itself , also call kbf1 , be constitutively express and localized in the nucleus of the human t-cell line iarc 301.5 .
in order to define the role of these two factor , which bind to the same kappa b enhancer , in transcription activation we have prepare somatic cell hybrid between iarc 301.5 and a murine myeloma .
most hybrid express both kbf1 and nf-kappa b in their nucleus , but one hybrid express only kbf1 .
the kappa b enhancer of the gene encode the interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) receptor alpha chain ( il-2r alpha ) be functional only in the hybrid express nuclear nf-kappa b .
these finding show that nuclear nf-kappa b be necessary to activate the kappa b enhancer , while kbf1 by itself be not sufficient .
we propose that kbf1 be a competitive inhibitor of nf-kappa b and discuss how these factor may be involve in the transient expression of il-2 and il-2 alpha gene during the immune response .
regulation of lymphoid-specific immunoglobulin mu heavy chain gene enhancer by ets-domain protein .
the enhancer for the immunoglobulin mu heavy chain gene ( igh ) activate a heterologous gene at the pre-b cell stage of b lymphocyte differentiation .
a lymphoid-specific element , microb , be necessary for enhancer function in pre-b cell .
a microb binding protein be encode by the pu.1/spi-1 proto-oncogene .
another sequence element , microa , be identify in the mu enhancer that bind the product of the ets-1 proto-oncogene .
the microa motif be require for microb-dependent enhancer activity , which suggest that a minimal b cell-specific enhancer be compose of both the pu.1 and ets-1 binding site .
co-expression of both pu.1 and ets-1 in nonlymphoid cell trans-activated reporter plasmid that contain the minimal mu enhancer .
these result implicate two member of the ets family in the activation of igh gene expression .
camp -dependent regulation of proenkephalin by jund and junb : positive and negative effect of ap-1 protein .
we demonstrate that jund , a component of the ap-1 transcription factor complex , activate transcription of the human proenkephalin gene in a fashion that be completely dependent upon the camp-dependent protein kinase , protein kinase a .
activation of proenkephalin transcription by jund be dependent upon a previously characterize camp - , phorbol ester - , and ca(2+) -inducible enhancer , and jund be show to bind the enhancer a a homodimer .
another component of the ap-1 transcription complex , junb , be show to inhibit activation mediate by jund .
a a homodimer junb be unable to bind the enhancer ; however in the presence of c-fos , high-affinity binding be observe .
furthermore , jund be show to activate transcription of gene link to both camp and phorbol ester response element in a protein kinase a -dependent fashion , far blur the distinction between these response element .
these result demonstrate that the transcriptional activity of an ap-1-related protein be regulate by the camp -dependent second-messenger pathway and suggest that jund and other ap-1-related protein may play an important role in the regulation of gene expression by camp -dependent intracellular signaling pathway .
the peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor alpha ( pparalpha ) ligand wy 14,643 do not interfere with leukotriene b4 induced adhesion of neutrophil to endothelial cell .
peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor ( ppar ) control discrete gene involve in fatty acid and lipid metabolism .
recently , it be suggest that activation of the alpha isoform of ppar by the potent proinflammatory mediator leukotriene b4 ( ltb4 ) enhance degradation of this eicosanoid , offersuggesting a new aspect of down-regulation of inflammation .
here , we study whether pparalpha activation ( by mean of the selective agonist wy 14,643 ) of endothelial cell , pivotal in the regulation of inflammatory response , interfere with ltb4 induce adhesion of pmn neutrophil granulocyte in vitro .
when endothelial cell be treat with wy 14,643 prior to activation with ltb4 ( or fmlp , il-1beta or tnfalpha , a control ) we could not document any effect on the number of adhering pmn or duration of the response .
thus , this study provide no evidence indicate a regulatory function of pparalpha in ltb4 induced adhesive interaction between endothelial cell and neutrophil
involvement of phospholipase d in the activation of transcription factor ap-1 in human t lymphoid jurkat cell .
the induction of the ap-1 transcription factor have be ascribe to the early event lead to t lymphocyte activation .
we have examine the possibility that stimulation of phospholipase d ( pld ) may regulate activation of transcription factor ap-1 in human t cell by transfecting human t lymphocyte jurkat cell with a plasmid contain an ap-1 enhancer element and a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene .
we have detect activatable pld in jurkat cell , and we have find that addition of phosphatidic acid ( pa ) , the physiologic product of pld action on phospholipid , be rapidly incorporate into jurkat cell and lead to activation of transcription factor ap-1 .
treatment of jurkat cell with anti-cd3 mab activate both pld and transcription factor ap-1 .
wortmannin , an inhibitor of receptor-coupled pld activation , block the anti-cd3 -induced increase in both pld activity and ap-1 enhancer activity .
we find a good correlation in the transfected cell between pld activation and induction of ap-1 enhancer activity under different experimental condition .
furthermore , ethanol , an inhibitor of the pld pathway , block the anti-cd3-stimulated ap-1 enhancer activity .
however , this anti-cd3 -mediated response be not inhibit by neomycin , an inhibitor of phosphoinositide hydrolysis .
the increase in ap-1 enhancer activity induce by pa or anti-cd3 mab be efficiently abrogate by the presence of propranolol , an inhibitor of pa phosphohydrolase and protein kinase c ( pkc ) .
furthermore , the pa - and the anti-cd3 -induced increase in ap-1 enhancer activity be block by the presence of pkc inhibitor or by pkc down-regulation .
these data indicate that pld stimulation can activate the transcription factor ap-1 in t lymphocyte , and suggest that the induction of ap-1 enhancer factor activity by pa be mediate via pkc stimulation , either through a direct activating effect of pa or through pa -derived diacylglycerol formation .
these data also provide evidence for a role of pld -derived lipid in the induction of ap-1 enhancer activity result from stimulation of the tcr/cd3 complex , suggest that increase pld activity can play an important role in t lymphocyte activation .
the human myelomonocytic cell line u-937 a a model for study alteration in steroid-induced monokine gene expression : marked enhancement of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated interleukin-1 beta messenger rna level by 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 .
the active metabolite of vitamin d , 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 [ 1,25-(oh)2d3 ] , be a potent regulator of human monocyte/macrophage function in vitro .
to establish a model for 1,25-(oh)2d3 regulation of human monocyte monokine synthesis , three human cell line ( u-937 , thp-1 , and hl-60 ) be examine for : 1 ) the presence of functional 1,25-(oh)2d3 receptor ; 2 ) the accumulation of interleukin-1 beta ( il-1 beta ) mrna and il-1 beta protein in response to lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) ; and 3 ) the regulation of this response by 1,25-(oh)2d3 .
all three cell line express vitamin d receptor and have increase level of il-1 beta mrna in response to lp .
preincubation of cell with 1,25-(oh)2d3 augment il-1 beta mrna level only in u-937 and hl-60 cell .
from these data , and take into consideration their state of differentiation and relative ease of culture , u-937 be choose over hl-60 and thp-1 a the cell line we far characterize .
in u-937 cell , optimum time and dose of pretreatment with 1,25-(oh)2d3 be determine to be 12-24 h at a receptor saturating concentration of 1,25-(oh)2d3 ( 10 nm ) .
preincubation of cell with 1,25-(oh)2d3 have no effect on the time course of il-1 beta mrna appearance in response to lp .
however , exposure of u-937 cell to 1,25-(oh)2d3 increase by 200 % the level of il-1 beta mrna detect and decrease by three order of magnitude the concentration of lp require to achieve steady state mrna level equivalent to those observe in u-937 cell not preincubated with the hormone.2+o
ex vivo activation of tumor-draining lymph node t cell reverse defect in signal transduction molecule .
the adoptive transfer of tumor-draining lymph node ( ln ) t cell activate ex vivo with anti-cd3 and interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) mediate the regression of the poorly immunogenic murine melanoma d5 .
the efficacy of the activate ln cell be augment when the sensitize tumor be a genetically modify variant ( designate d5g6 ) that secrete granulocyte/macrophage-colony-stimulating factor .
in contrast to anti-cd3/ il-2 - activated ln cell , adoptive transfer of freshly isolate tumor-draining ln t cell have no therapeutic activity .
to determine whether the acquisition of antitumor function during ex vivo activation be associate with modification in signal transduction capacity , the protein tyrosine kinase p56lck and p59fyn and protein of the nf-kappab family be analyze in tumor-draining ln t cell .
the level of p56lck and p59fyn be low in tumor-draining than in normal ln t cell and production of tyrosine -phosphorylated substrate be markedly depress follow anti-cd3 stimulation .
after 5-day anti-cd3 /il-2 activation , level of p56lck and p59fyn and protein tyrosine kinase activity increase .
interestingly , the level of p56lck , p59fyn , and tyrosine kinase activity be high in activate t cell derive from ln that drain d5g6 than they be in those from d5 tumor .
in contrast , the cytoplasmic level of c-rel and rel a be normal in freshly isolate tumor-draining ln , a be nuclear kappab dna-binding activity induce by anti-cd3 mab or phorbol myristate acetate .
stimulation of activate ln cell with d5 tumor cell induce the nuclear translocation of nf-kappab .
these finding indicate that the recovery of protein mediate signal transduction through the t cell receptor/cd3 complex in ln t cell activate ex vivo be associate with the acquisition of antitumor function .
initiation binding repressor , a factor that bind to the transcription initiation site of the histone h5 gene , be a glycosylated member of a family of cell growth regulator [ corrected ] [ publish erratum appear in mol cell biol 1996 feb ; 16 ( 2 ) : 735 ]
initiation binding repressor [ correct ] ( ibr ) be a chicken erythrocyte factor ( apparent molecular mass , 70 to 73 kda ) that bind to the sequence span the transcription initiation site of the histone h5 gene , repress it transcription .
a variety of other cell , include transform erythroid precursor , do not have ibr but a factor refer to a ibf ( 68 to 70 kda ) that recognize the same ibr site .
we have clone the ibr cdna and study the relationship of ibr and ibf .
ibr be a 503-amino-acid-long acidic protein which be 99.0 % identical to the recently report human nrf-1/alpha-pal factor and highly related to the invertebrate transcription factor p3a2 and erected wing gene product ( ewg ) .
we present evidence that ibr and ibf be most likely identical protein , differ in their degree of glycosylation .
we have analyze several molecular aspect of ibr/f and show that the factor associate a stable homodimers and that the dimer be the relevant dna-binding specie .
the evolutionarily conserve n-terminal half of ibr/f harbor the dna-binding/dimerization domain ( out limit , 127 to 283 ) , one or several casein kinase ii site ( 37 to 67 ) , and a bipartite nuclear localization signal ( 89 to 106 ) which appear to be necessary for nuclear targeting .
bind site selection reveal that the alternate rcgcrygcgy consensus constitute high-affinity ibr/f binding site and that the direct-repeat palindrome tgcgcatgcgca be the optimal site .
a survey of gene potentially regulate by this family of factor primarily reveal gene involve in growth-related metabolism .
transcriptional analysis of epstein-barr virus gene expression in ebv-positive gastric carcinoma : unique viral latency in the tumour cell .
although case-oriented evidence for an association of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) with gastric carcinoma have be accumulate recently , the interaction ( s ) between ebv and gastric epithelial cell is/are largely unknown .
in this study , we examine seven ebv -positive gastric carcinoma tissue for viral gene expression at the mrna level , from which study on the ebv oncogenicity in human epithelial cell will benefit .
reverse transcription-pcr analysis show that all seven ebv -positive tumour tissue constitutively express ebv nuclear antigen ( ebna ) 1 mrna , but not ebna2 mrna .
the ebna transcription be initiate from one of three ebna promoter , qp : by contrast , both cp and wp be silent , thus result in the lack of ebna2 mrna .
latent membrane protein ( lmp ) 2a mrna be detect in three of seven case ; however , neither lmp1 nor lmp2b mrna be detect in any of the tumour test .
transcript from the bamhi-a region of the viral genome be detectable in all case .
bzlf1 mrna and the product , an immediate-early gene for ebv replication , be not express in any of them , thereby suggest that the tumour cell carry ebv genome in a tightly latent form .
these finding far extend our previous data regard ebv latency in gastric carcinoma cell at the protein level , and have affirm that the programme of viral gene expression in the tumour more closely resemble ' latency i ' represent by burkitt 's lymphoma than ' latency ii ' represent by the majority of nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
mhc class ii signaling in b-cell activation [ see comment ]
the cognate interaction between t cell and antigen-presenting cell ( apc ) , mediate by major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii molecule , result in the delivery of activation signal to the apc .
these signal contribute to the expression of co-stimulatory activity by apc and have important consequence for cell effector function .
mhc class ii molecule also serve a receptor for b-cell stimulation by microbial superantigens .
in this review , paul scholl and raif geha discuss recent advance in our understanding of mechanism of mhc class ii signaling and analyse their role in human b-cell activation .
molecular action of prolactin in the immune system .
the immunoregulatory property of prolactin , a pituitary peptide hormone , have receive renewed attention .
the prolactin receptor , a member of the hematopoietin/cytokine receptor superfamily , be ubiquitously express by cell in the immune system .
certain subpopulation of lymphocyte synthesize and secrete biologically active prolactin , which suggest that prolactin can act a an autocrine and/or paracrine factor to modulate the activity of cell of the immune system .
this review focus on the molecular action of prolactin in the immune system .
emphasis be give to recent information about the molecular mechanism of prolactin receptor signal transduction , and the signal molecule and prolactin -inducible target gene that participate in these response .
in particular , the prolactin -inducible interferon regulatory factor-1 gene and it role in mediate diverse immune response .
the oct-2 transcription factor .
the oct-2 transcription factor be a member of the pou ( pit-oct-unc ) family of transcription factor and be express only in b lymphocyte and in neuronal cell but not in other cell type .
the primary rna transcript of the gene be subject to alternative splicing to yield different variant which can either activate or repress gene expression .
the form produce in b lymphocyte have a predominantly activating effect on gene expression whereas those produce in neuronal cell have a predominantly inhibitory effect and can repress the expression of both the herpes simplex virus immediate-early gene and the cellular tyrosine hydroxylase gene .
thus oct-2 play an important role in the regulation of cellular gene expression in both b cell and neuronal cell as well a in the control of viral latency .
calcineurin potentiate activation of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene in t cell : involvement of the conserve lymphokine element 0 .
granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) and interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) be produce by stimulation with phorbol-12-myristate acetate ( pma ) and calcium ionophore ( a23187 ) in human t cell leukemia jurkat cell .
the expression of gm-csf and il-2 be inhibit by immunosuppressive drug such a cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 .
early study on the il-2 gene expression show that overexpression of calcineurin ( cn ) , a ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase , can stimulate transcription from the il-2 promoter through the nf-at-binding site .
in this study , we obtain evidence that transfection of the cdna for cn a ( catalytic ) and cn b ( regulatory ) subunit also augment transcription from the gm-csf promoter and recover the transcription inhibit by csa .
the constitutively active type of the cn a subunit , which lack the auto-inhibitory and calmodulin-binding domain , act in synergy with pma to activate transcription from the gm-csf promoter .
we also find that the active cn partially replace calcium ionophore in synergy with pma to induce expression of endogenous gm-csf and il-2 .
by multimerizing the regulatory element of the gm-csf promoter , we find that one of the target site for the cn action be the conserve lymphokine element 0 ( cle0 ) , located at position between -54 and -40 .
mobility shift assay show that the cle0 sequence have an ap1-binding site and be associate with an nf-at-like factor , term nf- cle0 gamma .
nf- cle0 gamma binding be induce by pma /a23187 and be inhibit by treatment with csa .
these result suggest that cn be involve in the coordinate induction of the gm-csf and il-2 gene and that the cle0 sequence of the gm-csf gene be a functional analogue of the nf-at-binding site in the il-2 promoter , which mediate signal downstream of t cell activation .
il-2 gene expression and nf-kappa b activation through cd28 require reactive oxygen production by 5-lipoxygenase .
activation of the cd28 surface receptor provide a major costimulatory signal for t cell activation result in enhance production of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) and cell proliferation .
in primary t lymphocyte we show that cd28 ligation lead to the rapid intracellular formation of reactive oxygen intermediate ( roi ) which be require for cd28 -mediated activation of the nf-kappa b / cd28 -responsive complex and il-2 expression .
delineation of the cd28 signaling cascade be find to involve protein tyrosine kinase activity , follow by the activation of phospholipase a2 and 5-lipoxygenase .
our data suggest that lipoxygenase metabolite activate roi formation which then induce il-2 expression via nf-kappa b activation .
these finding should be useful for therapeutic strategy and the development of immunosuppressant target the cd28 costimulatory pathway .
dominant cytotoxic t lymphocyte response to the immediate-early trans-activator protein , bzlf1 , in persistent type a or b epstein-barr virus infection .
five healthy human leukocyte antigen-b8 ( hla-b8 ) -positive virus carrier be study to investigate the cd8+ cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) response to an hla-b8-restricted peptide , rakfkqllq , located in the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) immediate-early trans-activator protein , bzlf1 .
of the 5 virus carrier , 4 be infect with type a and 1 with type b ebv .
use limiting-dilution analysis of peripheral blood mononuclear cell , a high rakfkqllq -specific ctl precursor frequency be demonstrate after specific peptide or autologous lymphoblastoid cell line stimulation in both type a and type b ebv carrier .
the rakfkqllq -specific ctl precursor frequency in all 5 person be at least as dominant a those observe with two other ebv-associated , hla-b8-restricted latent epitope , flrgraygl and qakwrlqtl .
these finding show that healthy virus carrier maintain a high frequency of bzlf1 -specific memory t cell , potentially to control virus spread from lytically infected cell .
an intricate arrangement of bind site for the ets family of transcription factor regulate activity of the alpha 4 integrin gene promoter .
alpha 4 integrins mediate cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interaction that be critical for maturation and function of the immune system as well a differentiation of skeletal muscle .
here we examine molecular mechanism control the pattern of alpha 4 expression .
the activity of construct contain 5' deletion mutant of the alpha 4 gene promoter be compare in transfection assay into cell line that express alpha 4 and cell line that do not .
the sequence between position -42 and -76 base pair ( bp ) be require for efficient transcription in cell that express alpha 4 , but it show no activity in hela cell , which do not express alpha 4 .
three bind site for the ets family of transcription factor be find in this region : two adjacent site at position -50 and -54 bp and a more 5' site at position -67 bp .
use a series of construct contain deletion and mutation in this region , we find that the 3'-most site alone be sufficient for bind ga-binding protein alpha ( gabp alpha ) / gabp beta and for a low level of transcriptional activation .
when all three site be present , a second complex " a " be detect , which contain an unknown member of the ets family .
formation of complex a be cell-type specific and correlate with a high level of transcription .
deletion of the 5'-most ets site have no effect on binding to gabp alpha/gabp beta , but it eliminate a .
concomitant with this loss of a , a new ets-1-containing complex " c " appear .
complex c substitute efficiently for complex a in transcriptional activation .
we conclude that although neither of the two 5'-most ets site alone bind nuclear protein , they appear to act a modulators which control the pattern of ets protein that bind the alpha 4 gene promoter .
this arrangement of ets site , couple with the tissue- and developmental- specific expression of ets member , likely play a key role in define the pattern of alpha 4 integrin .
cross talk between cell death and cell cycle progression : bcl-2 regulate nfat -mediated activation .
bcl-2 -deficient t cell demonstrate accelerate cell cycle progression and increase apoptosis follow activation .
increase the level of bcl-2 retard the g0 --> s transition , sustain the level of cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p27kip1 , and repress postactivation death .
proximal signal transduction event and immediate early gene transcription be unaffected .
however , the transcription and synthesis of interleukin 2 and other delay early cytokine be markedly attenuate by bcl-2 .
in contrast , a cysteine protease inhibitor that also block apoptosis have no substantial affect upon cytokine production .
interleukin 2 expression require several transcription factor of which nuclear translocation of nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) and nfat -mediated transactivation be impair by bcl-2 .
thus , select genetic aberration in the apoptotic pathway reveal a cell autonomous coregulation of activation .
a central role for a single c-myb binding site in a thymic locus control region .
locus control region ( lcrs ) be powerful assembly of cis element that organize the action of cell-type-specific trans-acting factor .
a 2.3-kb lcr in the human adenosine deaminase ( ada ) gene first intron , which control expression in thymocytes , be compose of a 200-bp enhancer domain and extended flanking sequence that facilitate activation from within chromatin .
prior analysis have demonstrate that the enhancer contain a 28-bp core region and local adjacent augmentative cis element .
we now show that the core contain a single critical c-myb binding site .
in both transiently cotransfected human cell and stable chromatin-integrated yeast cell , c-myb strongly transactivated reporter construct that contain polymerized core sequence .
c-myb protein be strongly evident in t lymphoblast in which the enhancer be active and be localized within discrete nuclear structure .
fetal murine thymus exhibit a striking concordance of endogenous c-myb expression with that of mouse ada and human ada lcr -directed transgene expression .
point mutation of the c-myb site within the intact 2.3-kb lcr severely attenuate enhancer activity in transfections and lcr activity in transgenic thymocytes .
within the context of a complex enhancer and lcr , c-myb can act a an organizer of thymocyte-specific gene expression via a single bind site .
signalling via cd28 of human naive neonatal t lymphocyte .
accessory molecule play a crucial role in the development of the t cell response to antigenic challenge .
we have examine the role of cd28 in modulate the ' naive ' neonatal t cell response to anti-cd2 -mediated activation .
to compare the role of cd28 , neonatal and adult t cell be stimulate with a pair of mitogenic anti-cd2 antibody in the presence or absence of anti- cd28 moab .
with anti-cd2 alone , neonatal t cell proliferate slightly but produce no detectable il-2 , whereas adult t cell proliferate vigorously , with significant il-2 production .
costimulation with anti- cd28 moab greatly enhance the proliferative response of neonatal t cell to level equivalent to those of adult t cell , whereas adult t cell show only slight increase .
although il-2 secretion be increase in the presence of anti- cd28 moab , neonatal t cell il-2 production remain low than in adult .
in contrast , enhancement of il-2 mrna expression in neonate be similar to adult level .
anti- cd28 moab costimulation increase nf kappa b level in neonate , albeit to level low than that of adult .
the cellular mechanism govern the diminish proliferative response of neonatal t lymphocyte to anti-cd2 may therefore be due to decrease nf kappa b induction , reduce il-2 mrna expression and deficient il-2 production .
although anti- cd28 moab costimulation enhance all of the above signal , nf kappa b and il-2 level remain low than in adult , suggest the need for further activation requirement in the neonate .
immediate early and early lytic cycle protein be frequent target of the epstein-barr virus -induced cytotoxic t cell response .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , a human gamma-herpesvirus , can establish both nonproductive ( latent ) and productive ( lytic ) infection .
although the cd8+ cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) response to latently infected cell be well characterize , very little be know about t cell control over lytic infection ; this imbalance in our understanding belie the importance of virus-replicative lesion in several aspect of ebv disease pathogenesis .
the present work show that the primary cd8+ ctl response to ebv in infectious mononucleosis patient contain multiple lytic antigen-specific reactivity at level at least as high a those see against latent antigen ; similar reactivity be also detectable in ctl memory .
clonal analysis reveal individual response to the two immediate early protein bzlf1 and brlf1 , and to three ( bmlf1 , bmrf1 , and balf2 ) of the six early protein test .
in several case , the peptide epitope and hla-restricting determinant recognize by these ctls have be define , one unusual feature be the number of response restricted through hla-c allele .
the work strongly suggest that ebv -replicative lesion be subject to direct ctl control in vivo and that immediate early and early protein be frequently the immunodominant target .
this contrast with finding in alpha- and beta- herpesvirus system ( herpes simplex , cytomegalovirus ) where viral interference with the antigen-processing pathway during lytic infection render immediate early and early protein much less immunogenic .
the unique capacity of gamma-herpesvirus to amplify the viral load in vivo through a latent growth-transforming infection may have render these agent less dependent upon viral replication a a mean of successfully colonize their host .
replication of human immunodeficiency virus-1 in primary human t cell be dependent on the autocrine secretion of tumor necrosis factor through the control of nuclear factor-kappa b activation .
tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -alpha control t-cell activation and be a major inducer of human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -1 replication in chronically infected cell .
therefore , we have investigate it role in primary culture of hiv-infected human t lymphocyte by use neutralize anti-tnf-alpha antibody or tnf-alpha .
primary rest t lymphocyte produce tnf-alpha and support hiv replication after t-cell receptor activation .
addition of neutralize anti- tnf-alpha antibody drastically reduce p24 antigen release and prevent cd4+ cell depletion associate with infection .
anti- tnf-alpha also prevent nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation , and a good correlation between this inhibition and inhibition of hiv replication be observe .
moreover , supplement the culture with high dos of il-2 revert anti- tnf-alpha inhibition of cell proliferation but do not affect the inhibition of hiv p24 antigen release or nf-kappa b activation in the same culture .
moreover , anti- tnf-alpha inhibit hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) -driven transcription of a reporter gene in primary t cell in response to activation , either in the presence or the absence of hiv-1 tat .
our result support an important role for autocrine tnf-alpha secretion in control hiv replication in primary t cell because of it ability to maintain nf-kappa b elevated in the nucleus of t cell .
globin gene switching .
in vivo protein-dna interaction of the human beta-globin locus in erythroid cell express the fetal or the adult globin gene program .
to characterize the protein-dna interaction important for the developmental control of the human beta-globin locus , we analyze by in vivo dimethyl sulfate footprinting erythroid cell express either the fetal or the adult globin developmental program .
in the locus control region ( lcr ) of the beta-globin locus , in vivo footprint on nf-e2 ( or ap-1 ) and gata-1 motif remain the same regardless of whether the fetal or the adult globin gene be express .
in contrast , in vivo footprint on gt ( caccc ) motif differ between the cell express the fetal or the adult globin program .
in promoter region , the actively transcribe gene demonstrate extensive and consistent footprint over the canonical element , such a caccc and ccaat motif .
the adult globin expressing cell display more extensive footprint than the fetal globin expressing cell in the 3' regulatory sequence of both the agamma- and the beta- globin gene , suggest a role of these 3' element in beta-globin gene expression .
our result suggest that the bulk of protein-dna interaction that underlie the developmental control of globin gene take place in the gamma- and beta- globin gene promoter , and that gt motif of the beta-globin locus lcr may play a role in the developmental regulation of human beta-globin gene expression , perhaps by increase the probability of interaction of the lcr holocomplex with the fetal or the adult globin gene .
monochloramine inhibit phorbol ester -inducible neutrophil respiratory burst activation and t cell interleukin-2 receptor expression by inhibit inducible protein kinase c activity .
monochloramine derivative be long live physiological oxidant produce by neutrophil during the respiratory burst .
the effect of chemically prepare monochloramine ( nh2cl ) on protein kinase c ( pkc ) and pkc -mediated cellular response be study in elicited rat peritoneal neutrophil and human jurkat t cell .
neutrophil pretreated with nh2cl ( 30-50 microm ) show a marked decrease in the respiratory burst activity induce by phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) , which be a potent pkc activator .
these cell , however , be viable and show a complete respiratory burst upon arachidonic acid stimulation , which induce the respiratory burst by a pkc -independent mechanism .
the nh2cl -treated neutrophil show a decrease in both pkc activity and pma -induced phosphorylation of a 47-kda protein , which correspond to the cytosolic factor of nadph oxidase , p47 ( phox ) .
jurkat t cell pretreated with nh2cl ( 20-70 microm ) show a decrease in the expression of the interleukin-2 receptor alpha chain follow pma stimulation .
this be also accompany by a decrease in both pkc activity and nuclear transcription factor- kappab activation , also without loss of cell viability .
these result show that nh2cl inhibit pkc -mediated cellular response through inhibition of the inducible pkc activity .
detection of minimal residual disease in a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia by rt-pcr : necessity of chemotherapy follow atra therapy .
the pml/rar alpha fusion gene result from the t_(15;17) translocation be a specific marker for acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) .
we examine bone marrow cell by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) to detect residual pml/rar alpha mrna -containing cell follow treatment with all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) and cytotoxic chemotherapy in a patient with apl .
this rt-pcr assay can detect one leukemic cell in 10(2) normal cell in vitro .
we show that pml/rar alpha mrna be still detectable despite clinical remission follow atra treatment , but undetectable follow consolidation with chemotherapy .
these data show that this technique be useful for the identification of minimal residual disease in patient with apl and that cytotoxic chemotherapy follow atra therapy be require for the elimination of apl cell .
latent membrane protein-1 induce cyclin d2 expression , prb hyperphosphorylation , and loss of tgf-beta 1 -mediated growth inhibition in ebv-positive b cell .
the normal cell cycle be regulate by several molecule , such a the tumor-suppressor protein prb , the g1 cyclins , the cyclin-dependent kinase , and their inhibitor .
these regulator be target by negative growth regulatory signal , such a that provide by tgf-beta .
here , we show that the presence of either wild-type ebv or it transform latent membrane protein-1 ( lmp-1 ) result in the loss of tgf-beta 1 -mediated growth inhibition in human b cell .
chemical cross-linking with 125i-labeled tgf-beta 1 show an essentially normal tgf-beta receptor profile in ebv-positive and ebv-negative burkitt 's lymphoma cell line , and these receptor be show to be functional in transduce signal , a evidence by the tgf-beta 1 -mediated modulation of junb gene expression .
however , tgf-beta 1 do not induce dephosphorylation of prb in ebv ( or lmp-1 ) -positive cell a oppose to ebv -negative cell , suggest a dichotomy in the tgf-beta 1 signaling pathway lead to separable gene regulatory and growth inhibitory response .
furthermore , lmp-1 be find to induce the expression of cyclin d2 ; normal b cell or ebv -negative burkitt 's lymphoma cell do not express d-type cyclins .
take together , these data point to a potential mechanism underlie ebv -mediated b cell transformation whereby constitutive induction of key cell cycle regulator by lmp-1 can lead to prb hyperphosphorylation and uncontrolled cell proliferation .
the product of the murine homolog of the drosophila extra sex comb gene display transcriptional repressor activity .
the heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein k protein represent a novel class of protein that may act a docking platform that orchestrate cross-talk among molecule involve in signal transduction and gene expression .
use a fragment of k protein a bait in the yeast two-hybrid screen , we isolate a cdna that encode a protein whose primary structure have extensive similarity to the drosophila melanogaster extra sex comb ( esc ) gene product , esc , a putative silencer of homeotic gene .
the cdna that we isolate be identical to the cdna of the recently positionally clone mouse embryonic ectoderm development gene , eed .
like esc , eed contain six wd-40 repeat in the c-terminal half of the protein and be think to repress homeotic gene expression during mouse embryogenesis .
eed bind to k protein through a domain in it n terminus , but interestingly , this domain be not find in the drosophila esc .
gal4- eed fusion protein repress transcription of a reporter gene drive by a promoter that contain gal4-binding dna element .
eed also repress transcription when recruit to a target promoter by gal4- k protein .
point mutation within the eed gene that be responsible for severe embryonic development abnormality abolish the transcriptional repressor activity of eed .
result of this study suggest that eed -restricted homeotic gene expression during embryogenesis reflect the action of eed a a transcriptional repressor .
the eed -mediated transcriptional effect be likely to reflect the interaction of eed with multiple molecular partner , include k protein .
a serum response element and a bind site for nf-y mediate the serum response of the human thrombospondin 1 gene .
the expression of thrombospondin 1 ( tsp 1 ) , a member of the tsp gene family , be rapidly induce by growth factor .
we test the ability of human tsp 1 -chloramphenicol acetyltransferase construct to respond to serum in stably transfected nih-3t3 cell .
two transcriptional element in the tsp 1 promoter , a distal element at -1280 and a proximal element at -65 , be require for the response of the human tsp 1 gene to serum .
the distal element contain the 5'-cc(a_+_t)6gg-3' consensus sequence characteristic of a serum-response element ( sre ) .
deletion or mutation in this element reduce the serum response of the tsp 1 gene by 80-90 % .
in gel-shift assay , the -1280 element and the c-fos sre cross -competed , whereas their functional and bind mutant do not .
the proximal element contain the sequence 5'-ggccaatggg-3' , which closely resemble the consensus binding motif for the ccaat-binding factor nf-y ( cbf , cp1 , alpha cp1 ) .
deletion or mutation in this element also reduce the serum response by 80-90 % .
methylation interference analysis of the -65 region identify a pattern of contact with nuclear factor resemble that for nf-y , and an nf-y -binding site and the proximal tsp 1 element cross-competed in gel-shift assay , whereas their bind mutant do not .
finally , an abbreviate tsp 1 promoter/5'-flank , contain the sre- and nf-y- binding site , mediate a serum response that be close in magnitude to that of the parent promoter .
we conclude that the serum response of the human tsp 1 gene require the coordinate function of an sre- and nf-y- binding site .
monocytic cell type-specific transcriptional induction of collagenase .
interstitial collagenase ( mmp-1 ) , a metalloproteinase produce by resident and inflammatory cell during connective tissue turnover , cleave type i collagen fibril .
this catalytic event be rate limit in remodeling of tissue rich in fibrillar collagen such a the skin and lung .
the regulation of collagenase expression be cell-type specific ; bacterial lp and zymosan , a yeast cell wall derivative , be potent inducer of collagenase expression in macrophage , but do not alter fibroblast collagenase expression .
since promoter element control collagenase transcription in monocytic cell have not be previously define , we seek to delineate responsive cis-acting element of the collagenase promoter in transiently transfected human ( u937 ) and murine ( j774 ) monocytic cell line .
deletion construct contain as little a 72 bp of 5'_-flanking sequence of the collagenase promoter be sufficient for lps- or zymosan- mediated transcriptional induction , whereas phorbol inducibility exhibit an absolute requirement for upstream element include the polyoma enhancer a-binding protein-3 site ( -83 to -91 ) and ttca sequence ( -102 to -105 ) in both monocytic cell and fibroblast .
mutagenesis of the activator protein-1 [ ap-1 ] site at -72 abolish basal promoter activity and lp /zymosan inducibility , while mutagenesis of an nf-kappab-like site at -20 to -10 have no effect .
nuclear extract from lp - and zymosan -treated cell show strong ap-1 activity by gel-shift analysis , and supershift analysis show the ap-1 complex contain specific member of both the jun and fo gene family .
these data indicate that , in contrast to most lp effect , ap-1 , but not nuclear factor-kappab , mediate lp induction of collagenase transcription in macrophagelike cell .
furthermore , a compare to regulation by phorbol ester , collagenase induction in monocytic cell by cell wall derivative of bacteria or yeast be largely independent of upstream promoter sequence .
the promoter of the cd19 gene be a target for the b-cell-specific transcription factor bsap .
the cd19 protein be express on the surface of all b-lymphoid cell with the exception of terminally differentiate plasma cell and have be implicate a a signal-transducing receptor in the control of proliferation and differentiation .
here we demonstrate complete correlation between the expression pattern of the cd19 gene and the b-cell-specific transcription factor bsap in a large panel of b-lymphoid cell line .
the human cd19 gene have be clone , and several bsap -binding site have be map by in vitro protein-dna binding study .
in particular , a high-affinity bsap-binding site instead of a tata sequence be located in the -30 promoter region upstream of a cluster of heterogeneous transcription start site .
moreover , this site be occupy by bsap in vivo in a cd19-expressing b-cell line but not in plasma or hela cell .
this high-affinity site have be conserve in the promoter of both human and mouse cd19 gene and be furthermore show to confer b-cell specificity to a beta-globin reporter gene in transient transfection experiment .
in addition , bsap be find to be the only abundant dna-binding activity of b-cell nuclear extract that interact with the cd19 promoter .
together , this evidence strongly implicate bsap in the regulation of the cd19 gene .
the modulation of glucocorticoid receptor content by 3-o-methyl-d-glucose transport in human mononuclear leukocyte in obesity .
glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) and 3-o-methyl-d glucose ( 3-o-mg ) transport be determine in mononuclear leukocyte ( mnl ) from 11 abdominal obese subject , 10 pituitary-dependent cushing 's syndrome ( cushing 's disease ) and 10 healthy control .
use a whole-cell competitive binding assay and 3h-dexamethasone a tracer , mnl of abdominal obese subject be find to have 4855 +/- 1389 sites/cell which be significantly low ( p < 0.05 ) than control ( 6234 +/- 1568 sites/cell ) , although no significant difference be find in the mean serum cortisol level .
their mean kd ( affinity ) be also significantly low than that find in the healthy control ( obese kd : 2.92 +/- 0.84 nmol/l , control kd : 4.55 +/- 0.67 nm , p < 0.05 ) .
on the other hand , the receptor characteristic in cushing 's disease patient be within the normal range .
at the same time , 3-o-mg transport be determine in the same subject .
in cushing 's disease , 3-o-mg transport be within the normal range , whereas in abdominal obesity this value be significantly low than the healthy control ( abdominal obese : 31.90 +/- 8.20 ; control : 46.26 +/- 12.91 fmol/10(6) cell , min , p < 0.05 ) .
we also find a positive correlation between 3-o-mg transport and gr binding capacity in abdominal subject ( r = 0.89 , p < 0.001 ) , however we do not find such a correlation in cushing 's disease ( r = 0.60 , p > 0.05 ) .
these result indicate that , in abdominal obesity , the gr binding capacity in mnl be influence by the change in glucose transport .
induction of t cell anergy by high concentration of immunodominant native peptide be accompany by il-10 production and a block in jnk activity .
the ability to induce anergy in antigen-specific t cell have potential therapeutic value for alter pathologic immune response .
this study be undertake to far analyze change in cytokine production and intracellular signaling during anergy induction use high concentration of native peptide ligand of tetanus toxoid ( tt ) - and myelin basic protein ( mbp ) - specific human t cell line .
the tt -selected t cell line could be render unresponsive to it dominant epitope in a dose-dependent manner ( ic50 = 0.03 microg/ml ) .
the tt -selected line , as well a three t cell clone establish from this line , continue to produce ifn-gamma and significantly increase il-4 and il-10 production when anergy be induce with high concentration of the immunodominant epitope .
jnk enzymatic activity be block in anergized t cell .
the mbp -selected line could likewise be render unresponsive by incubation with supraoptimal concentration of immunodominant peptide and anergy induction be accompany by il-10 release .
both t cell line could be anergized by the autopresentation of native peptide since anergy be induce in culture lack fresh antigen-presenting cell .
this study show that the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade be block when anergy be induce to high concentration of soluble peptide .
copyright 1998 academic press .
epstein-barr virus-transforming protein latent infection membrane protein 1 activate transcription factor nf-kappab through a pathway that include the nf-kappab -inducing kinase and the ikappab kinase ikkalpha and ikkbeta .
the epstein-barr virus oncoprotein latent infection membrane protein 1 ( lmp1 ) be a constitutively aggregate pseudo-tumor necrosis factor receptor ( tnfr ) that activate transcription factor nf-kappab through two site in it c-terminal cytoplasmic domain .
one site be similar to activate tnfrii in associate with tnfr -associated factor traf1 and traf2 , and the second site be similar to tnfri in associate with the tnfri death domain interact protein tradd .
tnfri have be recently show to activate nf-kappab through association with tradd , rip , and traf2 ; activation of the nf-kappab -inducing kinase ( nik ) ; activation of the ikappab alpha kinase ( ikkalpha and ikkbeta ) ; and phosphorylation of ikappab alpha .
ikappab alpha phosphorylation on ser-32 and ser-36 be follow by it degradation and nf-kappab activation .
in this report , we show that nf-kappab activation by lmp1 or by each of it effector site be mediate by a pathway that include nik , ikkalpha , and ikkbeta .
dominant negative mutant of nik , ikkalpha , or ikkbeta substantially inhibit nf-kappab activation by lmp1 or by each of it effector site .
aberrant splicing of the tsg101 and fhit gene occur frequently in multiple malignancy and in normal tissue and mimic alteration previously describe in tumour .
intragenic deletion of tsg101 , the human homolog of a mouse gene ( tsg101 ) that act to suppress malignant cell growth , be report in human breast tumour .
we screen tsg101 for somatic mutation in dna and rna sample isolate from a variety of common human malignancy , ebv-immortalised b-cells , and normal lung parenchyma .
intragenic tsg101 deletion in rna transcript be frequently find in all type of sample .
analysis of dna fail to show genomic rearrangement correspond to transcript contain deletion in the same sample .
the breakpoints of most transcript deletion coincide with genuine or cryptic splice site sequence , suggest that they result from alternative or aberrant splicing .
a similar spectrum of transcript deletion have previously be describe in the putative tumour suppressor gene fhit .
we analyse fhit in the same series of rna sample and detect truncate fhit transcript frequently in both tumour and normal tissue .
in addition , transcript from tsg101 , fhit and seven other gene be analyse in rna isolate from normal peripheral blood lymphocyte .
large tsg101 and fhit intragenic transcript deletion be detect and these appear to be the predominant transcript in ' aged ' lymphocyte .
similar alteration be not detect in transcript of the other gene which be analyse .
our finding demonstrate that truncate tsg101 and fhit transcript be commonly detect in both normal and malignant tissue and that a significant fraction of these be likely to be the result of aberrant splicing .
while we can not exclude that alteration in tsg101 and fhit occur during cancer development , our data indicate that in this context the commonly observe transcript abnormality be misleading .
cag repeat length variation in sperm from a patient with kennedy 's disease .
use a modify sperm typing protocol , the mutation frequency of the cag repeat region at the androgen receptor locus have be measure use a rare semen sample from an individual with spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy ( sbma ) .
among 258 x chromosome-containing sperm , 19 % have a repeat number equal to the donor 's somatic dna ( 47 repeat ) , 66 % be expansion and 15 % be contraction .
the average expansion be 2.7 repeat .
more than half of the expansion involve one or two repeat ; the large be 11 repeat .
68 % of the contraction be also one or two repeat but six ( 16 % ) be very large ( 12-25 repeat ) .
one contraction generate an allele in an intermediate size range ( 33-39 repeat ) .
such allele have not be observe among more than 900 normal and sbma x-chromosomes that have be examine .
comparison of the sbma sperm typing result with mutation frequency data on normal allele support the hypothesis that trinucleotide repeat expansion may have a different molecular origin than contraction .
sp family member preferentially interact with the promoter proximal repeat within the htlv-i enhancer .
human t cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) encode the transactivator protein , tax , which facilitate viral transcription from three 21 bp repeated element within the u3 region of the long terminal repeat ( ltr ) .
examination of the basal factor interact with the 21 bp repeat element through electrophoretic mobility shift ( em ) analysis have demonstrate the formation of dna-protein complex common to each of the 21 bp repeat ( c1-c3 ) as well a three dna-protein complex specific to the promoter proximal ( pp ) repeat ( u1 ( u1a/u1b ) and u2 ; 1-4 ) .
these study have indicate that the individual repeat be not identical with respect to the cellular factor with which they interact .
em analysis utilize a series of mutate pp repeat element demonstrate that the nucleotide sequence requirement for u1 ( u1a/u1b ) and u2 formation be separable from those require for c1-c3 formation .
competition em analysis utilize sp1 and creb binding site oligonucleotides demonstrate that sp family member be critical component of u1 ( u1a/u1b ) and u2 and that atf/creb family member be critical component of c1-c3 .
em supershift analysis have demonstrate that sp1 be involve in u1a formation while sp3 be involve in u1b and u2 formation .
em analysis perform with nuclear extract from tax -expressing jurkat cell and htlv-i -transformed peripheral blood mononuclear cell demonstrate that tax prevent the formation of u1 ( u1a/u1b ) and u2 dna-protein complex .
therefore , tax appear to inhibit the interaction of sp family member with the pp repeat .
base on these observation , it be possible that the interaction of sp and atf/creb family member with the pp repeat during basal and tax -mediated transcription may play a critical role in viral gene expression during the initial stage of virus infection or during activation of a latent infection .
expression of the runt domain -encoding pebp2 alpha gene in t cell during thymic development .
the pebp2 alpha a and pebp2 alpha b gene encode the dna-binding subunit of a murine transcription factor , pebp2 , which be implicate a a t-cell-specific transcriptional regulator .
these two related gene share the evolutionarily conserve region encode the runt domain .
pebp2 alpha b be the murine counterpart of human aml1 , which be located at the breakpoints of the 8;21 and 3;21 chromosome translocation associate with acute myeloid leukemia .
northern ( rna ) blot of various adult mouse tissue reveal that the level of expression of both gene be most prominent in the thymus .
furthermore , transcript of pebp2 alpha a and mouse aml1/ pebp2 alpha b be detect in t lymphocyte in the thymus from day 16 embryo and newborn , as well a 4-week-old adult mouse , by in situ hybridization .
the expression of the gene persist in peripheral lymph node of adult mouse .
the transcript be detect in all the cd4- cd8- , cd4+ cd8+ , cd4+ cd8- , and cd4- cd8+ cell population .
the result indicate that both gene be express in t cell throughout their development , support the notion that pebp2 be a t-cell-specific transcription factor .
transcript of mouse aml1/ pebp2 alpha b be also detect in day 12 fetal hematopoietic liver and in the bone marrow cell of newborn mouse .
the implication of mouse aml1/ pebp2 alpha b expression in hematopoietic cell other than those of t-cell lineage be discuss in relation to myeloid leukemogenesis .
prolactin and interleukin-2 receptor in t lymphocyte signal through a mgf-stat5-like transcription factor .
the cell surface receptor for prl and interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) be structurally distinct , but share regulatory task in t lymphocyte .
they can stimulate proliferation and activate transcription of over-lapping set of gene of t cell .
prl and il-2 receptor activation be both link to the jak/stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) pathway .
we investigate the ability of prl and il-2 to activate stat protein in different t cell line .
the dna binding specificity , the reactivity toward stat-specific antiserum , and the mol wt of il-2 - and prl -induced dna-binding protein in nb2 and c196 t cell line be investigate .
a comparison with the stat protein induce by interferon-gamma , prl , and il-6 in t47d mammary tumor cell be make .
we find that these parameter be indistinguishable for one of the prl- and il-2- induced factor .
a transcription factor closely related to mammary gland factor-stat5 be rapidly activate upon interaction of il-2 and prl with their respective receptor .
activation of a second protein related to stat1 be also observe .
our result emphasize the role of prl a a regulator of the immune response and indicate that the stat factor mammary gland factor-stat5 and stat1 play a role in the regulation of gene expression during t cell development .
mechanism involve in the inhibition of growth of a human b lymphoma cell line , b104 , by anti-mhc class ii antibody .
the mechanism involve in the inhibition of growth of a human b lymphoma cell line , b104 , by anti-mhc class ii antibody ( ab ) be compare with those in anti-igm ab -induced b104 growth inhibition .
two anti-mhc class ii ab , l227 and 2.06 , inhibit the growth of b104 cell , although 2.06 , but not l227 , need to be far cross-link with a goat anti-mouse igg ab ( gam ) to show the effect .
l227 induce an increase in intracellular free ca2+ concentration ( [ ca2+ ]i ) from the intracellular pool and little or no protein tyrosine phosphorylation , phosphatidyl inositol turnover , or expression of egr-1 mrna , whereas 2.06 plus gam induce an increase in [ ca2+ ]i from both the intracellular and , in particular , the extracellular pool .
the inhibition of b104 cell growth induce by anti-mhc class ii ab be ca(2+) -independent and not inhibit by actinomycin d or cyclosporin a , and cell cycle arrest at the g2/m interphase be not observe .
these feature be very different from those observe in b104 cell death induce by anti-igm ab .
neither dna fragmentation nor the morphology of apoptosis be observe .
these finding demonstrate that cross-linking of mhc class ii molecule transduce the negative signal through intracellular mechanism different from those present in the cross-linking of surface igm .
the regulation of hiv by retinoic acid correlate with cellular expression of the retinoic acid receptor .
objective : to analyze the effect of retinoic acid ( ra ) on hiv-1 expression and correlate this effect with expression level of ra receptor ( rars ) in t-lymphoid and monocytoid cell line .
design and method : the effect of all-trans and 9-cis ra on hiv-1 production in t-lymphoid ( h9 , cem ) and monocytoid ( u937 , thp-1 ) cell line be measure during acute and chronic infection .
the expression level of human rar alpha ( hrar alpha , receptor for all-trans ra ) and the human retinoid-x receptor alpha ( hrxr alpha receptor for 9-cis ra ) be determine by northern blot analysis .
result : both all-trans and 9-cis ra inhibit virus replication in hiv-1 iiib-infected monocytoid cell , in the presence and absence of the co-stimulatory agent phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) .
the retinoids have weak or no stimulatory effect on hiv production by t-cell line .
hiv production by pma -stimulated t-cell line be inhibit by these retinoids .
the 9-cis ra be generally more effective than all-trans ra in inhibit hiv production and in combination generally more effective than the single agent alone .
human rar alpha be express in h9 , u937 and thp-1 cell , but almost undetectable in cem cell .
human rxr alpha be significantly express in u937 and thp-1 cell , weakly express in h9 cell and not detectable in cem cell .
after stimulation by pma , rxr alpha expression increase in h9 and u937 cell but not in cem cell .
human rar alpha expression be unchanged in h9 and cem cell , and elevate in u937 cell , after pma stimulation .
conclusion : the effect of ra on hiv-1 expression be cell-type-dependent and partially correlate with cellular expression of rars .
endogenous or exogenously administer ra may have a significant role in hiv regulation .
anti-immunoglobulin m activate nuclear calcium /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ii in human b lymphocyte .
we and others have previously show that the nuclear protein , ets-1 , be phosphorylated in a calcium-dependent manner after ligation of immunoglobulin ( ig ) m on b lymphocyte .
a this phosphorylation be independent of protein kinase c activity , we test whether a calcium /calmodulin-dependent protein kinase ( cam kinase ) might phosphorylate the ets-1 protein after elevation of intracellular free calcium concentration .
the dephosphorylated form of ets-1 have be show to bind to chromatin , suggest that the operative kinase should be detectable in the nucleus .
we prepare nuclear extract from two human b cell line in which increase intracellular free calcium level correlate with increase phosphorylation of the ets-1 protein .
activity of the cam kinase be determine use a synthetic peptide substrate both in the absence and presence of an inhibitor specific for the cam kinase family , kn-62 .
stimulation of cell with anti-igm lead to increase activity of a nuclear kinase that could phosphorylate the peptide , and this activity be reduce by 10 microm kn-62 .
kinase activity be reduce in lysates preadsorbed use an antibody specific for cam kinase ii .
two-dimensional phosphopeptide map of the ets-1 protein from cell incubate with ionomycin or anti-igm contain two unique phosphopeptides that be absent in untreated cell .
incubation of isolate ets-1 protein with purify cam kinase ii produce phosphorylation of peptide that migrate identically to those find in cell incubate with either anti-igm or ionomycin .
these data suggest a model of signal transduction by the antigen receptor on b lymphocyte in which increase intracellular free calcium can rapidly activate nuclear cam kinase ii , potentially result in phosphorylation and regulation of dna-binding protein .
positive regulator of the lineage-specific transcription factor gata-1 in differentiating erythroid cell .
the zinc finger transcription factor gata-1 be a major regulator of gene expression in erythroid , megakaryocyte , and mast cell lineage .
gata-1 bind to wgatar consensus motif in the regulatory region of virtually all erythroid cell-specific gene .
analysis with culture cell and cell-free system have provide strong evidence that gata-1 be involve in control of globin gene expression during erythroid differentiation .
target mutagenesis of the gata-1 gene in embryonic stem cell have demonstrate it requirement in normal erythroid development .
efficient rescue of the defect require an intact gata element in the distal promoter , suggest autoregulatory control of gata-1 transcription .
to examine whether gata-1 expression involve additional regulatory factor or be maintain entirely by an autoregulatory loop , we have use a transient heterokaryon system to test the ability of erythroid factor to activate the gata-1 gene in nonerythroid nucleus .
we show here that proerythroblasts and mature erythroid cell contain a diffusible activity ( tag ) capable of transcriptional activation of gata-1 and that this activity decrease during the terminal differentiation of erythroid cell .
nucleus from gata-1 -mutant embryonic stem cell can still be reprogrammed to express their globin gene in erythroid heterokaryons , indicate that de novo induction of gata-1 be not require for globin gene activation follow cell fusion .
phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase couple the interleukin-2 receptor to the cell cycle regulator e2f .
cell cycle progression initiate by interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) in t cell be critical for lymphoproliferation and an immune response .
phosphatidyl inositol 3-kinase ( pi3k ) be activate by il-2 .
however , nuclear target for pi3k be not know .
here we identify the cell cycle regulator e2f a an il-2 target in t lymphocyte and pi3k a the critical signaling pathway .
we eliminate both stat5 and raf /mek pathway from e2f regulation .
protein kinase b ( pkb ) be activate by il-2 via pi3k .
the expression of an active pkb be sufficient to induce e2f activity .
inhibition of pi3k inhibit phosphorylation of rb , induction of cyclin d3 , and degradation of p27kip1 .
these result establish a crucial pi3k / pkb -mediated link between the il-2 teceptor and the cell cycle machinery .
sp3 mediate transcriptional activation of the leukocyte integrin gene cd11c and cd11b and cooperate with c-jun to activate cd11c .
the leukocyte integrin gene cd11c and cd11b be express predominately in myelomonocytic cell .
in previous experiment , the -70 to -65 and -121 to -103 region of the cd11c promoter and the -66 to -59 region of the cd11b promoter be show to be essential for sp1- mediated activation of these gene .
in vivo genomic footprinting have also reveal cell-specific binding of protein , presumably sp1 , to these region .
in this study , electrophoretic mobility shift analysis show that the sp1 -related factor , sp3 , also bind at or near these same region .
cotransfection of sp3 along with cd11c promoter -luciferase construct into sp-deficient drosophila schneider 2 cell show that sp3 could activate the cd11c promoter .
deletion of both the -70 to -65 and -121 to -103 region of the cd11c promoter result in the loss of activation by sp3 .
both site show activation by sp3 ; however , the -70 to -65 region be more responsive to sp3 than to sp1 .
similar transfection analysis of the -66 to -59 region of the cd11b promoter show sp3 -dependent expression .
far , cotransfection analysis in drosophila cell show that sp3 , a be previously show for sp1 , also synergizes with c-jun to activate cd11c .
antisense experiment that knock out endogenous sp3 expression in the myelomocytic cell line , hl60 , reveal that sp3 participate in activation of the cd11c and cd11b promoter in vivo .
regulation of human epsilon germline transcription : role of b-cell-specific activator protein .
germline transcript initiate from promoter upstream of the immunoglobulin switch region , and be necessary to target the appropriate switch region for recombination and switching .
different cytokine activate transcription at the appropriate germline promoter .
because bind site for b-cell-specific activator protein ( bsap ) be located upstream of several switch region in the immunoglobulin heavy chain gene cluster , bsap might play a role in the regulation of germline transcription and isotype switching .
we investigate whether bsap play a role in the transcriptional regulation of the epsilon germline promoter in human b cell .
our result show that bsap play a role in both il-4 -dependent induction and cd40 -mediated upregulation of human epsilon germline transcription .
bsap be unique among the transcription factor that regulate epsilon germline expression , because it be b cell specific , and be at the merging point of two signalling pathway that be critical for ige switching .
synthetic glucocorticoid that dissociate transactivation and ap-1 transrepression exhibit antiinflammatory activity in vivo .
some of the most potent antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive agent be synthetic glucocorticoid .
however , major side effect severely limit their therapeutic use .
the development of improved glucocorticoid-based drug will require the separation of beneficial from deleterious effect .
one possibility toward this goal be to try to dissociate two main activity of glucocorticoid , i.e. transactivation and transrepression .
screening of a library of compound use transactivation and ap-1 transrepression model in transiently transfected cell identify dissociate glucocorticoid , which exert strong ap-1 inhibition but little or no transactivation .
importantly , despite high ligand binding affinity , the prototypic dissociate compound , ru24858 , act a a weak agonist and do not efficiently antagonize dexamethasone-induced transcription in transfected cell .
similar result be obtain in hepatic htc cell for the transactivation of the endogenous tyrosine amino transferase gene ( tat ) , which encode one of the enzyme involve in the glucocorticoid-dependent stimulation of neoglucogenesis .
to investigate whether dissociate glucocorticoid retain the antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive potential of classic glucocorticoid , several in vitro and in vivo model be use .
indeed , secretion of the proinflammatory lymphokine interleukin-1beta be severely inhibit by dissociate glucocorticoid in human monocytic thp 1 cell .
moreover , in two in vivo model , these compound exert an antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive activity a potent a that of the classic glucocorticoid prednisolone .
these result may lead to an improvement of antiinflammatory and immunosuppressive therapy and provide a novel concept for drug discovery .
modulation of transcription factor nf kappa b activity by intracellular glutathione level and by variation of the extracellular cysteine supply .
hiv -infected individual and siv -infected rhesus macaque have , on the average , decrease plasma cysteine and cystine concentration and decrease intracellular glutathione level .
we now show that a depletion of intracellular glutathione in a human t cell line ( molt-4 ) inhibit the activation and nuclear translocation of the transcription factor nf kappa b , whereas incubation with increase extracellular concentration of cysteine inhibit the dna-binding and transactivating activity of nf kappa b .
because inhibition of dna-binding activity be associate with increase intracellular glutathione disulfide level and gssg can be show to inhibit the dna-binding activity directly in cell-free system , our study suggest that gssg be a physiologically relevant inhibitor in intact cell also .
nf kappa b control many immunologically important gene , so our study suggest that the immune system may be sensitive not only against a cysteine and glutathione deficiency but also against an excess of cysteine .
regulation of cd14 expression during monocytic differentiation induce with 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 .
cd14 , a monocyte/macrophage receptor for the complex of lp and lp binding protein , be a differentiation marker for the monocyte/macrophage lineage .
we have analyze the regulation of cd14 expression during 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( vitd3 ) -induced monocytic differentiation .
use facs , northern blotting , and nuclear run-on analysis , we demonstrate that the up-regulation of cd14 expression during monocytic cell maturation be regulate mainly at the level of gene transcription , and that new protein synthesis be require for cd14 induction .
we have recently clone the cd14 5' upstream sequence and demonstrate it tissue-specific promoter activity .
use stable transfection of the monocytoid u937 cell line with a series of deletion mutant of the cd14 5' upstream sequence couple to a reporter gene construct , we show that bp -128 to -70 be the critical region for the induction of cd14 expression .
this region contain two bind site for the sp1 transcription factor .
a 3-bp mutation at the distal sp1-binding site not only eliminate sp1 interaction , but also abolish most of the vitd3 induction of cd14 expression .
electrophoretic mobility shift analysis do not detect a direct interaction of the cd14 distal sp1-binding site with the vitamin d3 receptor and it partner , the retinoid x receptor .
these data demonstrate that vitd3 induce cd14 indirectly through some intermediary factor , and suggest a critical role for sp1 in this process .
identification of an i kappa b alpha-associated protein kinase in a human monocytic cell line and determination of it phosphorylation site on i kappa b alpha .
nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) be stored in the cytoplasm a an inactive form through interaction with i kappa b .
stimulation of cell lead to a rapid phosphorylation of i kappa b alpha , which be presume to be important for the subsequent degradation .
we have recently report the establishment of a lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -dependent cell-free activation system of nf-kappa b in association with the induction of i kappa b alpha phosphorylation .
in this study , we have identify a kinase in cell extract from the lp -stimulated human monocytic cell line , thp-1 , that specifically bind and phosphorylates i kappa b alpha .
lp stimulation transiently enhance the i kappa b alpha -bound kinase activity in thp-1 cell .
mutational analysis of i kappa b alpha and competition experiment with the synthetic peptide identify major phosphorylation site by the bind kinase a ser and thr residue in the c-terminal acidic domain of i kappa b alpha .
moreover , we show that the peptide , correspond to the c-terminal acidic domain of i kappa b alpha , block the lp -induced nf-kappa b activation as well a inducible phosphorylation of endogenous i kappa b alpha in a cell-free system use thp-1 cell .
these result suggest that the bound kinase be involve in the signaling pathway of lp by induce the phosphorylation of the c-terminal region of i kappa b alpha and subsequent dissociation of the nf-kappa b . i kappa b alpha complex .
inhibition of p105 processing by nf-kappab protein in transiently transfected cell .
regulation of the transcription factor nf-kappab involve proteasome-mediated processing of the nf-kappab1 p105 precursor protein , which generate the p50 subunit of nf-kappab .
the processing of p105 occur constitutively in vivo but can be markedly enhance by various cellular activation agent , although the underlying regulatory mechanism be not yet clear .
in the present study , we demonstrate that signal-mediated induction of p105 processing in human t cell be associate with de novo synthesis of this precursor protein .
transient transfection study perform in cos7 cell reveal that the newly synthesize p105 protein appear to be more rapidly process compare to it accumulate form that be already associate with the process product p50 .
interestingly , the processing rate of p105 be markedly inhibit in cell co-transfected with p50 or other nf-kappab subunit , include rela and c-rel , that physically interact with p105 .
these finding suggest that the processing of p105 be subject to negative regulation by the various nf-kappab subunit .
we far demonstrate that p105 undergo degradation in lipopolysaccharide -stimulated human monocytic cell .
however , the inducible degradation of p105 be not couple with the generation of p50 .
together , these study demonstrate that the processing and inducible degradation of p105 be differentially regulate .
stimulation of the t-cell antigen receptor-cd3 complex signaling pathway by the tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor pervanadate be mediate by inhibition of cd45 : evidence for two interconnected lck/fyn- or zap-70- dependent signaling pathway .
the tyrosine phosphatase specific inhibitor pervanadate be a potent activator of t lymphocyte through induction of tyrosine phosphorylation and downstream event of the activation cascade .
use cd45- or cd3- negative variant of the jurkat leukemic t-cell line we show that the different biochemical event induce by pervanadate appear to be dependent on the presence at the cell surface of either cd45 or cd3 .
cd45 -dependent event such a tyrosine phosphorylation of shc , activation of nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) , transcription factor , and stimulation of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) promoter and of cd69 and cd25 surface expression parallel activation of the tyrosine kinase lck and fyn .
by contrast , stimulation of calcium influx , a cd3 -dependent event , parallel zap-70 activation .
the data demonstrate that the t-cell antigen receptor -cd3 ( tcr- cd3 ) complex be functionally link to two different protein tyrosine kinase ( ptk ) module with separate specific function and that cd45 may be an important regulator of this coupling .
transcription factor gata-1 and erythroid development .
in summary , we derive an experimental system that allow u to dissect the function of gata-1 in red cell development at a genetic level .
we have establish the essential nature of gata-1 during both primitive and definitive erythropoiesis .
by ablate the expression of the endogenous gata-1 gene , we be in a position to introduce a variety of construct that harbor subtle modification in flanking or protein-coding sequence .
we can now study regulatory region and functional domain of the protein in the context of a true erythroid environment , experiment that have not be possible heretofore .
although the assay involve the dramatic loss of red cell production , it should be possible to define important regulatory domain that can then be assay use less stringent system , such a cell-free extract for in vitro transcription .
the ideal situation would be analysis conduct in gata-1 -erythroid cell .
however , these cell have be impossible to generate give the requirement of gata-1 for epo receptor expression and red cell viability ( c. simon and s. orkin , unpublished observation ) .
it may be possible to produce such cell by first express the epo receptor under the influence of a constitutive promoter and then target the gata-1 gene .
if gata-1 -red cell be available , the analysis would involve the actual transcription of or chromatin structure surround the globin gene .
structure-function study of the gata-1 protein could be greatly simplify and a large number of mutant study .
however , the e cell system can be use a an alternative until target erythroleukemia cell become available .
other application involve the introduction of other gata-binding protein family member to determine whether they rescue the mutation .
if they can not , chimeric protein can be test to identify which amino acid distinguish the different family member .
we feel that these experiment be vital to understand the function of gata-1 during erythroid ontogeny .
how do gata-1 regulate red cell gene like globin or the epo receptor ? once we identify the functional domain of the gata-binding protein , we hope to learn what protein gata-1 bind to in the basic transcription machinery or in chromatin .
be gata-1 necessary for globin gene switching ? gata-1 may be modify differently during development so that the locus control region can interact with different globin promoter .
we may find that one region of the protein be require for embryonic expression and another for adult globin gene expression .
expression of egr-1 correlate with the transform phenotype and the type of viral latency in ebv genome positive lymphoid cell line .
in this paper we have investigate the role of egr-1 in b cell growth regulation by examine the gene expression in a panel of b cell line , include both ebv genome negative and ebv carry cell line .
egr-1 expression correlate with the cellular phenotype and the specific pattern of viral latency establish within the individual cell line .
thus , constitutive activation of egr-1 gene be invariably associate with unrestricted expression of viral latent gene in all group iii ebv genome carry cell line .
in contrast , egr-1 expression be abrogate in group i burkitt tumor cell , irrespective of the ebv genome carrying status .
activate viral gene expression associate with phenotypic conversion of group i cell line in to group ii or iii restore the egr-1 gene expression .
several form of egr-1 protein be find within the different group of cell line , and the binding activity to dna consensus sequence be investigate .
finally , time course analysis of egr-1 expression during the early step of ebv infection in vitro demonstrate that egr-1 be upregulated within minute from the initial interaction with the b lymphocyte .
il-2 -induced growth of cd8+ t cell prolymphocytic leukemia cell mediate by nf-kappab induction and il-2 receptor alpha expression .
the binding of interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) to it receptor on normal t cell induce nuclear expression of nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) , activation of the il-2 receptor ( il-2r ) alpha chain gene , and cell proliferation .
in the present study , the role of il-2r signaling in the growth of cd8+ t cell prolymphocytic leukemia ( t-pll ) cell have be investigate .
flow cytometry reveal that primary leukemia cell from a patient with cd8+ t-pll express il-2r alpha and beta chain , and the cell show a proliferative response and an increase in il-2ralpha expression on culture with exogeneous il-2 .
northern blot analysis fail to detect il-2 mrna , suggest that il-2 may act in a paracrine manner in vivo .
electrophoretic mobility-shift assay reveal that recombinant il-2 increase nf-kappab binding activity in nuclear extract of the leukemia cell , and northern blot analysis show that il-2 increase the abundance of mrna encode the nf-kappab component c-rel and kbf1 in these cell .
il-2 binding analysis demonstrate that il-2 markedly increase the number of low affinity il-2rs on the leukemia cell , without an effect on the number of high-affinity il-2rs .
these result show that il-2 be capable of induce the nuclear expression of nf-kappab in primary cd8+ t-pll cell , and that this effect be mediate , at least in part , at a pretranslational level
triggering of complement receptor cr1 ( cd35 ) and cr3 ( cd11b/cd18 ) induce nuclear translocation of nf-kappa b ( p50 /p65 ) in human monocyte and enhance viral replication in hiv-infected monocytic cell .
monocyte/macrophages may harbor hiv in a nonproductive fashion for prolonged period of time .
viral gene expression may be reactivate by stimulation of the cell with lp or cytokine such a tnf-alpha in vitro .
the effect of lp and tnf-alpha be mediate by their ability to induce nuclear translocation of the dna-binding heterodimer nf-kappa b ( p50 /p65 ) , which bind to a specific sequence in the hiv-long terminal repeat .
the present study demonstrate that triggering of complement receptor cr1 ( cd35 ) and cr3 ( cd11b/cd18 ) enhance viral replication in hiv-infected human monocytic cell .
monocytic cell line and normal peripheral blood monocyte be infect with hiv-1 in vitro and culture in the presence or absence of f(ab')2 fragment of monoclonal anti- cr1 or anti- cr3 ab or with c3 fragment .
stimulation of cr1 or cr3 induce a two- to fourfold increase in the amount of cell-associated and release p24 ag in cell culture that be equivalent to that observe in control culture trigger with lp .
we far observe that stimulation of cr1 or cr3 induce the nuclear translocation of nf-kappa b p50 /p65 in infected cell .
translocation of nf-kappa b p50 /p65 be also observe follow stimulation of cr1 or cr3 of uninfected peripheral blood monocyte from hiv-seronegative donor .
the amount of protein translocate be similar to that observe when cell be stimulate with rhtnf-alpha .
tnf-alpha do not mediate the translocation of nf-kappa b p50 /p65 induce by triggering of complement receptor .
take together , these observation suggest that hiv gene expression may be activate in infected monocyte through interaction of the cell with complement-opsonized particle and that enhance viral replication be associate with c3 receptor -mediated nuclear translocation of the nf-kappa b complex .
[ effect of antihypertensive therapy with captopril on gluco- and mineralo corticoid receptor of peripheral blood lymphocyte in hypertensive patient of various age ]
binding of 3h-dexamethasone and 3h-aldosterone by peripheral lymphocyte receptor be investigate in healthy person and hypertensive patient before and after 2-week captopril treatment .
the number of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid binding site be increase in hypertensive v normotensives .
the treatment with the ace inhibitor captopril lead to activation of hormone-receptor interaction .
there be a more marked rise of the number of receptor in middle-aged ( 44-55 year ) hypertensive v elderly ( 61-80 year ) subject after captopril treatment .
interleukin-7 can induce the activation of jak 1 , jak 3 and stat 5 protein in murine t cell .
the activation of janus protein tyrosine kinase ( jak ) and stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) protein have recently be link to the signal transduction mechanism of several cytokine .
il-7 be observe to induce a rapid and dose-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of jak 1 and jak 3 and concomitantly , the tyrosine phosphorylation and dna binding activity of multiple stat protein .
the stat protein utilize by il-7 be identical to those induce by il-2 and could be identify a various stat 5 isoforms .
moreover , the induction of both jak 1 and 3 , and stat 5 activity strongly correlate with the growth-promoting effect of il-7 , suggest that this signal transduction mechanism may play a key role in il-7 -induced proliferation .
differential autoregulation of glucocorticoid receptor expression in human t- and b- cell line .
regulation of glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) expression by it cognate ligand be examine in the glucocorticoid-sensitive human leukemic t-cell line 6tg1.1 and in the human b-cell line im-9 .
in contrast to the decrease in gr mrna see in im-9 cell after treatment with 1 microm dexamethasone for 16-18 h , treatment of 6tg1.1 cell result in an 8-fold increase in gr mrna , a determine by northern blot and rnase protection analysis , with a corresponding 3- to 4-fold increase in gr protein .
half-maximal induction of gr mrna and protein in 6tg1.1 cell be observe between 10-100 nm dexamethasone , and inclusion of 1 microm ru 38486 completely block the effect of 100 nm dexamethasone , demonstrate that positive autoregulation of gr expression in 6tg1.1 cell be a receptor-mediated response .
positive autoregulation of gr expression be also observe in glucocorticoid-resistant cem-c1 cell , which contain functional gr , but whose growth be unaffected by glucocorticoid .
thus , positive autoregulation be neither a consequence nor the sole cause of growth arrest .
the degree of negative autoregulation in im-9 cell and positive autoregulation in 6tg1.1 cell be unaffected by inhibition of protein synthesis with cycloheximide .
measurement of gr mrna turnover in 6tg1.1 cell treat with actinomycin-d reveal a half-life of 2.5 h , which be unaffected by dexamethasone treatment .
a similar half-life be determine in im-9 cell and be also unaffected by steroid treatment .
these result be consistent with the interpretation that glucocorticoid -mediated autoregulation of gr expression be a tissue-specific primary transcriptional response .
the mhc class ii transactivator ( ciita ) require conserve leucine charged domain for interaction with the conserve w box promoter element .
the class ii transactivator ciita be require for transcriptional activation of the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii gene .
aside from an n-terminal acidic transcriptional activation domain , little be know about how this factor function .
extensive mutagenesis of ciita be undertake to identify structural motif require for function .
the ability of mutant to activate a reporter gene under the control of mhc class ii conserved w-x-y or x-y regulatory element be determine .
two mutant display differential activity between the two promoter , activate transcription with the w-x-y but not the x-y element .
all mutant be test for their ability to interfere with wild-type ciita activity .
five ciita mutant construction be able to down-regulate wild-type ciita activity .
three of these mutant contain target disruption of potential functional motif : the acidic activation domain , a putative gtp -binding motif and two leucine charged domain ( lcd motif ) .
the other two contain mutation in region that do not have homology to describe protein .
the characterization of ciita mutant that be able to discriminate between promoter with or without the w box strongly suggest that ciita require such interaction for function .
the identification of lcd motif require for ciita function bring to light a previously undefined role of these motif in ciita function .
g(anh)mtetra , a natural bacterial cell wall breakdown product , induce interleukin-1 beta and interleukin-6 expression in human monocyte .
a study of the molecular mechanism involve in inflammatory cytokine expression [ publish erratum appear in j biol chem 1994 jun 17 ; 269 ( 24 ) : 16983 ]
it be believe that induction of cytokine expression by bacterial cell wall component play a role in the development and course of sepsis .
however , most attention have be focus on lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
we study the ability of n-acetylglucosaminyl-1,6-anhydro-n-acetylmuramyl-l-alanyl-d-_isoglutamyl-m-diaminopimelyl-d-alanine ( g(anh)mtetra ) , a naturally occur breakdown product of peptidoglycan that be produce by soluble lytic transglycosylase of escherichia coli , to induce cytokine expression in human monocyte .
g(anh)mtetra be find to strongly induce interleukin ( il ) -1 beta and il-6 mrna expression after 2 h and il-1 beta and il-6 protein secretion after 48 h of activation .
the increase in mrna accumulation be at least partly due to an increase in the transcription rate of the respective gene and be accompany by a strong induction of nuclear factor-kappa b and activator protein-1 transcription factor expression .
experiment use inhibitor of protein kinase c , protein kinase a , and tyrosine kinase-dependent pathway reveal that g(anh)mtetra -induced il-1 beta and il-6 mrna expression involve activation of an h7-inhibitable pathway .
by use the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide , it be show that g(anh)mtetra -induced il-6 mrna expression depend on the synthesis of new protein , whereas g(anh)mtetra -induced il-1 beta mrna accumulation do not .
when response to g(anh)mtetra be compare with those to lp and muramyldipeptide ( mdp ) , it be find that the optimal response to g(anh)mtetra induction be similar to that of lp but significantly high than the response to mdp .
furthermore , maximal g(anh)mtetra -induced il-1 beta and il-6 mrna expression could be enhance by co-stimulation with lp or mdp , suggest that different receptor and/or transduction pathway be involve .
these result indicate that g(anh)mtetra induce il-1 beta and il-6 expression in human monocyte suggest a possible role for g(anh)mtetra in the release of cytokine during sepsis .
transcription mediate by nfat be highly inducible in effector cd4+ t helper 2 ( th2 ) cell but not in th1 cell .
transcriptional factor of the nfat family play an important role in regulate the expression of several cytokine gene during the immune response , such a the gene for interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) and il-4 , among others .
upon antigen stimulation , precursor cd4+ t helper ( pth ) cell proliferate and differentiate into two population of effector cell ( eth1 and eth2 ) , each one express a specific pattern of cytokine that distinguish them from their precursor .
eth2 cell be the major source of il-4 , while gamma interferon be produce by eth1 cell .
here we have use reporter transgenic mouse to show that dna binding and transcriptional activity of nfat be transiently induce during the differentiation of pth cell into either eth1 or eth2 cell to mediate the expression of il-2 a a common growth factor in both pathway .
however , although nfat dna binding be similarly induce in both eth1 and eth2 cell upon antigen stimulation , only the nfat complex present in eth2 cell be able to mediate high-level transcription , and relatively little nfat transcriptional activity be induce in eth1 cell .
in contrast to activate pth cell , neither eth1 nor eth2 cell produce significant il-2 upon stimulation , but the high level of nfat transcriptional activity directly correlate with the il-4 production induce in response to antigen stimulation in eth2 cell .
these data suggest that activate nfat be involve in the effector function of eth2 cell and that the failure of eth1 cell to produce il-4 in response to an antigen be due , at least partially , to a failure to induce high-level transcription of the il-4 gene by nfat .
regulation of nfat could be therefore a critical element in the polarization to eth1 or eth2 .
involvement of egr-1 /rela synergy in distinguish t cell activation from tumor necrosis factor-alpha -induced nf-kappa b1 transcription .
nf-kappa b be an important transcription factor require for t cell proliferation and other immunological function .
the nf-kappa b1 gene encode a 105-kd protein that be the precursor of the p50 component of nf-kappa b .
previously , we and others have demonstrate that nf-kappa b regulate the nf-kappa b1 gene .
in this manuscript we have investigate the molecular mechanism by which t cell line stimulate with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and phytohemagglutin ( pha ) display significantly high level of nf-kappa b1 encoding transcript than cell stimulate with tumor necrosis factor-alpha , despite the fact that both stimulus activate nf-kappa b .
characterization of the nf-kappa b1 promoter identify an egr-1 site which be find to be essential for both the pma / pha -mediated induction as well a the synergistic activation observe after the expression of the rela subunit of nf-kappa b and egr-1 .
furthermore , egr-1 induction be require for endogenous nf-kappa b1 gene expression , since pma / pha -stimulated t cell line express antisense egr-1 rna be inhibit in their ability to upregulate nf-kappa b1 transcription .
our study indicate that transcriptional synergy mediate by activation of both egr-1 and nf-kappa b may have important ramification in t cell development by upregulating nf-kappa b1 gene expression .
induction of the cd11b gene during activation of the monocytic cell line u937 require a novel nuclear factor ms-2 [ publish erratum appear in j immunol 1999 jul 15 ; 163 ( 2 ) : 1091 ]
the differentiation of myeloid precursor into mature myelomonocytic cell be characterize by the induction of the gene encode the beta2 integrin cd11b .
the transcription factor sp1 and pu.1 prime the cd11b promoter , but the nature of the factor responsible for it inducible expression be unknown .
in addition to the cd11b gene , the homologous gene encode cd11a and cd11c also exhibit inducible expression during myeloid differentiation .
therefore , we compare the nucleotide sequence of the cd11a , cd11b , and cd11c gene promoter to identify common element that might contribute to inducible expression .
this analysis identify one such element repeat four time within the cd11b promoter .
mutation of these element indicate that two , ms-2beta and ms-2gamma , be critical to the induction of the cd11b gene during differentiation of the pro-monocytic cell line u937 .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicate that ms-2beta and ms-2gamma interact with nuclear factor that be induce during u937 differentiation .
these factor be detect at the time the cd11b promoter be activate .
the molecular mass of these factor be approximately 28 kda , and their dna binding characteristic be indistinguishable from those of the novel nuclear factor ms-2 .
take together , our data indicate that ms-2 mediate induction of the cd11b gene a cell of the monocytic lineage mature .
the presence of multiple potential bind site for ms-2 in the promoter region of a wide range of gene express in mature myeloid cell suggest this factor play a general role in myeloid differentiation .
control of nfatx1 nuclear translocation by a calcineurin -regulated inhibitory domain .
the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) regulate cytokine gene expression in t cell through cis-acting element located in the promoter of several cytokine gene .
nfatx1 , which be preferentially express in the thymus and peripheral blood leukocyte , be one of four member of the nfat family of transcription factor .
we have perform domain analysis of nfatx1 by examine the effect of deletion mutation .
we find that nfatx1 dna binding activity and interaction with ap-1 polypeptide be dependent on it central rel similarity region and that transcriptional activation be reduce by deletion of either it n-terminal domain or it c-terminal domain , suggest the presence of intrinsic transcriptional activation motif in both region .
we also identify a potent inhibitory sequence within it n-terminal domain .
we show that the inactivation of the inhibition be dependent on the activity of calcineurin , a calcium-calmodulin-dependent phosphatase .
we also show that calcineurin associate with the n-terminal domain of nfatx1 at multiple docking site and cause a reduction of size , indicative of dephosphorylation , in nfatx1 .
we have map the inhibitory activity to less than 60 residue , contain motif that be conserve in all nfat protein .
finally , we demonstrate that deletion in nfatx1 of the map 60 residue lead to it nuclear translocation independent of calcium signaling .
our result support the model propose that the n-terminal domain confer calcium -signaling dependence on nfatx1 transactivation activity by regulate it intracellular localization through a protein module that associate with calcineurin and be a target of it phosphatase activity .
temporal control of igh gene expression in develop b cell by the 3' locus control region .
the suggest role of the downstream 3' region act a a locus control region ( lcr ) , have allow comparison to be make between the regulation of the igh locus with other model system whose gene expression be govern by lcr activity .
here we summarize the importance of the igh 3' lcr and it putative functional role in igh gene expression and compare it with the 5' lcr regulatory region of the human beta-globin locus .
regulation of interleukin-1 beta production by glucocorticoid in human monocyte : the mechanism of action depend on the activation signal .
glucocorticoid be know to downregulate interleukin-1 beta production in monocytic cell by two different mechanims : direct inhibition of the gene transcription and destabilization of the preformed interleukin-1 beta mrna .
now we have examine the effect of the nature of the monocyte activating signal on these two inhibitory mechanims .
when human monocyte be preincubated with dexamethasone for 1 hour and then stimulate either with bacterial lipopolysaccharide or phorbol myristate , it be find that dexamethasone inhibit the lipopolysaccharide-induced interleukin-1 beta protein production , but the phorbol myristate -induced production be increase 3-10 fold .
this difference be also see at the mrna level .
when dexamethasone be add to the culture 3 hour after the stimulators , it clearly decrease the interleukin-1 beta mrna level regardless of the stimulator use ( although the effect be clearly weak on the pma-induced mrna ) .
thus these data suggest that the phorbol myristate-induced signal ( prolonged protein kinase c activation ? ) can not be inhibit by prior incubation with dexamethasone and it also protect the induce mrna for the degradative action of dexamethasone .
distinct mechanism for n-acetylcysteine inhibition of cytokine-induced e-selectin and vcam-1 expression .
we have examine the effect of n-acetyl-l-cysteine ( nac ) , a well-characterized , thiol-containing antioxidant , on agonist-induced monocytic cell adhesion to endothelial cell ( ec ) .
nac inhibit interleukin-1 ( il-1 beta ) -induced , but not basal , adhesion with 50 % inhibition at approximately 20 mm .
monocytic cell adhesion to ec in response to tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) , lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , alpha-thrombin , or phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) be similarly inhibit by nac .
unlike publish study with pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate , which specifically inhibit vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 ( vcam-1 ) , nac inhibit il-1 beta -induced mrna and cell surface expression of both e-selectin and vcam-1 .
nac have no effect on the half-life of e-selectin or vcam-1 mrna .
although nac reduce nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) activation in ec a measure by gel-shift assay use an oligonucleotide probe correspond to the consensus nf-kappa b binding site of the vcam-1 gene ( vcam- nf-kappa b ) , the antioxidant have no appreciable effect when an oligomer correspond to the consensus nf-kappa b binding site of the e-selectin gene ( e-selectin -nf-kappa b ) be use .
because nf-kappa b have be report to be redox sensitive , we study the effect of nac on the ec redox environment .
nac cause an expect dramatic increase in the reduce glutathione ( gsh ) level in ec .
in vitro study demonstrate that whereas the binding affinity of nf-kappa b to the vcam- nf-kappa b oligomer peak at a gsh -to-oxidized glutathione ( gssg ) ratio of approximately 200 and decrease at high ratio , the binding to the e-selectin -nf-kappa b oligomer appear relatively unaffected even at ratio > 400 , i.e. , those achieve in ec treat with 40 mm nac .
these result suggest that nf-kappa b binding to it consensus sequence in the vcam-1 and e-selectin gene exhibit marked difference in redox sensitivity , allow for differential gene expression regulate by the same transcription factor .
our data also demonstrate that nac increase the gsh -to- gssg ratio within the ec suggest one possible mechanism through which this antioxidant inhibit agonist-induced monocyte adhesion to ec .
characterization of nf(p) , the nuclear factor that interact with the regulatory p sequence ( 5'-cgaaaatttcc-3' ) of the human interleukin-4 gene : relationship to nf-kappa b and nf-at .
the p sequence of the human interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) gene , which be define a a responsive element for phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and calcium ionophore ( a23187 ) in jurkat t cell , share sequence similarity with the nf-kappa b and the nf-at binding site .
we examine whether nf(p) , a nuclear factor specific for the p sequence , be related to nf-kappa b and nf-at .
nf-kappa b ( p65 or p65/p50 heterodimer ) bind to the p sequence in electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) and activate transcription through the p sequence when expression plasmid be cotransfected with p sequence -driven reporter plasmid in jurkat t cell .
in emsas , nf(p) binding be inhibit by the unlabeled nf-at binding site but not by the unlabeled ap1 binding site and purify nf-at contain an activity that bind to the p sequence .
both mobility shift and sequence specificity of nf-at be similar to those of nf(p) and only a small amount of p65 be detect in nf(p) in crude nuclear extract .
these result indicate that the component ( s ) of nf-at have the potential to reconstitute nf(p) whereas nf-kappa b alone can not account for nf(p) in crude extract .
unlike nf-at , nf(p) do not contain ap1 a it dna binding component .
the suppression of t cell function and nf(kappa)b expression by serine protease inhibitor be block by n-acetylcysteine .
direct evidence that n-acetylcysteine ( nac ) enhance the immune response of peripheral blood t cell at the level of nf(kappa)b be present .
in addition , nac block the suppression of t cell mitogenesis and cytokine production by protease inhibitor such a n-tosylphenylalanine chloromethyl ketone ( tpck ) .
the proliferative response of purify cd4+ or cd8+ t cell be suppress more strongly by tpck when anti-cd28 rather than the phorbol ester pma be use a the mitogenic coactivator .
cytokine ( il-2 , il-6 , inf-gamma ) production be inhibit 95-100 % by concentration of tpck that totally suppress the mitogenesis of cd4+ or cd8+ cell .
use electrophoretic mobility shift assay , we find that tpck virtually abolish ( to less than 1 % ) the level of nf(kappa)b ( but not oct-1 ) find in nuclear and whole cell extract of activate t cell .
strikingly , the immunosuppressive effect of tpck be block when t cell be pretreated for 15 min with 5 mm nac .
nac not only block the effect of tpck but enhance mitogenesis and cytokine production ( > 2.5-fold in some case ) upon activation of unsuppressed t cell .
our data support the notion that nf ( kappa ) b and i ( kappa ) b protease play obligate role in t cell activation and mitogenesis , role that be enhance significantly by nac .
the small gtp -binding protein rho potentiate ap-1 transcription in t cell .
the rho family of small gtp -binding protein be involve in the regulation of cytoskeletal structure , gene transcription , specific cell fate development , and transformation .
we demonstrate in this report that overexpression of an activated form of rho enhance ap-1 activity in jurkat t cell in the presence of phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) , but activate rho ( v14rho ) have little or no effect on nfat , oct-1 , and nf-kappab enhancer element activity under similar condition .
overexpression of a v14rho construct incapable of membrane localization ( caax delete ) abolish pma -induced ap-1 transcriptional activation .
the effect of rho on ap-1 be independent of the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway , a a dominant-negative mek and a mek inhibitor ( pd98059 ) do not affect rho -induced ap-1 activity .
v14rho bind strongly to protein kinase calpha ( pkcalpha ) in vivo ; however , deletion of the caax site on v14rho severely diminish this association .
evidence for a role for pkcalpha a an effector of rho be obtain by the observation that coexpression of the n-terminal domain of pkcalpha block the effect of activate rho plus pma on ap-1 transcriptional activity .
these data suggest that rho potentiate ap-1 transcription during t-cell activation
detection of intracellular signal transduction molecule in pbmc from rhesus macaque and sooty mangabey .
one of the manifestation of human hiv-1 and nonhuman primate siv infection that lead to disease be reason to be secondary to generalize t-cell dysfunction .
the molecular mechanism associate with the t-cell dysfunction remain to be elucidate .
to address this issue , we seek to utilize the nonhuman primate model to study intracellular signaling event in cell from disease-susceptible rhesus macaque and disease-resistant sooty mangabey .
because relatively little be know about these event in nonhuman primate , our laboratory define optimal condition , reagent , and assay for the study of signal transduction event in cell from nonhuman primate .
the protein phosphorylation pattern in the two monkey exhibit quantitative , qualitative , and kinetic difference .
antibody to stat6 detect a unique band in macaque cell lysates .
this band be markedly decrease human cell lysates and never see in mangabey cell lysates .
detection of various other intracellular signaling protein be also describe .
arrest development : understand v-abl .
the protein tyrosine kinase activity of the v-abl oncogene have be demonstrate to subvert the normal second messenger system use by lymphoid cell for growth and differentiation .
transformation of bone marrow with the abelson murine leukemia virus result in the appearance of b cell lineage cell arrest at the pre-b cell stage .
recent report have characterize these cell express high v-abl kinase activity a deficient in detectable nf-kappab dna binding activity and low level rag gene expression .
these observation suggest that v-abl may be inhibit the differentiation of b cell by block these two crucial element in the maturation pathway .
regulation of ikb alpha phosphorylation by pkc- and ca(2+)- dependent signal transduction pathway .
the ca(2+) -dependent phosphatase calcineurin , a target of fk506 and csa , synergizes with pkc -induced activation of nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappa b in t cell line .
we have investigate whether this synergy be present in other cell type and the mechanism ( s ) by which these two pathway lead to nf-kappa b activation .
while this synergy be present in other cell type , in the monocytic cell line u937 calcineurin be also sufficient to activate nf-kappa b .
have previously show that ca(2+)- and pkc- dependent pathway synergize by accelerate the degradation of ikb alpha , we focus on the regulation of ikb alpha phosphorylation .
while pkc -dependent pathway sequentially result in the phosphorylation and in an incomplete degradation of ikb alpha in t cell line , co-activation of ca(2+) -dependent pathway accelerate the rate of ikb alpha phosphorylation and result in it complete degradation .
activation of ca(2+) -dependent pathway alone do not result in the phosphorylation and/or degradation of ikb alpha in jurkat t or in u937 cell .
treatment of t cell with the selective pkc inhibitor gf109203x abrogate the pma -induced ikb alpha phosphorylation /degradation irrespective of activation of ca(2+) -dependent pathway , but not the phosphorylation and degradation of ikb alpha induce by tnf-alpha , a pkc -independent stimulus .
contrary to the interaction with pkc , ca(2+) -dependent pathway synergize with tnf-alpha not at the level of ikb alpha phosphorylation , but at the level of it degradation .
these result indicate that ca(2+) -dependent pathway , include the phosphatase calcineurin , participate in the regulation of nf-kappa b in a cell specific fashion and synergize with pkc -dependent and -independent pathway at the level of ikb alpha phosphorylation and degradation .
tcl1 oncogene activation in preleukemic t cell from a case of ataxia-telangiectasia .
the tcl1 oncogene on human chromosome 14q32.1 be involve in chromosome translocation [ t(14;14)(q11;q32.1) and t(7;14)(q35;q32.1) ] and inversion [ inv14(q11;q32.1) ] with tcr alpha/beta locus in t-cell leukemia , such a t-prolymphocytic ( t-pll ) .
it be also involve in t- acute and - chronic leukemia arise in case of ataxia-telangiectasia ( at ) , an immunodeficiency syndrome .
similar chromosomal rearrangement occur also in the clonally expand t cell in at patient before the appearance of the overt leukemia .
we have analyze the expression of tcl1 mrna and protein in peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbls ) from four at case and from healthy control .
we find that the tcl1 gene be overexpressed in the pbls of an at patient with a large clonal t-cell population exhibit the t(14;14) translocation but not in the lymphocyte of the other case .
fluorescence in situ hybridization of the tcl1 genomic locus to lymphocyte metaphase from the at patient with the t-cell clonal expansion show that the breakpoint of the t(14;14) translocation lie within the tcl1 locus and be accompany by an invert duplication of the distal part of chromosome 14 .
these data indicate that tcl1 be activate in preleukemic clonal cell a a consequence of chromosome translocation involving sequence from the tcr locus at 14q11 .
deregulation of tcl1 be the first event in the initiation of malignancy in these type of leukemia and represent a potential tool for clinical evaluation .
mek1 and the extracellular signal-regulated kinase be require for the stimulation of il-2 gene transcription in t cell .
tcr engagement stimulate the activation of the protein kinase raf-1 .
active raf-1 phosphorylates and activate the mitogen-activated protein ( map ) kinase /extracellular signal-regulated kinase kinase 1 ( mek1 ) , which in turn phosphorylates and activate the map kinases/extracellular signal regulated kinase , erk1 and erk2 .
raf-1 activity promote il-2 production in activate t lymphocyte .
therefore , we seek to determine whether mek1 and erk activity also stimulate il-2 gene transcription .
expression of constitutively active raf-1 or mek1 in jurkat t cell enhance the stimulation of il-2 promoter -driven transcription stimulate by a calcium ionophore and pma , and together with a calcium ionophore the expression of each protein be sufficient to stimulate nf-at activity .
expression of mek1 -interfering mutant inhibit the stimulation of il-2 promoter -driven transcription and block the ability of constitutively active ra and raf-1 to costimulate nf-at activity with a calcium ionophore .
expression of the map kinase-specific phosphatase , mkp-1 , which block erk activation , inhibit il-2 promoter and nf-at -driven transcription stimulate by a calcium ionophore and pma , and in addition , mkp-1 neutralize the transcriptional enhancement cause by active raf-1 and mek1 expression .
we conclude that the map kinase signal transduction pathway consist of raf-1 , mek1 , and erk1 and erk2 function in the stimulation il-2 gene transcription in activate t lymphocyte .
stimulation of hiv replication in mononuclear phagocyte by leukemia inhibitory factor .
this study examine the effect of leukemia inhibitory factor ( lif ) on human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) replication in mononuclear phagocyte ( mnp ) .
lif induce a dose-dependent increase in p24 antigen production in the chronically infected promonocytic cell line u1 .
the magnitude and time kinetics of the lif effect be similar to interleukin 1 ( il-1 ) , il-6 , and tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) , other cytokine know to induce hiv replication in this cell line .
to characterize mechanism responsible for these lif effect , level of hiv mrna , activation of the dna binding protein nuclear factor ( nf ) -kb , signal transduction pathway , and potential interaction with other cytokine be analyze .
lif increase steady-state level of hiv mrna at 2.0 , 4.3 , and 9.2 kb .
this be detectable by 24 h and persist until 72 h .
the dna binding protein nf-kb be a central mediator in cytokine activation of hiv transcription .
nf-kb level be high in unstimulated u1 cell a compare to the parent cell line u937 .
in both cell line lif increase nf-kb activity .
induction of nf-kb and hiv replication by cytokine be at least in part dependent on reactive oxygen intermediate .
the oxygen radical scavenger n-acetyl-l-cysteine , but not an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase , inhibit lif -induced hiv replication .
lif induce the production of other cytokine in monocyte but it effect on hiv replication be not inhibit by antibody to il-1 , tnf , or il-6 .
these result identify lif a a stimulus of hiv replication .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
induction of mn sod in human monocyte without inflammatory cytokine production by a mutant endotoxin .
endotoxin selectively induce monocyte mn superoxide dismutase ( sod ) without affect level of cu , zn sod , catalase , or glutathione peroxidase .
however , little be know about the structure-activity relationship and the mechanism by which endotoxin induce mn sod .
in this study we demonstrate that a mutant escherichia coli endotoxin lack myristoyl fatty acid at the 3' r-3-hydroxymyristate position of the lipid a moiety retain it full capacity to coagulate limulus amoebocyte lysate compare with the wild-type e . coli endotoxin and markedly stimulate the activation of human monocyte nuclear factor-kappab and the induction of mn sod mrna and enzyme activity .
however , in contrast to the wild-type endotoxin , it fail to induce significant production of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha by monocyte and do not induce the phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of mitogen-activated protein kinase .
these result suggest that 1 ) lipid a myristoyl fatty acid , although it be important for the induction of inflammatory cytokine production by human monocyte , be not necessary for the induction of mn sod , 2 ) endotoxin -mediated induction of mn sod and inflammatory cytokine be regulate , at least in part , through different signal transduction pathway , and 3 ) failure of the mutant endotoxin to induce tumor necrosis factor-alpha production be , at least in part , due to it inability to activate mitogen-activated protein kinase .
direct suppression of stat1 function during adenoviral infection .
the action of adenoviral e1a oncoprotein on host immune-response gene have be attribute to interaction with p300/cbp-type transcriptional coactivators in competition with endogenous transcription factor such a signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein .
however , we show that mutant form of e1a that no longer bind p300/cbp can still interact directly with stat1 ( via e1a n-terminal and stat1 c-terminal residue ) and block ifngamma-driven , stat1 -dependent gene activation and consequent function during early-phase infection in the natural host cell .
the result provide a distinct and more specific mechanism for e1a -mediated immune suppression and an alternative model of ifngamma -driven enhanceosome formation that may allow for other adaptor ( in addition to p300/cbp ) to link stat1 to the basal transcription complex .
the immediate-early gene product egr-1 regulate the human interleukin-2 receptor beta-chain promoter through noncanonical egr and sp1 binding site .
the interleukin-2 il-2 receptor beta-chain ( il-2rbeta ) be an essential component of the receptor for il-2 and il-15 .
although il-2rbeta be constitutively express by lymphocyte , it expression can be far induce by a number of stimulus , include phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) .
we have now characterize factor that bind to an enhancer region located between nucleotide -170 and -139 of the human il-2rbeta promoter .
both sp1 and sp3 bind to the 5' portion of this region , whereas a pma -inducible factor ( pif ) mainly bind to it 3' portion and bind to the sp binding motif as well .
in jurkat t cell , induction of pif dna binding activity be rapidly induce , require de novo protein synthesis , and be sustained at a high level for at least 23 h .
interestingly , pif be constitutively activate in human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 -transformed mt-2 cell .
in this paper , we demonstrate that pif be egr-1 base on it recognition by anti- egr-1 antiserum in gel mobility shift assay , even though the il-2rbeta dna binding motif differ substantially from the canonical egr-1 binding site .
in addition , egr-1 bind to the sp binding site .
in jurkat cell , both site be require for maximal il-2rbeta promoter activity , and in helas3 cell , transfection of egr-1 could drive activity of a reporter construct contain both site .
moreover , sp1 and egr-1 could form a complex with kinetics that correlate with the production of egr-1 in jurkat cell upon pma stimulation .
thus , sp1 and egr-1 physically and functionally cooperate to mediate maximal il-2rbeta promoter activity .
defective transcription of the il-2 gene be associate with impaired expression of c-fos , fosb , and junb in anergic t helper 1 cell .
anergic cd4+ th cell do not produce il-2 when challenge with ag-pulsed accessory cell because of a transcriptional defect .
in this work , we report that these anergic t cell be defective in their ability to up-regulate protein binding and transactivation at two critical il-2 dna enhancer element : nf-at ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ; a sequence that bind a heterotrimeric nfatp , fo , and jun protein complex ) and activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) ( that bind fo and jun heterodimers ) .
western blot analysis of nuclear extract show that the impaired dna-protein interaction in anergic t cell be associate with poor expression of the inducible ap-1 family member c-fos , fosb , and junb .
however , the reduce expression of these protein be not the result of a global tcr/cd3 -signaling defect because cd3 cross-linking induce an equivalent increase in intracellular-free calcium ion , as well a nfatp dephosphorylation , translocation to the nucleus , and dna binding in both normal and anergic t cell .
thus , defective il-2 gene transcription appear to be due , at least in part , to a selective block in the expression of the ap-1 fo and jun family member in anergic t cell .
calcium dependent activation of the nf-at transcription factor by p59fyn .
a reporter gene under the control of a t-cell antigen receptor element be activate in jurkat cell by antigen receptor triggering or by a combination of phorbol myristate acetate , which activate protein kinase c , and a calcium ionophore .
both these signal be necessary for expression of the reporter gene .
when co-transfected with a construct capable of overexpressing the tyrosine kinase p59fyn , the reporter gene be activate by pma alone .
thus p59fyn could replace the calcium ionophore but not activation of protein kinase c .
the activation by p59fyn plus pma be block by egta and by the immunosuppressant drug cyclosporin a .
a microtitre assay system for glucocorticoid receptor : decrease receptor concentration in myocardial infarction .
a major difficulty in determination of glucocorticoid receptor site be the very complicated assay procedure .
therefore , we describe a microtitre assay system for glucocorticoid receptor which be a whole-cell competitive binding radioassay use [3h]-dexamethasone a radioligand .
this modification of a previously describe protocol simplify and reduce laboratory work and allow assay reproducibility to be control more reliably .
thus enable to perform the test on multiple blood sample in parallel , we investigate cardiac infarction patient over a 12-day period to test if glucocorticoid receptor binding be alter in this ' stressful ' disease .
on the first day of the disease , glucocorticoid receptor capacity be significantly decrease without alteration of the receptor-ligand affinity , whereas on day 4 and 12 the number of receptor site be normal again .
this result fit well into the general observation of stress-induced down-regulation of immune response .
itk , a t cell-specific tyrosine kinase , be require for cd2-mediated interleukin-2 promoter activation in the human t cell line jurkat .
we investigate the functional role of itk , a member of the cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase tec family , in t cell activation .
stimulation of either cd2 or t cell receptor ( tcr ) /cd3 on tcells by monoclonal antibody-mediated cross-linking induce tyrosine phosphorylation of itk , which be maximal as early a 1 min after stimulation .
the tyrosine kinase activity in the anti- itk immunoprecipitate be significantly activate upon these stimulation .
interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) promoter activity stimulate by cross-linking of cd2 , tcr /cd3 , and cd28 with antibody be significantly reduce by transient expression of an itk mutant lack the kinase activity .
the reduction parallel a decrease in tyrosine phosphorylation of endogenous wild-type itk .
stimulation of cd2 or tcr/cd3 induce activation of the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) , the bind site of which be include in the il-2 gene promoter .
the activation of nfat be also impair by expression of the itk mutant .
these result demonstrate that itk play a role in il-2 production , indicate a critical involvement of itk in the initial stage of t cell activation by mediate signal from the tcr/cd3 complex , cd2 , and cd28 .
cd14 -mediated translocation of nuclear factor-kappa b induce by lipopolysaccharide do not require tyrosine kinase activity .
during the course of serious bacterial infection , lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) be believe to interact with macrophage receptor , result in the generation of inflammatory mediator and systemic symptom include hemodynamic instability and shock .
cd14 , a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-linked antigen , function a an lp signaling receptor .
a critical issue concern the mechanism by which cd14 , which have no transmembrane domain , transduce it signal follow lp binding .
recently , investigator have hypothesize that cd14 -mediated signaling be effect through a receptor-associated tyrosine kinase ( tk ) , suggest a multicomponent receptor model of lp signaling .
wild-type chinese hamster ovary ( cho ) -k1 cell can be activate by endotoxin to release arachidonate follow transfection with human cd14 ( cho/ cd14 ) .
nuclear translocation of cytosolic nf-kappa b be correlate with a number of lp -inducible response .
we seek to determine if this pathway be present in cho/ cd14 cell and to elucidate the relationship of nf-kappa b activation to the cd14 receptor system .
lp -stimulated translocation of nf-kappa b in cho/ cd14 cell resemble the same response in the murine macrophage-like cell line raw 264.7 .
protein synthesis inhibitor and corticosteroid , which suppress arachidonate release and the synthesis of proinflammatory cytokine , have no effect on translocation of nf-kappa b in cho/ cd14 or raw 264.7 cell , demonstrate that nf-kappa b translocation be an early event .
although tk activity be consistently observe by immunoblotting extract from activate raw 264.7 cell , lps-induced phosphotyrosine residue be not observe from similarly treat cho/cd14 cell .
furthermore , the tk inhibitor herbimycin a and genistein fail to inhibit translocation of nf-kappa b in cho/cd14 or raw 264.7 cell , although both of these agent inhibit lp -induced tk activity in raw 264.7 cell .
these result imply that tk activity be not obligatory for cd14 -mediated signal transduction to occur in response to lp .
cyclosporin a interfere with the inducible degradation of nf-kappa b inhibitor , but not with the processing of p105/ nf-kappa b1 in t cell .
the transcription factor nf-kappa b control the induction of numerous cytokine promoter during the activation of t lymphocyte .
inhibition of t cell activation by the immunosuppressant cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 exert a suppressive effect on the induction of these nf-kappa b -controlled cytokine promoter .
we show for human jurkat t leukemia cell , as well a human and mouse primary t lymphocyte , that this inhibitory effect be accompany by an impaired nuclear translocation of the rel protein c-rel , rela/p65 and nf-kappa b1/p50 , whereas the nuclear appearance of relb remain unaffected .
csa do not interfere with the synthesis of rel protein , but prevent the inducible degradation of cytosolic nf-kappa b inhibitor i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta upon t cell activation .
csa neither inhibit the processing of the nf-kappa b1 precursor p105 to p50 , nor do it " stabilize " the c-terminal portion of p105 , i kappa b gamma , which be degrade during p105 processing to mature p50 .
these result indicate that csa interfere with a specific event in the signal-induced degradation of i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta , but do not affect the processing of nf-kappa b1/ p105 to p50 .
analysis of cytokine signaling in patient with extrinsic asthma and hyperimmunoglobulin e .
background : recent data suggest that the regulation of class switching to ige by cytokine be mediate by stat transcription factor .
the induction of ige by il-4 and il-13 occur through the activation of the intracellular signal-transducing protein stat6 , whereas the inhibition of ige class switching by interferon-y ( ifn-gamma ) occur through the activation of statl .
objective : we hypothesize that in extrinsic asthma or in case of markedly elevated ige ( ie , hyperimmunoglobulin e [ hie ] ) increase level of ige may be associate with alteration in the cytokine level or the activation of stat6 .
method : pbmcs and serum from 8 patient with extrinsic asthma ( mean ige , 285+/-100 iu/ml ) , 3 patient with hie ( mean ige , 7050+/-1122 iu/ml ) , and 14 nonatopic control subject ( mean ige , 112+/-28 iu/ml ) be analyze .
result : the mean il-4 level detect by elisa be much great in patient with hie than control subject ( 88.6+/-11.5 pg/ml v 11.5+/-7.1 pg/ml , p = .005 ) , and increase il-4 level among patient with both asthma and hie correlate with the increase ige level .
in contrast , il-13 level be not elevated .
level of stat6 protein present in pbmcs do not differ in the patient and control subject .
examination of stat6 dna-binding activity demonstrate no activation of il-4 signaling in patient with either hie or acute asthma .
interestingly , evidence for the presence of b cell that have already switch to ige be see in pbmcs of several patient with asthma or hie .
conclusion : these result indicate that ( 1 ) ige production in asthma and hie usually be associate with elevated level of il-4 , but not il-13 , in the peripheral blood ; ( 2 ) the increase serum il-4 level in asthma and hie be not sufficient to induce stat6 activation in pbmcs ; and ( 3 ) evidence of switch recombination to epsilon may be detect in isolate case of elevated ige .
this imply that high level of ige in these patient either result from b cell that have already undergo class switching , from ig class switching that be localized to target tissue , or both .
inhibition of nf-kappa b activation in vitro and in vivo : role of 26 proteasome .
it be become increasingly apparent that nf-kappa b play a critical role in regulate the inflammatory response .
data obtain from study in our laboratory demonstrate that the proteasome play an important role in the inflammatory cascade by regulate the activation of nf-kappa b .
indeed , the availability of selective and orally active proteasome inhibitor should prove useful in delineate the role of the proteasome and nf-kappa b in other pathophysiological condition such a cancer and heart disease .
inhibition of phorbol ester-induced monocytic differentiation by dexamethasone be associate with down-regulation of c-fos and c-jun ( ap-1 ) .
previous study have show that treatment of human myeloid leukemia cell with 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) be associate with induction of monocytic differentiation and expression of the c-jun and c-fos early response gene .
the present work demonstrate that the glucocorticoid dexamethasone inhibit tpa -induced increase in c-jun and c-fos mrna level in u-937 leukemia cell .
these finding be associate with a block in appearance of the monocytic phenotype , include inhibition of tpa -induced increase in lamin a , lamin c , and vimentin transcript .
other study have demonstrate that tpa -induced monocytic differentiation and expression of the c-jun and c-fos gene in myeloid leukemia cell be regulate by protein kinase c ( pkc ) .
the finding that dexamethasone have no effect on tpa -induced activation of pkc suggest that this glucocorticoid inhibit signal downstream or parallel to this enzyme .
nuclear run-on assay demonstrate that : ( 1 ) induction of c-jun and c-fos expression by tpa be regulate by transcriptional mechanism , ( 2 ) tpa -induced expression of c-jun and c-fos do not require protein synthesis , and ( 3 ) tpa -induced expression of both gene be inhibit at the transcriptional level by dexamethasone .
to far define the effect of dexamethasone at the molecular level , we prepare a series of delete c-jun promoter fragment link to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) gene .
increase in cat activity during transient expression of these construct in tpa -treated u-937 cell could be assign to the region ( -97 to -20 ) of the promoter that contain the ap-1 binding site .
this induction of cat activity be sensitive to dexamethasone .
these finding suggest that dexamethasone down-regulates tpa -induced transcription of the c-jun gene during monocytic differentiation by inhibit activation of the ap-1 site .
nf-kappab only partially mediate epstein-barr virus latent membrane protein 1 activation of b cell .
the latent membrane protein 1 ( lmp1 ) of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) be require for ebv -induced immortalization of human b cell and cause tumorigenic transformation of cell line .
lmp1 expression induce phenotypic change resemble b cell activation , such a cell size increase and up-regulation of cell surface activation marker .
lmp1 contain two domain that activate the transcription factor nf-kappab , one through interaction with traf protein and the other with the tradd protein .
the purpose of the present study be to investigate the importance of nf-kappab induction in the up-regulation of the b cell activation marker icam-1 and cd71 by lmp1 .
this study show that expression of lmp1 activate transcription from p50/p65- and c-rel- responsive promoter , and that this activity can be completely inhibit by expression of a dominant inhibitory ikappab mutant .
icam-1 and cd71 be nevertheless up-regulated by lmp1 in primary b cell and cell line express the dominant ikappab .
furthermore , lmp1 -induced cell size increase of primary b cell be unaffected by ikappab expression .
it be conclude that even when lmp1 be unable to activate nf-kappab , it be still capable of induce certain characteristic of activate b cell , strongly suggest that lmp1 can also activate cell independently of nf-kappab .
nf-kappab activation be a critical regulator of human granulocyte apoptosis in vitro .
during beneficial inflammation , potentially tissue-damaging granulocyte undergo apoptosis before be clear by phagocyte in a non-phlogistic manner .
here we show that the rate of constitutive apoptosis in human neutrophil and eosinophil be greatly accelerate in both a rapid and concentration-dependent manner by the fungal metabolite gliotoxin , but not by it inactive analog methylthiogliotoxin .
this induction of apoptosis be abolish by the caspase inhibitor zvad-fmk , correlate with the inhibition of nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappab ) , and be mimic by a cell permeable inhibitory peptide of nf-kappab , sn-50 ; other nf-kappab inhibitor , curcumin and pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ; and the proteasome inhibitor , mg-132 .
gliotoxin also augment dramatically the early ( 2-6 h ) pro-apoptotic effect of tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) in neutrophil and unmask the ability of tnf-alpha to induce eosinophil apoptosis .
in neutrophil , tnf-alpha cause a gliotoxin -inhibitable activation of an inducible form of nf-kappab , a response that may underlie the ability of tnf-alpha to delay apoptosis at late time ( 12-24 h ) and limit it early killing effect .
furthermore , cycloheximide display a similar capacity to enhance tnf-alpha induce neutrophil apoptosis even at time point when cycloheximide alone have no pro-apoptotic effect , suggest that nf-kappab may regulate the production of protein ( s ) which protect neutrophil from the cytotoxic effect of tnf-alpha .
these data shed light on the biochemical and molecular mechanism regulate human granulocyte apoptosis and , in particular , indicate that the transcription factor nf-kappab play a crucial role in regulate the physiological cell death pathway in granulocyte .
cloning and expression of the epstein-barr virus -encoded dutpase : patient with acute , reactivate or chronic virus infection develop antibody against the enzyme .
the gene encode the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -specific dutpase be amplify from virus dna by pcr .
the active enzyme be express in escherichia coli and in insect cell a a non-fusion protein .
the protein from e. coli specifically convert dutp to dump and do not react with other dntps or ntps .
preliminary experiment yield a km value of about 0.8 microm for dutp .
mabs against the dutpase react with a protein of approximately 31 kda in 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) -stimulated b cell harbour either type 1 or type 2 ebv .
the protein be find in untreated cell at low level , whereas induction of the lytic replication cycle by tpa treatment or by provide the immediate early transactivator bzlf1 in trans result in increase expression .
we demonstrate that the virus dutpase isolate from ebv -infected cell be a phosphoprotein .
the protein express in insect cell be use to test for the presence of specific antibody in serum from normal , healthy carrier and from patient with various disease .
while the serum of ebv -negative individual ( 0/3 ) or healthy carrier ( 0/33 ) do not contain detectable level of antibody , patient with mononucleosis ( 5/18 ) , chronic ebv infection ( 2/7 ) , ebv reactivation ( 7/20 ) and human immunodeficiency virus infection ( 5/24 ) show elevated antibody titre against the enzyme .
this indicate that the dutpase be express during ebv replication and reactivation .
the enzyme might therefore be a potential target for drug therapy under condition of active dna replication .
e3 , a hematopoietic-specific transcript directly regulate by the retinoic acid receptor alpha .
retinoic acid ( ra ) -induced maturation mediate by the retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar alpha ) have be implicate in myeloid development .
we have use differential hybridization analysis of a cdna library construct from the murine ra -inducible mpro promyelocyte cell line to identify immediate-early gene induce by ra during granulocytic differentiation .
e3 , one of nine sequence identify , be upregulated in an immediate-early manner , with transcript level peak after 60 minute exposure to ra .
e3 transcript be ra -inducible in hl60 cell , but not in an ra -resistant subclone , hl60r , that harbor a mutate rar alpha gene .
however , when hl60r cell be transduce with a functional copy of the rar alpha gene , ra induce a 10-fold increase in e3 mrna level .
e3 transcript be present in the myeloid , b-lymphoid , and erythroid lineage , absent in nonhematopoietic cell , and encode a highly hydrophobic , potentially phosphorylated polypeptide of unknown function with significant homology to a putative protein express in myeloid cell .
the murine e3 promoter harbor a single bipartite retinoic acid response element which in transient transfection assay confer ra sensitivity .
these result indicate that e3 be a hematopoietic-specific gene that be an immediate target for the activate rar alpha during myelopoiesis .
bcl-6 and the molecular pathogenesis of b-cell lymphoma .
the result present identify the first genetic lesion associate with dlcl , the most clinically relevant form of nhl .
although no proof yet exist of a role for these lesion in dlcl pathogenesis , the feature of the bcl-6 gene product , it specific pattern of expression in b cell , and the clustering of lesion disrupt it regulatory domain strongly suggest that deregulation of bcl-6 expression may contribute to dlcl development .
a more precise definition of the role of bcl-6 in normal and neoplastic b-cell development be the goal of ongoing study of transgenic mouse engineer either to express bcl-6 under heterologous promoter or lack bcl-6 function due to target deletion .
in addition to contribute to the understanding of dlcl pathogenesis , the identification of bcl-6 lesion may have relevant clinical implication .
dlcl represent a heterogeneous group of neoplasm which be treat homogeneously despite the fact that only 50 % of patient experience long-term disease-free survival ( schneider et al. 1990 ) .
the fact that bcl-6 rearrangement identify biologically and clinically distinct subset of dlcl suggest that these lesion may be useful a marker in selection of differential therapeutic strategy base on different risk group .
furthermore , the bcl-6 rearrangement can be use to identify and monitor the malignant clone with sensitive pcr-based technique .
since clinical remission have be observe in a significant fraction of dlcl case , these marker may serve a critical tool for sensitive monitoring of minimal residual disease and early diagnosis of relapse ( gribben et al. 1993 ) .
a hydrophobic domain of ca2+ -modulating cyclophilin ligand modulate calcium influx signaling in t lymphocyte .
ca2+ -modulating cyclophilin ligand ( caml ) be originally describe a a cyclophilin b-binding protein whose overexpression in t cell cause a rise in intracellular calcium , thus activate transcription factor responsible for the early immune response .
a report here , structure-function analysis of the caml gene in jurkat t cell indicate that two of caml 's putative membrane-spanning domain be necessary and sufficient for the modulation of intracellular calcium .
we propose that the hydrophobic c-terminal tail of caml form it effector domain , thus implicate the n-terminal hydrophilic domain in a regulatory role .
these finding define a novel protein motif that function in intracellular calcium signaling .
binding of hmg-i ( y ) elicit structural change in a silencer of the human beta-globin gene .
protein involve in repression of the human beta-globin gene may be useful in the treatment of sickle cell anemia , in conjunction with therapy to reactivate fetal globin gene .
if there be a reciprocal elevation of gamma-globin expression upon repression , this approach could be useful in additional hemoglobinopathy .
we previously show that repression of the beta-globin gene appear to be mediate through two dna sequence , silencer i and ii , and identify a protein term bp1 which bind to both silencer sequence .
in this study , we clone two cdna encoding protein which bind to an oligonucleotide in silencer i contain a bp1 binding site .
these cdna correspond to hmg-i and hmg-y , isoforms regard a architectural protein .
we demonstrate that binding of hmg-i(y) to this oligonucleotide cause bending/flexure of the dna .
hmg-i(y) also bind to a second oligonucleotide contain a bp1 binding site located in a negative control region upstream of the delta-globin gene , suggest a role for hmg-i(y) in repression of adult globin gene .
expression study reveal that hmg-i(y) be ubiquitously express in human tissue that do not express beta-globin , be present in 48 of 50 tissue and six hematopoietic cell line examine .
furthermore , hmg-i(y) expression be down-regulated during differentiation of primary erythroid cell .
we present a model in which hmg-i(y) alter dna conformation to allow binding of repressor protein , and in which the relative amount of hmg-i(y) help to determine the repressive state of the beta-globin gene .
constitutive overexpression of the l-selectin gene in fresh leukemic cell of adult t-cell leukemia that can be transactivated by human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 tax .
l-selectin be an adhesion molecule of the selectin family that mediate the initial step of leukocyte adhesion to vascular endothelium .
upon cellular activation , expression of the l-selectin gene be downregulated at both the protein and mrna level .
to understand the mechanism of leukemic cell infiltration into organ , we study the expression and regulation of l-selectin mrna in fresh leukemic cell of adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) patient and investigate the response of the l-selectin promoter to human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) tax , which be a viral transcriptional transactivator .
flow cytometry show that l-selectin be express on fresh atl cell along with other activation antigen .
northern blot analysis show that atl cell overexpressed that l-selectin mrna and that the level be aberrantly upregulated after pma stimulation .
study use in situ hybridization show expression of the l-selectin mrna in the infiltrate leukemic cell in the liver of two atl patient .
intravenous injection of a rat t-cell line that overexpresses l-selectin show increase organ infiltration .
the induction of tax expression in jpx9 cell result in about a twofold increase in the mrna expression level compare with the basal level .
chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) assay after transient cotransfection show about a fivefold transactivation of the l-selectin promoter by tax .
the serum level of the shed form of l-selectin be significantly increase in atl patient ( mean +/- sd , 4,215.4 +/- 4,111 ng/ml ) compare with those of asymptomatic carrier and healthy blood donor ( mean +/- sd , 1,148.0 +/- 269.0 ng/ml and 991.9 +/- 224 ng/ml , respectively ) .
these result indicate that atl cell constitutively overexpress the l-selectin gene that can be transactivated by htlv-1 tax .
the overexpression of l-selectin , as well a of inflammatory cytokine , by atl cell may provide a basis for atl cell to attach the vascular endothelium , lead to transmigration and organ infitration .
a myc-associated zinc finger protein binding site be one of four important functional region in the cd4 promoter .
the cd4 promoter play an important role in the developmental control of cd4 transcription .
in this report , we show that the minimal cd4 promoter have four factor binding site , each of which be require for full function .
use biochemical and mutagenesis analysis , we determine that multiple nuclear factor bind to these independent site .
we determine that an initiator-like sequence present at the cap site and an ets consensus sequence be require for full promoter function .
we also demonstrate that the myc-associated zinc finger protein ( maz ) appear to be the predominant factor bind to one of these site .
this last site closely resemble the me1a1 g3ag4ag3 motif previously show to be a critical element in the p2 promoter of the c-myc gene .
we therefore believe that the maz transcription factor be also likely to play an important role in the control of developmental expression of the cd4 gene .
lmp-1 activate nf-kappa b by target the inhibitory molecule i kappa b alpha .
lmp-1 , an epstein-barr virus membrane protein express during latent infection , have oncogenic property , a judge from it ability to transform b lymphocyte and rodent fibroblast .
lmp-1 induce the expression of bcl2 , an oncogene which protect cell from apoptosis , as well a of gene encode other protein involve in cell regulation and growth control .
the mechanism by which lmp-1 upregulates these protein be unknown , but it be plausible that lmp-1 modify signal transduction pathway that result in the activation of one or more transcription factor that ultimately regulate transcription of oncogenic gene .
nf-kappa b , a transcription factor control the expression of gene involve in cell activation and growth control , have be show to be activate by lmp-1 .
the mechanism ( s ) regulate this activation remain unknown .
our data indicate that increase nf-kappa b dna binding and functional activity be present in b-lymphoid cell stably or transiently express lmp-1 .
i kappa b alpha be selectively modify in lmp-1 -expressing b cell .
a phosphorylated form of i kappa b alpha and increase protein turnover-degradation correlate with increase nf-kappa b nuclear translocation .
this result in increase transcription of nf-kappa b -dependent-genes , include those encode p105 and i kappa b alpha ( mad3 ) .
these result indicate that lmp-1 activate nf-kappa b in b-cell line by target i kappa b alpha .
identification of the pathway activate by lmp-1 to result in posttranslational modification of i kappa b alpha will aid in determine the role of this virus-host cell protein interaction in epstein-barr virus -mediated oncogenesis .
one gene , two transcript : isolation of an alternative transcript encode for the autoantigen la/ss-b from a cdna library of a patient with primary sjogrens ' syndrome .
a cdna library be prepare from peripheral blood lymphocyte of an autoimmune patient with primary sjogrens ' syndrome .
the cdna library be screen with the patient own autoimmune serum be monospecific for the nuclear autoantigen la/ss-b .
thereby an alternative type of la mrna be identify that differ from the known la mrna due to an exchange of the exon 1 .
sequencing of the genomic region between the exon 1 and 2 show that the alternative 5'-end be a part of the intron .
in addition , the presence of an alternative promoter site , which exist within the intron downstream of the exon 1 , become evident .
in consequence , the alternative la mrna be the result of a promoter switching combine with an alternative splicing mechanism .
in the intron , further transcription factor binding site , include a nf-kappa b element , be identify lead to the suggestion that the expression of the gene encode for the nuclear autoantigen la/ss-b alter in dependence on disease condition .
the il-4 receptor alpha-chain cytoplasmic domain be sufficient for activation of jak-1 and stat6 and the induction of il-4 -specific gene expression .
the common gamma-chain ( gamma(c) ) be a functional component of the il-4r , yet cell lack gamma(c) be able to respond to il-4 .
this have lead to the suggestion that a surrogate gamma'-chain , which can interact with the il-4r alpha chain to mediate signaling , be express on cell lack gamma(c) .
an alternative possibility be that in the absence of gamma(c) , the il-4r alpha chain be able to transduce signal by homodimerization .
to test this latter possibility , a chimeric receptor contain the extracellular domain of c-kit ( the stem cell factor ( scf ) receptor ) and the cytoplasmic and transmembrane domain of the il-4r alpha chain be generate .
treatment of cell express the chimeric receptor kit/il-4r alpha with scf induce activation of the il-4r alpha-associated kinase jak-1 and the transcription factor stat6 .
however , tyrosine phosphorylation of jak-3 , which associate with gamma(c) , be not induce by scf in these cell .
scf -mediated ligation of kit/il-4r alpha be sufficient to elicit il-4 -specific gene expression , include up-regulation of cd23 and synthesis of germ-line epsilon transcript .
in the t cell line ctll2 , ligation of kit/il-4r alpha induce cellular proliferation .
finally , in jak-1 -deficient hela cell , stat6 activation by il-4 be completely abolish .
together , these data demonstrate that the il-4r alpha cytoplasmic domain be sufficient to activate jak-1 and stat6 and to induce expression of il-4 target gene , thus identify a mechanism by which il-4 signaling can proceed in the absence of jak-3 and gamma(c) .
differentiation-dependent expression of a human carboxylesterase in monocytic cell and transcription factor bind to the promoter .
carboxylesterases play an important role in defense and clearance mechanism of the monocyte/macrophage system .
during the differentiation process of cell from the monocytic cell line thp-1 we observe a transient transcriptional upregulation of a human carboxylesterase analyze by mean of northern blot .
in pma-treated thp-1 cell we could detect three major transcription initiation site a reveal by nuclease protection assay carry out with two overlap antisense rna probe .
we have recently clone the carboxylesterase upstream sequence and show it basal promoter activity in cho cell .
use electrophoretic mobility shift analysis we demonstrate that the promoter region span base pair -1 to -275 , which contain several putative bind site for transcription factor , be bind by nuclear factor sp1 and irbp but not by c/ebps .
take together these data indicate that carboxylesterase gene transcription in thp-1 cell start at multiple initiation site and that sp1 and irbp may be critical factor for modulate the differentiation-dependent transcription of this human carboxylesterase gene .
the mechanism of action of cyclosporin a and fk506 .
csa and fk506 be powerful suppressor of the immune system , most notably of t cell .
they act at a point in activation that lie between receptor ligation and the transcription of early gene .
here , stuart schreiber and gerald crabtree review recent finding that indicate csa and fk506 operate a prodrugs : they bind endogenous intracellular receptor , the immunophilins , and the result complex target the protein phosphatase , calcineurin , to exert the immunosuppressive effect .
interleukin-7 upregulates the interleukin-2-gene expression in activate human t lymphocyte at the transcriptional level by enhance the dna binding activity of both nuclear factor of activate t cell and activator protein-1 .
in the present report , we study the role of the stromal-derived cytokine interleukin-7 ( il-7 ) in the il-2-gene regulation in activate t lymphocyte .
production of il-2 require the formation of transcription factor involve in the il-2 -gene regulation .
t-cell receptor ( tcr ) /cd3 engagement result in the activation of nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) , activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) , and nuclear factor kappab ( nfkappab ) , whereas the cd28 responsive complex ( cd28rc ) be activate in response to the cd28 signal .
costimulation of phytohemagglutinin /anti-cd28 activate t lymphocyte with il-7 induce a fivefold enhance il-2 -mrna accumulation and a 2.5-fold enhance protein secretion .
the il-2 -gene transcription rate be increase 3.4-fold , indicate that the effect of il-7 be in part mediate at the transcriptional level .
the molecular mechanism underlie the il-7 effect involve the upregulation of the dna binding activity of nfat ( 60 % ) and ap-1 ( 120 % ) , without affect the activity of nfkappab and cd28rc , which be confirm by transfection assay .
we also show that the il-7 -induced enhancement of the ap-1 -dna binding activity be not cyclosporin a-sensitive .
since ap-1 be part of the nfat complex , we conclude that the il-7 -signaling pathway be involve in the activation of the fo and jun protein of which ap-1 consist .
inhibitory action of nm23 protein on induction of erythroid differentiation of human leukemia cell .
we recently identify a differentiation inhibitory factor ( i-factor ) in mouse myeloid leukemia m1 cell a a murine homolog of the human nm23-h2 gene product .
nm23 gene encode protein that participate in tumor metastasis regulation and in various fundamental cellular process , although their mechanism of action be still unknown .
although all nm23 protein contain nucleoside diphosphate ( ndp ) kinase activity , it have not be establish that the enzyme activity mediate the various function of nm23 protein .
in the present experiment , we examine the effect of nm23 protein on various differentiation induction system of human leukemic cell include hl-60 , u937 , hel/s , ku812f , k562 , and hel cell .
native human erythrocyte ndp kinase protein inhibit the induction of erythroid differentiation of hel , ku812 and k562 cell , but not the induction of monocytic or granulocytic differentiation of hl-60 , u937 and hel/s cell .
the erythroid differentiation of hel cell be inhibit by recombinant human nm23 -h1 , -h2 , mouse nm23 -m1 , and -m2 protein .
moreover , both the mutant nm23-h2his protein and truncate nm23-h2 protein contain n-terminal ( 1-60 ) peptide , which do not have ndp kinase activity , also inhibit erythroid differentiation of hel cell .
these result suggest that ( 1 ) the differentiation inhibitory activity of i-factor /nm23 protein be not restricted to monocytic differentiation of m1 cell , ( 2 ) the inhibitory activity be exhibit without specie specificity , and ( 3 ) the differentiation inhibitory activity of the nm23/ndp kinase protein be independent of it enzyme activity and require the presence of n-terminal peptide .
calcium signalling in t cell stimulate by a cyclophilin b-binding protein .
the immunosuppressant drug cyclosporin a block a calcium -dependent signal from the t-cell receptor ( tcr ) that normally lead to t-cell activation .
when bind to cyclophilin , cyclosporin a bind and inactivate the key signalling intermediate calcineurin .
to identify potential cellular homologues of cyclosporin a that might regulate calcium signalling , we have clone human gene encode cyclophilin b-binding-proteins use the yeast two-hybrid system .
one gene product , when overexpressed in jurkat t cell , specifically induce transcription from the interleukin-2 enhancer , by activate the t-cell-specific transcription factor nf-at and nf-il2a .
this protein , term calcium -signal modulating cyclophilin ligand ( caml ) , act downstream of the tcr and upstream of calcineurin by cause an influx of calcium .
caml appear to be a new participant in the calcium -signal transduction pathway , implicate cyclophilin b in calcium signalling , even in the absence of cyclosporin .
regulation of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and e-selectin expression in endothelial cell by cyclosporin a and the t-cell transcription factor nfat .
nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) be originally describe a a t-cell-specific transcription factor athat support the activation of cytokine gene expression and mediate the immunoregulatory effect of cyclosporin a ( csa ) .
a we observe that activate endothelial cell also express nfat , we test the antiinflammatory property of csa in endothelial cell .
significantly , csa completely suppress the induction of nfat in endothelial cell and inhibit the activity of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) gene regulatory element that use nfat by 60 % .
csa similarly mediate a reduction of up to 65 % in gm-csf mrna and protein expression in activate endothelial cell .
csa also suppress e-selectin , but not vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 ( vcam-1 ) expression in endothelial cell , even though the e-selectin promoter be activate by nf-kappa b rather than nfat .
hence , induction of cell surface expression of this leukocyte adhesion molecule by tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -alpha be reduce by 40 % in the presence of csa , and this be reflect by a 29 % decrease in neutrophil adhesion .
the effect of csa on endothelial cell be also detect at the chromatin structure level , a dnasel hypersensitive site within both the gm-csf enhancer and the e-selectin promoter be suppress by csa .
this represent the first report of nfat in endothelial cell and suggest mechanism by which csa could function a an antiinflammatory agent .
a case of hypersensitivity to thyroid hormone with normally function thyroid gland and increase nuclear triiodothyronine receptor .
a 52-year-old male present himself with tachycardia crisis which appear first during childhood , increase in frequency without goiter or exophthalmos .
cardiac and adrenergic disease be exclude .
the thyroid function be normal regard t4 , free t4 and t3 , tbg , radioiodine uptake , tsh and t3 suppressibility ; however the tsh response to trh be decrease .
the lymphocyte nuclear t3 receptor be find with an affinity close to that of normal volunteer ( ka : 1.42 x 10(10) m-1 v 1.95 +/- 0.35 x 10(10) m-1 ) and a binding capacity markedly increase ( 9.9 v 3.7 +/- 0.4 fmol t3 / 100 microgram dna ) .
pindolol be inefficient on the dysrhythmia which disappear with carbimazole and relapse after withdrawal of the antithyroid drug .
under carbimazole , the plasma t4 markedly decrease ( 27.7 +/- 3.6 nmol/l ) but the patient remain euthyroid .
the clinical course and the laboratory data suggest that the tachycardia crisis be the consequence of a hypersensitivity of the heart to thyroid hormone , associate with an increase number of t3 nuclear receptor site in lymphocyte .
biphasic control of nf-kappa b activation induce by the triggering of hla-dr antigen express on b cell .
the regulation of nf-kappa b activation follow the triggering of hla-dr antigen by mab l243 have be study at various time in raji cell .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay demonstrate a strong increase of nf-kappa b dna binding after triggering of hla-dr antigen .
use tnf-alpha-activity neutralizing antibody , the author demonstrate that the upregulation of nf-kappa b be find to depend , at late time point , on an autocrine effect of tnf-alpha secrete follow triggering of hla-dr antigen .
in contrast , it be find to be tnf-alpha independent in the early time point .
moreover , the upregulation of nf-kappa b binding activity be regulate by the triggering of select epitope of hla-dr antigen .
in fact , mab l243 but not the staphylococcal superantigens , staphylococcal exotoxin toxic shock syndrome toxin-i or staphylococcal enterotoxin b , regulate the nf-kappa b binding activity .
mutation in the pit-1 gene in child with combined pituitary hormone deficiency .
pit-1 be a pituitary-specific transcription factor that bind to and transactivates promoter of growth hormone and prolactin gene .
in three unrelated japanese child with combined pituitary hormone deficiency , we identify three point mutation in the pit-1 gene , pro24leu , arg143gln , and arg271trp , located on the major transactivation region , pou-specific domain , and pou-homeodomain , respectively .
the role of stat4 in species-specific regulation of th cell development by type i ifns .
type i ifns ( ifn-alpha/beta ) , in addition to il-12 , have be show to play an important role in the differentiation of human , but not mouse , th cell .
we show here that ifn-alpha/beta act directly on human t cell to drive th1 development , bypass the need for il-12 -induced signaling , whereas ifn-alpha can not substitute il-12 for mouse th1 development .
the molecular basis for this specie specificity be that ifn-alpha /beta activate stat4 in differentiate human , but not mouse , th cell .
unlike il-12 , which act only on th1 cell , ifn-alpha /beta can activate stat4 not only in human th1 , but also in th2 cell .
however , restimulation of human th2 line and clone in the presence of ifn-alpha do not induce the production of ifn-gamma .
these result suggest that activation of stat4 , which be necessary for the differentiation of naive t cell into polarize th1 cell , be not sufficient to induce phenotype reversal of human th2 cell .
attenuate function of a variant form of the helix-loop-helix protein , id-3 , generate by an alternative splicing mechanism .
the id family of helix-loop-helix protein function a negative regulator of dna binding , basic helix-loop-helix protein in the regulation of cell growth and differentiation .
we report here on the identification of a 17 kda variant of the 14 kda id-3 protein term id-3l ( long version ) which possess a unique 60 amino acid carboxy-terminus generate by read through of a ' cod intron ' and alternative splicing .
northern analysis reveal expression of a minor 1.1 kb id-3l transcript together with the predominant 0.95 kb id-3 transcript in the majority of adult human tissue analyse .
the variant id-3l protein be functionally distinguishable from conventional id-3 since in in vitro dna mobility shift assay , it be greatly impaired in it ability to abrogate binding of the basic helix-loop-helix protein , e47 , to an e box recognition sequence .
abnormality of p16 , p15 and cdk4 gene in recurrent malignant astrocytomas .
abnormality in the p16 , p15 and cdk4 gene that regulate transition through the g1 phase of the cell cycle have be implicate in the malignant progression of astrocytomas .
the result of the present study demonstrate that dysfunction of these gene also occur during recurrence of glial tumor that be highly malignant at first presentation .
analysis of 10 match pair of high grade malignant astrocytomas and their subsequent recurrence identify three distinct group .
the primary and recurrent tumor in group a do not show structural alteration in the p16 , p15 or cdk4 gene , whereas homozygous codeletion of p16 and p15 be observe in both primary and recurrent tumor in group b .
the primary tumor in group c have a normal profile of p16 , p15 and cdk4 at presentation .
upon recurrence , however , the tumor sustain either deletion of p16 alone or codeletion of both p16 and p15 or amplification of cdk4 .
analysis of the molecular difference between primary anaplastic astrocytomas /glioblastomas and their subsequent recurrence , which be clinically indistinguishable , may provide good therapeutic option for treatment .
lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor number in posttraumatic stress disorder .
objective : the author ' objective be to investigate the possibility that glucocorticoid receptor change may be involve in the dysregulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal ( hpa ) axis in posttraumatic stress disorder ( ptsd ) .
method : they measure the number of lymphocyte cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor and plasma cortisol concentration in 15 consecutively admit male combat vietnam veteran with ptsd and in a normal comparison group of 11 subject .
result : both the patient and the normal comparison subject show a morning-to-afternoon decline in glucocorticoid receptor concentration , parallel the normal diurnal decline in cortisol level .
the number of glucocorticoid receptor be 63 % great in the morning and 26 % great in the afternoon in the patient with ptsd than in the normal subject .
no group difference in cortisol level be observe , nor be glucocorticoid receptor number and cortisol level correlate .
the number of morning glucocorticoid receptor be positively correlate with symptom of ptsd and anxiety .
conclusion : these result provide further evidence for a dysregulation of the hpa axis in ptsd .
the finding that patient with ptsd have a substantially great number of lymphocyte glucocorticoid receptor than normal comparison subject be consistent with the author ' previous observation of low 24-hour urinary cortisol excretion in subject with ptsd .
furthermore , the receptor change observe be opposite of those report in major depressive disorder .
the present data , along with other finding of hpa abnormality in ptsd , support the possibility of a great negative feedback sensitivity at one or more level of the hpa axis .
constitutive and inducible protein/dna interaction of the interferon-gamma promoter in vivo in [ correct ] cd45ra and cd45r0 t helper subset [ publish erratum appear in eur j immunol 1997 jul ; 27 ( 7 ) : 1830 ]
interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) be a key cytokine of t lymphocyte with major regulatory function in the immune system .
to determine and compare protein/dna interaction at the native ifn-gamma locus in t cell , we analyze the human ifn-gamma promoter by ligation-mediated polymerase chain reaction ( lm-pcr ) technique .
accordingly , jurkat t cell and primary cd45ra and cd45r0 cd4+ t cell subset isolate from peripheral blood use immunomagnetic bead be culture and analyze by lm-pcr .
constitutive and inducible protein/dna interaction of the ifn-gamma promoter in vivo be detect in all t cell test .
interestingly , an inducible footprint between -183 and -196 be consistently observe in jurkat t cell and cd45ra and cd45r0 t helper subset upon stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate + phytohemagglutinin ( pma + pha ) that be highly sensitive to treatment with corticosteroid .
this novel target site , denote the c-site , be show by several criterion , include cell distribution study , stimulation experiment , supershift assay , and cross-competition electrophoretic mobility shift assay to bind the transcription factor ap-1 .
mutation of the c-site that prevent ap-1 binding to this site be sufficient strikingly to reduce inducible promoter activity in primary cd45r0 t cell .
in summary , the data demonstrate that ifn-gamma gene transcription in primary t cell be regulate in vivo at the level of constitutive and inducible protein/dna interaction .
we propose a model where basal transcription be maintain by binding of various transcription factor to the ifn-gamma promoter , whereas pma + pha -inducible ifn-gamma transcription in cd45r0 t cell be associate with binding of ap-1 to the c-site .
the predominant e2f complex in human primary haemopoietic cell and in aml blast contain e2f-4 , dp-1 and p130 .
the e2f family of transcription factor be think to play an important role in the control of cell cycle progression .
there be now also increase evidence that some family member may act a oncogene or tumour suppressor gene .
the characterization of these protein in human primary haemopoietic cell and acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) blast may thus give an insight to the molecular mechanism govern proliferation and leukaemogenesis in these cell .
therefore we analyse the expression of e2f -dna binding activity and the constituent protein find in the complex in human primary haemopoietic cell of various lineage .
we also study blast from 18 patient with acute myeloid leukaemia ( aml ) .
on electromobility shift assay ( emsa ) a single e2f-dna binding complex be detect in t cell , b cell and monocyte which be show to contain e2f-4 , dp-1 and p130 , indicate that all quiescent haemopoietic cell have the same complex .
examination of 18 aml sample by emsa reveal the presence of e2f binding and no gross abnormality be detect .
an e2f-4 /p130 complex be detect in representative sample of all fab type analyse .
thus abnormality of e2f function be unlikely to play a primary pathogenic role in aml .
a chimeric type ii / type i interleukin-1 receptor can mediate interleukin-1 induction of gene expression in t cell .
the type i interleukin-1 receptor ( il-1r ) be capable of transduce a signal result in promoter activation in t cell .
this signal transduction be dependent on the cytoplasmic domain , which consist of 213 amino acid .
in contrast to the type i receptor , the type ii il-1r have a small cytoplasmic tail , and it be not clear whether this receptor be a signal-transducing or a regulatory molecule .
here we report that the type ii il-1r do not mediate gene activation in jurkat cell .
however , a hybrid receptor compose of the extracellular and transmembrane region of the human type ii interleukin-1 fuse to the cytoplasmic domain of the human type i il-1r be capable of transduce a signal across the membrane result in a pattern of gene activation identical to that mediate by the type i il-1r .
our result indicate that the extracellular domain of the type ii il-1r be capable of functionally interact with interleukin-1 and transmit the result signal to a heterologous cytoplasmic domain .
antigenic specificity of human cd4+ t-cell clone recover from recurrent genital herpes simplex virus type 2 lesion .
lesion result from recurrent genital herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) infection be characterize by infiltration of cd4+ lymphocyte .
we have investigate the antigenic specificity of 47 hsv-specific cd4+ t-cell clone recover from the hsv-2 buttock and thigh lesion of five patient .
clone with proliferative response to recombinant truncate glycoprotein b ( gb ) or gd of hsv-2 or purify natural gc of hsv-2 comprise a minority of the total number of hsv-specific clone isolate from lesion .
the gc2- and gd2- specific cd4+ clone have cytotoxic activity .
the approximate location of the hsv-2 gene encode hsv-2 type-specific cd4+ antigen have be determine by use hsv-1 x hsv-2 intertypic recombinant virus and include the approximate map region 0.30 to 0.46 , 0.59 to 0.67 , 0.67 to 0.73 , and 0.82 to 1.0 unit .
the antigenic specificity of an hla dq2-restricted , hsv-2 type-specific t-cell clone be map to amino acid 425 to 444 of vp16 of hsv-2 by sequential use of an intertypic recombinant virus contain vp16 of hsv-2 in an hsv-1 background , recombinant vp16 fusion protein , and synthetic peptide .
each of the remain four patient also yield at least one type-specific t-cell clone reactive with an hsv-2 epitope map to approximately 0.67 to 0.73 map unit .
the antigenic specificity of lesion-derived cd4+ t-cell clone be quite diverse and include at least 10 epitope .
human t-cell clone reactive with gc and vp16 be report here for the first time .
effect of ara-c on neutral sphingomyelinase and mitogen- and stress- activated protein kinase in t-lymphocyte cell line .
neutral sphingomyelinase ( smase ) can be activate by extracellular signal to produce ceramide , which may affect mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) activity .
neutral smase activity be assess in membrane from jurkat , a human t-cell line , and el4 , a murine t-cell line .
ara-c activate smase with 10 minute in both jurkat and el4 cell , while phorbol ester ( pma ) have no effect .
pma , but not ara-c or ceramides , activate erk mapks , in jurkat and el4 .
pma act synergistically with ionomycin to activate jnk mapks in jurkat and el4 within 10 minute .
ara-c activate jnks only after prolonged incubation ( 90-120 minute ) .
thus , ceramide be not a positive signal for erk activation in t-cell line .
the effect of ara-c on jnk activity may be mediate through secondary response pathway .
interaction between the class ii transactivator and creb binding protein increase transcription of major histocompatibility complex class ii gene .
class ii major histocompatibility ( class ii ) gene be regulate in a b-cell-specific and gamma interferon-inducible fashion .
the master switch for the expression of these gene be the class ii transactivator ( ciita ) .
in this report , we demonstrate that one of the function of ciita be to recruit the creb binding protein ( cbp ) to class ii promoter .
not only functional but also specific binding interaction between ciita and cbp be demonstrate .
moreover , a dominant negative form of cbp decrease the activity of class ii promoter and level of class ii determinant on the surface of cell .
finally , the inhibition of class ii gene expression by the glucocorticoid hormone could be attribute to the squelching of cbp by the glucocorticoid receptor .
we conclude that cbp , a histone acetyltransferase , play an important role in the transcription of class ii gene .
interleukin-3 expression by activate t cell involve an inducible , t-cell-specific factor and an octamer binding protein .
interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) be exclusively express by activate t and natural killer cell , a function that be tightly control both in a lineage-specific and in a stimulation-dependent manner .
we have investigate the protein binding characteristic and functional importance of the act-1-activating region of the il-3 promoter .
this region bind an inducible , t-cell-specific factor over it 5' end , a site that be necessary for the expression of il-3 in the absence of other upstream element .
over it 3' end , it bind a factor that be ubiquitously and constitutively express .
this factor be oct-1 or an immunologically related octamer-binding protein , and it play a role in coordinate the activity of several regulatory element .
these characteristic make the act-1 site analogous to the activate arre-1 site in the il-2 promoter .
furthermore , and despite a lack of sequence homology , the promoter of il-3 and il-2 share an organizational pattern of regulatory element that be likely to be important for the t-cell-specific expression of these gene .
v-erba overexpression be require to extinguish c-erba function in erythroid cell differentiation and regulation of the erba target gene caii .
the v-erba oncoprotein represent a retrovirus-transduced oncogenic version of the thyroid hormone ( t3/t4 ) receptor c-erba ( type alpha ) .
it contribute to virus-induced erythroleukemia by efficiently arrest differentiation of red cell progenitor and by suppress transcription of erythrocyte-specific gene .
here , we show that v-erba and c-erba bind directly to sequence within the promoter of the erythrocyte-specific carbonic anhydrase ii ( caii ) , a gene whose transcription be efficiently suppress by v-erba .
this erba-binding site confer thyroid hormone responsiveness to a heterologous promoter in transient expression experiment and be a target for efficient down-regulation of caii transcription by the v-erba oncoprotein .
in stably transform erythroblast coexpressing the v-erba oncoprotein and the c-erba/t3 receptor at an approximately equimolar ratio , c-erba activity be dominant over v-erba .
t3 efficiently induce erythroid differentiation in these cell , thus overcome the v-erba -mediated differentiation arrest .
likewise , t3 activate caii transcription as well a transient expression of a t3 -responsive reporter gene contain the caii -specific erba-binding site .
the c-erba -dependent activation of this caii reporter construct could only be suppress by very high amount of v-erba .
our result suggest that overexpression of v-erba be require for it function a an oncoprotein .
comparison of retinoic acid and phorbol myristate acetate a inducer of monocytic differentiation .
several human myeloid leukemia cell line grow in vitro can be induce to differentiate to more mature monocyte/macrophage-like cell by treatment with protein kinase c -activating phorbol ester , such a pma .
in addition to pma , cell of the thp-1 myeloid leukemia cell line acquire macrophage-like characteristic after treatment with all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) .
to analyze the signal transduction mechanism induce by ra , we first compare the effect of pma and ra on the expression of gene which be know to be regulate during monocytic differentiation .
both ra and pma effectively down-regulated c-myc expression , while c-myb expression decrease only after pma treatment .
expression of the beta 2-integrin gene , cd11a and cd11b , be clearly increase after both of these treatment .
their effect on the src-family tyrosine kinase gene be different : hck expression be similarly induce by these agent but lyn expression be strong and more rapid after ra treatment .
ra also enhance lyn mrna production rapidly in hl-60 , indicate that the activation of lyn gene expression be common in monocytic and granulocytic maturation of myeloid leukemia cell .
to examine whether the ap-1 enhancer activity be involve in ra -induced monocytic differentiation , thp-1 cell be transiently transfected with a chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) -reporter gene contain 5 copy of the ap-1 binding site .
in contrast to pma , ra do not induce any cat activity in these cell , thus suggest that the ra -induced change in the expression of those gene describe above be not dependent on the ap-1 enhancer activity .
peptide vaccination can lead to enhance tumor growth through specific t-cell tolerance induction .
vaccination with synthetic peptide represent cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) epitope can lead to a protective ctl-mediated immunity against tumor or virus .
we now report that vaccination with a ctl epitope derive from the human adenovirus type 5 e1a-region ( ad5e1a234-243 ) , which can serve a a target for tumor-eradicating ctl , enhance rather than inhibit the growth of ad5e1a-expressing tumor .
this adverse effect of peptide vaccination be rapidly evoke , require low dos of peptide ( 10 microgram ) , and be achieve by a mode of peptide delivery that induce protective t-cell-mediated immunity in other model .
ad5e1a -specific ctl activity could no longer be isolate from mouse after injection of ad5e1a-peptide , indicate that tolerization of ad5e1a -specific ctl activity cause the enhance tumor outgrowth .
in contrast to peptide vaccination , immunization with adenovirus , express ad5e1a , induce ad5e1a -specific immunity and prevent the outgrowth of ad5e1a -expressing tumor .
these result show that immunization with synthetic peptide can lead to the elimination of anti-tumor ctl response .
these finding be important for the design of safe peptide -based vaccine against tumor , allogeneic organ transplant , and t-cell-mediated autoimmune disease .
nf-kappa b activation by tumor necrosis factor alpha in the jurkat t cell line be independent of protein kinase a , protein kinase c , and ca(2+) -regulated kinase .
nf-kappa b be a dna-binding regulatory factor able to control transcription of a number of gene , include human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) gene .
in t cell , nf-kappa b be activate upon cellular treatment by phorbol ester and the cytokine tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) .
in the present work , we investigate the molecular event lead to nf-kappa b activation by tnf alpha in a human t cell line ( jurkat ) and it subclone jct6 , which present a deficiency in the pka transduction pathway .
we find that in both cell line , both phorbol ester and tnf alpha be able to activate nf-kappa b .
phorbol activation be positively modulate by ca2+ influx while tnf alpha activation be not .
furthermore , while pma activation be inhibit by the pkc inhibitor staurosporin , the tnf alpha effect be unchanged .
tnf alpha do not activate camp production and it signal be not modulate by camp activator .
moreover , camp activator do not activate nf-kappa b in jurkat cell .
thus , tnf alpha -induced nf-kappa b activation be find to be mediate by none of the major signal-mediating kinase such a protein kinase c ( pkc ) , protein kinase a , or ca(2+)-regulated kinase .
furthermore , we find that cytoplasmic acidification facilitate nf-kappa b activation by both tnf alpha and pkc , by a mechanism that increase nf-kappa b /i kappa b dissociation without affect the nf-kappa b translocation step .
retinoic acid activate interferon regulatory factor-1 gene expression in myeloid cell .
all-trans-retinoic acid ( atra ) be the drug of choice in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) .
atra induce both in vitro and in vivo differentiation of apl cell into mature granulocyte .
however , the molecular mechanism involve in atra -dependent growth inhibition and cellular differentiation be not presently understand .
the nb4 cell line , which be derive from the bone marrow of a patient with apl during relapse , can be use a a model system to study the growth and differentiation of apl cell .
because interferon ( ifn ) regulatory factor ( irf-1 and irf-2 ) and other ifn-inducible gene product regulate cell growth , we analyze the effect of atra on the expression of these gene .
we show that atra directly activate irf-1 gene expression , follow by activation of irf-2 and 2'-5' oligoadenylate synthetase ( oas ) gene expression with slow kinetics .
in addition to nb4 cell , atra also activate irf-1 gene expression in hl-60 , u937 , and thp-1 cell , which all respond to atra by growth inhibition .
a more than additive increase in irf-1 gene expression be see with atra and ifn-gamma in nb4 cell .
atra do not activate nuclear factor kappa b or signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) activation pathway , suggest that an alternate mechanism be involve in irf-1 gene activation .
the atra -induced expression of irf-1 , an activator of transcription and repressor of transformation , may be one of the molecular mechanism of atra -induced growth inhibition , and the basis for the synergistic action of atra and ifns in myeloid leukemia cell .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 tat upregulates interleukin-2 secretion in activate t cell .
dysregulation of cytokine secrete by t cell may play an important role in the pathogenesis of aid .
to investigate the effect of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) tat on interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) expression , we use il-2 promoter -chloramphenicol acetyltransferase construct and il-2 -secreting jurkat t cell a a model system .
transient expression of hiv-1 tat induce a five- to eightfold increase in il-2 promoter activity in jurkat t cell stimulate with phytohemagglutinin and phorbol myristate acetate .
il-2 secretion be increase more than twofold in both jurkat t cell and primary t cell stimulate by extracellular hiv-1 tat protein .
analysis of mrna suggest that tat exert it effect on il-2 primarily at the transcriptional level .
the nf-kappa b site at position -206 to -195 of the il-2 promoter be require but not sufficient for the tat effect .
the tat -mediated increase in il-2 promoter activity could selectively be block by antisense tat or - unlike the analogous effect of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 tax - by cyclosporin a .
the observe increase in il-2 level might facilitate virus spread from or to t cell .
furthermore , it might contribute to the hypergammaglobulinemia or , together with other cytokine find to be dysregulated , the t-helper cell dysfunction observe in aid patient .
il-12 -induced activation of nk and t cell occur in the absence of immediate-early activation gene expression .
the response of lymphocyte to il-2 and il-12 , involve proliferation , differentiation , and cytokine production , be only partially overlap , and may depend on induce differential expression of specific set of gene .
use reverse-transcription pcr differential display , we isolate an mrna specie express in il-2 - but not il-12 -stimulated nk cell .
this be identify a the mrna encode the transcription factor egr-1 , which be express with fast kinetics in t and nk cell upon il-2 , but not il-12 , stimulation .
analysis of the accumulation of mrna -encoding member of the ap-1 transcription factor family demonstrate that c-fos and junb be also express upon stimulation of nk and t cell with il-2 , but not il-12 , whereas expression of c-jun and jund be not modify by either cytokine .
accordingly , increase ap-1 dna-binding activity and ap-1 -dependent transcriptional activity be detect exclusively in il-2 -stimulated cell .
analysis of the expression of gene report to regulate cytokine -induced proliferation demonstrate that both il-2 and il-12 induce c-myc mrna accumulation in nk and t cell , whereas only il-2 induce bcl-2 expression .
our data provide the first demonstration that il-12 -mediated activation of t and nk cell do not involve expression of member of the immediate-early activation gene family ( egr-1 , c-fos , and junb ) , ap-1 transcriptional activity , or bcl-2 expression .
this indicate that functional difference observe in il-2- and il-12- stimulated cell may depend , at least in part , on differential gene regulation .
function of glutathione and glutathione disulfide in immunology and immunopathology .
even a moderate increase in the cellular cysteine supply elevate the intracellular glutathione ( gsh ) and glutathione disulfide ( gssg ) level and potentiate immunological function of lymphocyte in vitro .
at low gssg level , t cell can not optimally activate the immunologically important transcription factor nf kappa b , whereas high gssg level inhibit the dna binding activity of nf kappa b .
the effect of gssg be antagonize by reduce thioredoxin ( trx ) .
a the protein tyrosine kinase activity p56lck and p59fyn be activate in intact cell by hydrogen peroxide , they be likely target for gssg action .
these redox-regulated enzyme trigger signal cascade for nf kappa b activation and transduce signal from the t cell antigen receptor , from cd4 and cd8 molecule , and from the il-2 receptor beta-chain .
the effector phase of cytotoxic t cell response and il-2 -dependent function be inhibit even by a partial depletion of the intracellular gsh pool .
a signal transduction be facilitate by prooxidant condition , we propose that the well-known immunological consequence of gsh depletion ultimately may be result of the accompany gssg deficiency .
a hiv -infected patient and siv-infected rhesus macaque have , on the average , significantly decrease plasma cyst ( e ) ine and intracellular gsh level , we also hypothesize that aid may be the consequence of a gssg deficiency as well .
a model of latent adenovirus 5 infection in the guinea pig ( cavia porcellus ) .
a model of adenovirus 5 ( ad5 ) infection be develop in guinea pig to begin to study it role in the pathogenesis of peripheral lung inflammation .
forty animal be inoculate intranasally with 10(7.0) pfu of ad5 /animal , and 15 animal inoculate with sterile culture medium serve a control .
viral titre be 10(4.4) , 10(6.1) , 10(5.2) , and 10(2.9) pfu/animal , on day 1 , 3 , 4 , and 7 after infection , respectively .
in situ hybridization to viral dna and immunocytochemistry for ad5 e1a protein localize the virus to airway and alveolar epithelial cell .
histologic examination show an extensive inflammatory cell infiltration around the airway , with epithelial necrosis and an alveolar exudate that cause localized alveolar collapse in the infected area .
immunocytochemistry identify the cell in the infiltrate a cytotoxic t cell .
although all animal 20 and 47 day after infection have seroconverted to ad5 , virus be not detect in these group either by viral plaque assay or in situ hybridization .
ad5 e1a dna be detect by polymerase chain reaction in five of six animal 20 day after infection and in five of five animal 47 day after infection .
in these same animal , e1a protein be detect 20 day after infection in two and 47 day after infection in one while persistent bronchiolitis be observe in four and three animal 20 and 47 day after infection , respectively .
these result demonstrate that the guinea pig provide a useful model to study the role of ad5 infection in chronic airway inflammation .
interleukin 4 activate a signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein which interact with an interferon-gamma activation site-like sequence upstream of the i epsilon exon in a human b cell line .
evidence for the involvement of janus kinase 3 and interleukin-4 stat .
germ line c transcript can be induce by il-4 in the human b cell line , bl-2 .
utilize a ifn-gamma activation site-like dna sequence element located upstream of the i epsilon exon , we demonstrate by gel mobility shift assay that il-4 induce a binding activity in the cytosol and nucleus of bl-2 cell .
this factor be designate il-4 naf ( il-4 -induced nuclear-activating factor ) and be identify a a tyrosine phosphoprotein , which translocate from the cytosol to the nucleus upon il-4 treatment .
because these be the characteristic of a signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein , we determine whether antibody to stat protein will interfere with gel mobility shift and find that antibody to il-4 stat , also know a stat6 , but not antibody to other stat protein , interfere with the formation of the il-4 naf complex .
congruous with the involvement of a stat protein , il-4 induce robust janus kinase 3 ( jak3 ) activity in bl-2 cell .
cotransfection of jak3 with il-4 stat into cos-7 cell produce an intracellular activity which bind the same ifn-gamma activation site-like sequence and comigrated with il-4 naf in electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
these result show that il-4 naf be il-4 stat , which be activate by jak3 in response to il-4 receptor engagement .
ccaat/enhancer binding protein epsilon be preferentially up-regulated during granulocytic differentiation and it functional versatility be determine by alternative use of promoter and differential splicing .
ccaat/enhancer binding protein ( c/ebp ) epsilon be a recently clone member of the c/ebp family of transcription factor and be express exclusively in cell of hematopoietic origin .
the human c/ebpepsilon gene be transcribe by two alternative promoter , palpha and pbeta .
a combination of differential splicing and alternative use of promoter generate four mrna isoforms , of 2.6 kb and 1.3-1.5 kb in size .
these transcript can encode three protein of calculate molecular mass 32.2 kda , 27.8 kda , and 14.3 kda .
accordingly , western blot with antibody specific for the dna-binding domain , that be common to all form , identify multiple protein .
c/ebpepsilon mrna be greatly induce during in vitro granulocytic differentiation of human primary cd34(+) cell .
retinoic acid treatment of hl60 promyelocytic leukemia cell for 24 hr induce c/ebpepsilon mrna level by 4-fold , while prolonged treatment gradually reduce mrna expression to pretreatment level .
transient transfection experiment with expression vector for two of the isoforms demonstrate that the 32.2-kda protein be an activator of transcription of granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor promoter , while the 14.3-kda protein be not .
thus , c/ebpepsilon be regulate in a complex fashion and may play a role in the regulation of gene involve in myeloid differentiation .
tissue factor expression of human monocyte be suppress by lysophosphatidylcholine .
the expression of tissue factor ( tf ) , the principal initiator of coagulation , be increase during inflammation and atherosclerosis .
both condition be promote by lysophosphatidylcholine ( lysopc ) .
we observe in the present study that lysopc ( 1 to 10 micromol/l ) dose-dependently reduce tf activity in human monocyte , a elicit by lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
lysophosphatidylethanolamine ( lysope ) and other lysophospholipids do not affect lp -induced tf activity of human monocyte .
tf antigen expression a elicit by lp be also lower by lysopc .
phospholipid analysis indicate a selective increase in the lysopc content of the monocyte after preincubation with the lysophospholipid .
lysopc inhibit the tf activity of mono mac-6 cell to a similar extent a in the monocyte .
lp binding to plasma membrane receptor and internalization of lp into monocyte be not affect by lysopc .
in contrast , lp -mediated nuclear binding of nuclear factor-kappab/rel to a tf-specific kappab site be inhibit by lysopc .
induction of tf mrna expression by lp tend to be partially reduce by the lysophospholipid .
preincubation with lysopc increase monocytic camp level .
inhibition of adenylyl cyclase by pretreatment with 2'-deoxy-3'-adenosine monophosphate partially reverse the inhibition of tf activity promote by lysopc .
in conclusion , lysopc markedly decrease lp -mediated tf expression of human monocyte , the effect probably be mediate by both transcriptional and posttranscriptional mechanism .
lysopc may thus attenuate activation of coagulation during inflammation and atherosclerosis .
cell-specific expression of helix-loop-helix transcription factor encode by the e2a gene .
the e2a gene encode transcription factor of the helix-loop-helix family that be implicate in cell-specific gene expression a part of dimeric complex that interact with e box enhancer element .
it have previously be show that transcript of the e2a gene can be detect in a wide range of cell type .
we have now examine expression of the mouse e2a gene at the protein level use polyclonal antiserum direct against distinct portion of the e2a protein to probe blot of cellular extract .
a 73 kda protein be identify by this analysis : this protein be highly enrich in cell line of b lymphoid origin a compare to pancreatic beta-cells and fibroblast cell .
the detection of this protein selectively in extract of lymphoid cell correlate with the presence of the e box -binding activity lef1/bcf1 in these cell ; this binding activity be previously show to be efficiently recognize by antiserum direct against e2a gene product .
transfection of cell with full length e2a cdna lead to appearance of protein co-migrating with the 73 kda protein on sd gel electrophoresis and co-migrating with lef1/bcf1 on mobility shift analysis .
our result be consistent with the view that the dna-binding activity lef1/bcf1 be a homodimer of e2a protein ; the selective appearance of this putative cell-specific transcription factor in b lymphoid cell seem to be attributable , at least in part , to the elevated e2a protein concentration in these cell .
efficient transcription and replication of simian immunodeficiency virus in the absence of nf-kappab and sp1 binding element .
ten mutant of the simian immunodeficiency virus ( siv ) sivmac239 bear deletion ( delta ) or substitution ( subst ) in the nf-kappab and/or sp1 binding element be create , and the replicative capacity of the mutant be analyze .
all mutant , include one extensively mutagenized strain entirely miss the nf-kappab and four spl binding element , replicate with wild-type kinetics and to a wild-type level in peripheral blood mononuclear cell culture in 50 to 100 % of the experiment .
one group of mutant replicate very similarly to sivmac239 in kinetics and yield in cemxl74 cell ( 2x nfkappab > or = slvmac239 approximately deltanfkappab approximately deltaspl234 approximately substnfkappab approximately substspl2 approximately substsp23 ) , while a second group replicate with delay or slightly delay kinetics in cemxl74 cell ( sivmac239 > substsp34 > deltanfkappabdeltaspl234 approximately deltanfkappabdeltasp1 > substspl234 ) .
reversion or additional mutation be not detect in the u3 and r region of proviral dna from cemxl74 cell infect with the sivmac239 mutant .
similar result be obtain when mutant of sivmacmer ( a macrophage-competent derivative of sivmac239 ) be test in peripheral blood mononuclear cell and cemx174 culture .
however , the growth of most mutate virus be suppress in primary rhesus monkey alveolar macrophage ( sivmacmer approximately 2xnfkappab approximately substnfkappab > deltanfkappab > deltanfkappab deltaspl234 approximately deltanfkappabdeltaspl > deltaspl234 approximately substspl2 > substsp23 approximately substsp34 approximately substspl234 > or = sivmac239 ) .
thus , change in the sp1 binding site have the most dramatic effect on sivmac replication in primary macrophage culture .
analysis of long terminal repeat -driven secrete alkaline phosphatase activity in transient assay show that , unlike human immunodeficiency virus type 1 , the siv long terminal repeat possess an enhancer region just upstream of the nf-kappab element which maintain significant level of basal transcription in the absence of nf-kappab and sp1 site .
this region be responsive to transactivation by tat .
in addition , the siv tata box be show to be strong than that of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 .
therefore , the surprisingly high replicative capacity of nf-kappab and sp1 binding site mutant of sivmac be due to unique feature or the enhancer/promoter region .
phosphorylation of the transcription factor nfatp inhibit it dna binding activity in cyclosporin a-treated human b and t cell .
cyclosporin a ( csa ) exert it immunosuppressive effect by inhibit the activity of nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) , thus prevent transcriptional induction of several cytokine gene .
this effect be think to be largely mediate through inactivation of the phosphatase calcineurin , which in turn inhibit translocation of an nfat component to the nucleus .
here we report that csa treatment of raji b and jurkat t cell line yield a phosphorylated form of nfatp that be inhibit in dna-binding and in it ability to form an nfat complex with fo and jun .
immunoblot analysis and metabolic labeling with [32p]orthophosphate show that csa alter nfatp migration on sds-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis by increase it phosphorylation level without affect subcellular distribution .
dephosphorylation by in vitro treatment with calcineurin or alkaline phosphatase restore nfatp dna binding activity and it ability to reconstitute an nfat complex with fo and jun protein .
these data point to a new mechanism for csa -sensitive regulation of nfatp in which dephosphorylation be critical for dna binding .
retinoic acid downmodulates erythroid differentiation and gata1 expression in purify adult-progenitor culture .
all-trans retinoic acid ( ra ) be an important morphogen in vertebrate development , a normal constituent in human adult blood and be also involve in the control of cell growth and differentiation in acute promyelocytic leukemia .
we have examine the effect of ra on normal hematopoiesis by use early hematopoietic progenitor cell ( hpc ) stringently purify from adult peripheral blood .
in clonogenetic fetal calf serum -supplemented ( fcs+ ) or -nonsupplemented ( fcs- ) culture treat with saturating level of interleukin-3 ( il-3 ) granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) and erythropoietin ( ep ) ( combine with c-kit ligand in fcs(-)-culture condition ) , ra induce a dramatic dose-dependent shift from erythroid to granulomonocytic colony formation , the latter colony be essentially represent by granulocytic clone .
this shift be apparently not cause by a recruitment phenomenon , because in fcs+ culture , the total number of colony be not significantly modify by ra addition .
in fcs- liquid-suspension culture supplement with saturating ep level and low-dose il-3 /gm-csf , adult hpc undergo unilineage erythropoietic differentiation : here again , treatment with high-dose ra induce a shift from the erythroid to granulocytic differentiation pathway .
study on ra time-response or pulse treatment in semisolid or liquid culture show that early ra addition be most effective , thus indicate that early but not late hpc be sensitive to it action .
we then analyze the expression of the master gata1 gene , which encode a finger transcription factor require for normal erythroid development ; addition of ra to hpc stimulate into unilineage erythropoietic differentiation in liquid culture cause a virtually complete inhibition of gata1 mrna induction .
these result indicate that ra directly inhibit the erythroid differentiation program at the level of early adult hpc , and may lead to a shift from the erythroid to granulocytic differentiation pathway .
this phenomenon be correlate with inhibition of gata1 induction in the early stage of erythropoietic differentiation .
encephalomyocarditis virus internal ribosomal entry site rna-protein interaction .
translational initiation of encephalomyocarditis virus ( emcv ) mrna occur by ribosomal entry into the 5' nontranslated region of the emcv mrna , rather than by ribosomal scanning .
internal ribosomal binding require a cis-acting element term the internal ribosomal entry site ( ire ) .
ire element have be propose to be involve in the translation of picornavirus mrna and some cellular mrna .
internal ribosome binding likely require the interaction of trans-acting factor that recognize both the mrna and the ribosomal complex .
five cellular protein ( p52 , p57 , p70 , p72 , and p100 ) cross-link the emcv ire or fragment of the ire .
for one of these protein , p57 , bind to the ire correlate with translation .
recently , p57 be identify to be very similar , if not identical , to polypyrimidine tract-binding protein .
on the basis of cross-linking result with 21 different emcv ire fragment and cytoplasmic hela extract or rabbit reticulocyte lysate a the source of polypeptide , consensus binding site for p52 , p57 , p70 , and p100 be propose .
it be suggest that each of these protein recognize primarily a structural feature of the rna rather than a specific sequence .
c/ebp activator be require for hiv-1 replication and proviral induction in monocytic cell line .
previous work have show that c/ebp site and c/ebp transcriptional activator be necessary for hiv-1 ltr activity in monocytes/macrophages .
we have investigate the role that c/ebp protein play in induction and replication of hiv-1 .
ectopic expression of the dominant negative c/ebp protein lip inhibit hiv-1 mrna and virus production in activate u1 cell , demonstrate that c/ebp protein be require for provirus induction .
u1 line overexpressing c/ebp activator nf-il-6 produce more viral mrna and virus particle follow cellular activation than control line , demonstrate that c/ebp protein be limit for virus transcription .
hiv-1 harboring mutation within two c/ebp site be cripple in their ability to replicate in u937 promonocytic cell , indicate that these site be require for replication .
these data identify c/ebp protein a regulator of hiv-1 expression in monocytes/macrophages .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) replicative gene expression in tumour cell of aids-related non-hodgkin 's lymphoma in relation to cd4 cell number and antibody titre to ebv .
objective : to determine whether activation of epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) replication in tumour cell of aids-related non-hodgkin 's lymphoma ( arnhl ) be correlate with cd4+ cell count and influence antibody response to ebv [ anti-z epstein-barr replicative activator ( zebra ) , anti-early antigen ( ea ) , anti-viral capsid antigen ( vca ) ] .
design : retrospective study base on immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization to detect ebv replicative gene product in tissue sample from patient affect by arnhl and correlation with cd4+ cell count and result of ebv serology ( include anti- zebra activity ) in serum from the same patient .
method : seventeen out of 22 case of arnhl be select for the presence of ebv [ epstein-barr early region ( eber ) rna-positive ] .
immunohistochemistry be perform with anti- zebra , anti- ea -restricted , anti- vca antibody and in situ hybridization with bhlf1/noti oligoprobes on tumour sample .
result be statistically correlate with those of cd4+ cell count ( 17 out of 17 ) and with anti- ebv antibody titre ( 13 out of 17 ) assess use standard immunofluorescence method and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay procedure use recombinant zebra protein and synthetic peptide a antigen .
result : bzlf1 ( zebra ) or early gene product ( ea-r and ea-d/bhlf1/noti ) be detect in a small proportion ( < 0.01-5 % ) of tumour cell in eight of these 17 case by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization .
demonstration of replicative gene expression do not correlate with either low cd4+ cell count ( p > 0.05 ) or anti- ebv antibody titre ( p > 0.05 ) .
anti- zebra activity be not significantly increase in patient affect with arnhl , the cell of which express replicative gene product ( p > 0.05 ) .
conclusion : the degree of immunodeficiency do not clearly enhance replicative gene expression in tumour cell of arnhl .
ebv serology , include anti- zebra activity , be not a reliable tool for predict the occurrence of such proliferation .
involvement of the n-terminal region of the human mineralocorticoid receptor hormone-binding domain in agonist and antagonist binding a reveal by a new monoclonal antibody .
to gain a good understanding of the mechanism of bind to the human mineralocorticoid receptor ( hmr ) , we develop a new monoclonal antibody ( mab ) raise against the hormone-binding domain ( hbd ) .
for this purpose , mouse be immunize with a fusion protein include the sequence thr729-lys984 of hmr .
after elisa screening , mab 18c7 be select for it specificity towards the hbd .
this antibody recognize both the denature and native mr form , as well a the hetero-oligomeric mr form and the transformed mr state .
by use several hbd subfragments , the mab 18c7 epitope be located in the n-terminal region of the hbd from thr729 to leu765 .
we then study the effect of the antibody on aldosterone and progesterone binding to the hmr .
when 18c7 be incubate with liganded mr , it be able to partly displace ( 20 % ) the hormone from it bind site .
when 18c7 be incubate with mr before aldosterone or progesterone , the antibody inhibit 75-80 % of the binding .
the effect of 18c7 on the binding be similar with both hormone .
a sucrose gradient analysis indicate the simultaneous presence of two kind of receptor complex : the steroid-mr complex and the antibody-mr complex .
after it associate protein , especially the heat-shock protein hsp90 , have be cross-linked with the hmr by dimethylpimelimidate , 18c7 be still able to react with the receptor .
our result indicate that the epitope recognize by 18c7 be directly implicate in hormone binding .
the lack of steroid binding of hbd mutant with the thr729-leu765 sequence delete [ jalaguier , mesnier , leger and auzou ( 1996 ) j.steroid biochem.mol.biol.57 , 43-50 ] support this hypothesis .
because of the similar behaviour of aldosterone and progesterone , we conclude that the n-terminal thr729-leu765 region of the hbd be similarly involve in the binding of both hormone .
molecular basis of a multiple lymphokine deficiency in a patient with severe combined immunodeficiency .
we have previously report that the t lymphocyte of a child with severe combined immunodeficiency be defective in the transcription of several lymphokine gene that include il2 , il3 , il4 , and il5 , which encode interleukin 2 , 3 , 4 , and 5 ( il-2 , -3 , -4 , and -5 ) .
to determine whether the defect in the patient 's t lymphocyte involve a trans-acting factor common to the affect lymphokine gene , we examine the ability of nuclear factor from the patient 's t lymphocyte to bind response element present in the regulatory region of il2 .
nuclear factor nf-kb , activation protein 1 ( ap-1 ) , oct-1 , and nf-il-2b binding activity be normal .
in contrast , the binding of the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) to it response element in the il2 enhancer and to an nf-at -like response element present in the il4 enhancer be abnormal .
to ascertain whether the abnormal nf-at binding activity be related to an impaired function , we transfected patient and control t lymphocyte with construct contain the reporter gene encoding chloramphenicol acetyl transferase ( cat ) under the control of the entire il2 regulatory region or of multimers of individual enhancer sequence .
cat expression direct by the il2 regulatory region or by a multimer of the nf-at -binding site be markedly low in the patient relative to control .
in contrast , cat gene expression direct by a multimer of the oct-1 proximal ( oct-1p ) -binding site be equivalent in patient and control .
these result indicate that an abnormality of/or influencing nf-at may underlie the multiple lymphokine deficiency in this patient .
a functional t-cell receptor signaling pathway be require for p95vav activity .
stimulation of the t-cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) induce activation of multiple tyrosine kinase , result in phosphorylation of numerous intracellular substrate .
one substrate be p95vav , which be express exclusively in hematopoietic and trophoblast cell .
it contain a number of structural motif , include src homology 2 , src homology 3 , and pleckstrin homology domain and a putative guanine nucleotide exchange domain .
the role of p95vav in tcr -mediated signaling process be unclear .
here , we show that overexpression of p95vav alone in jurkat t cell lead to activation of the nuclear factor , include nfat , involve in interleukin-2 expression .
furthermore , p95vav synergizes with tcr stimulation in induce nfat- and interleukin-2- dependent transcription .
in contrast , nfat activation by a g-protein-coupled receptor be not modulate by p95vav overexpression , suggest that the effect be specific to the tcr signaling pathway .
although removal of the first 67 amino acid of p95vav activate it transforming potential in nih 3t3 cell , this region appear to be require for it function in t cell .
we far demonstrate that the p95vav -induced nfat activation be not mimic by ra activation , though it function be dependent upon ra and raf .
furthermore , the activating function of p95vav be block by fk506 , suggest that it activity also depend on calcineurin .
to far dissect p95vav involvement in tcr signaling , we analyze various jurkat mutant deficient in tcr signaling function or tcr expression and show that an intact tcr signaling pathway be require for p95vav to function .
however , overexpression of p95vav do not appear to influence tcr -induced protein tyrosine phosphorylation or increase in cytoplasmic free calcium .
take together , our data suggest that p95vav play an important role at an yet unidentified proximal position in the tcr signaling cascade .
immune response of peripheral blood mononuclear cell to hbx-antigen of hepatitis b virus .
the hepatitis b virus genome encode a transcriptional transactivator protein designate hbxag .
we have investigate whether this antigen be a target structure for human t-lymphocytes .
use recombinant hbxag protein , we find hbxag -specific stimulation of peripheral blood mononuclear cell in patient with acute hepatitis b virus infection ( 6 of 6 ) and chronic hepatitis b virus infection ( 6 of 17 ) but not in healthy individual .
with hbxag -specific synthetic polypeptide , several t-cell epitope be identify .
most be located in the carboxyterminal half of the hbxag protein .
five t-cell clone specific for a t-cell epitope located at the carboxyterminal region of hbxag be establish and find to belong to the cd2/cd4-positive , cd8-negative subtype .
these data establish for the first time hbxag a an antigen in the cellular immune response .
interleukin-12 expression in b cell by transformation with epstein-barr virus .
although interleukin ( il ) -12 be originally purify from an epstein-barr ( ebv ) -transformed b cell line and the high correlation of ebv infection and il-12 expression have be suggest , no study have report whether ebv infection be directly link to il-12 expression .
to address this issue , we have investigate il-12 expression in b cell during in vitro transformation with ebv .
human peripheral b cell become capable of constitutively produce p40 by in vitro transformation with ebv , coincident with the expression of latent membrane protein 1 ( lmp1 ) of ebv .
these b cell express p40 and p35 mrna , and phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) stimulation strongly enhance p40 and p70 production .
furthermore , transfection with lmp1 expression vector into a human b lymphoma cell line , daudi , lead to p40 production with nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappab activation .
these result suggest that transformation of primary b cell with ebv induce il-12 expression potentially through lmp1 expression .
copyright 1998 academic press .
sublethal level of oxidative stress stimulate transcriptional activation of c-jun and suppress il-2 promoter activation in jurkat t cell .
sublethal level of oxidative stress be well know to alter t cell functional response , but the underlying mechanism be unknown .
the current study examine the effect of oxidative stress on transcriptional activity mediate by c-fos/c-jun ap-1 and the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) .
the present result show that jurkat t cell acutely expose to micromolar concentration of h2o2 exhibit substantial increase in ap-1 binding activity and the expression of c-jun but not c-fos mrna .
the preferential induction of c-jun by h2o2 do not represent redox stabilization of mrna transcript , and oxidative signal closely resemble pha/ pma stimulation by effectively transactivating the full length c-jun promoter via the proximal jun1 tumor promoter-responsive element ( tre ) -like promoter element .
similarly , the complex bind the consensus ap-1 tre and jun tre-like motif in cell expose to oxidative signal or pha/ pma be indistinguishable , be compose of c-fos , c-jun , and jund .
however , pha/ pma but not oxidative signal induce the coordinate activation of reporter construct contain the ap-1 -tre , nf-at , and il-2 promoter region along with il-2 mrna expression .
furthermore , sublethal level of h2o2 actively suppress the transcriptional activation of nf-at and il-2 reporter as well a the expression of il-2 mrna in cell stimulate with pha/ pma .
gel shift analysis reveal that oxidative suppression of nf-at represent inhibition in the early generation of nfat complex rather than the binding of preformed nf-at complex .
these result suggest that oxidative signal can positively and negatively regulate t cell transcriptional event and that change in cellular redox can uncouple ap-1 regulation of c-jun from transcriptional up-regulation of il-2 via nf-at .
cloning and characterization of nf-atc and nf-atp : the cytoplasmic component of nf-at .
present evidence indicate a pathway of signal transmission in t cell that be outline in figure 1 .
the elevation in intracellular calcium that be induce by interaction at the antigen receptor lead to the activation of the calcium-dependent phosphatase calcineurin .
this in turn lead to the nuclear association of the cytosolic component of nf-atc .
the activation of calcineurin and the nuclear import of nf-atc can both be block by cyclosporin a or fk506 in complex with their respective immunophilins .
once in the nucleus , nf-atc interact with nf-atn to form an active transcriptional complex .
nf-atn be a ubiquitous protein , can be synthesize in response to pma , and have many similarity to ap-1 .
the mechanism by which nf-atc enter the nucleus be unknown , and although it appear to require calcineurin , nf-atc have not yet be show to be an in vivo substrate of calcineurin .
alternative mechanism include the possibility that nf-atc operate on some cytoplasmic anchor or that other protein that be control by calcineurin carry out the nuclear import of nf-atc .
although nf-atp copurifies with nf-atc , there be as yet no understanding of how nf-atp be function in vivo .
now that these protein be purify and clone , the major goal will be to understand their role and the role of other family member in thymic development .
a critical role of sp1- and ets- related transcription factor in maintain ctl-specific expression of the mouse perforin gene .
this study be design to determine the potential cis-elements involve in transcriptional regulation of the mouse perforin gene .
dnase i hypersensitive site ( dhs ) mapping reveal that the perforin locus contain six dhs within 7.0 kb of the 5' upstream sequence ( -7.0 kb ) and two dhs in intron 2 .
the six 5' upstream and one intronic dhs be detect in only perforin-expressing lymphocyte .
chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) activity direct by 5' upstream promoter be detect preferentially in perforin-expressing cell line .
a construct term pfp5a contain -795 bp exhibit the high cat activity , and pfp9a20 contain only -73 bp also produce significantly high cat activity in ctll-r8 cell .
the proximal region in pfp9a20 contain two potential sp1 binding site ( gc box and gt box ) and one ets binding site ( eb ) .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay show that each of the cis-elements bind specific protein factor .
when single-point mutation be introduce to each gc box , eb , and gt box in pfp9a20 , at least 3-fold less cat activity be observe in ctll-r8 cell .
to confirm the importance of the three cis-acting element in the perforin gene expression , point mutation be introduce again to each proximal gc box , eb , and gt box of pfp5a .
the point mutation result in a 2.5- to 3-fold reduction of cat activity .
the result suggest that a combination of the three proximal cis-acting element may constitute a minimal region responsible for ctl-specific expression of perforin .
a novel ets-related transcription factor , elf-1 , bind to human immunodeficiency virus type 2 regulatory element that be require for inducible trans activation in t cell .
human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) and hiv-2 be structurally related retrovirus which both cause aid in human .
although both virus establish latency in quiescent human-peripheral-blood t cell , the asymptomatic phase of hiv-2 infection may be more prolonged than that of hiv-1 .
the latent phase of both hiv-1 and hiv-2 infection have be show to be disrupt by t-cell activation , a process that require host cell transcription factor .
in the case of hiv-1 , the transcription factor nf-kappa b be sufficient for inducible transcriptional activation .
in contrast , factor in addition to nf-kappa b be require to activate hiv-2 transcription in infected t cell .
in this report , we demonstrate that a novel ets-related transcription factor , elf-1 , bind specifically to two purine-rich motif in the hiv-2 enhancer .
mutagenesis experiment demonstrate that these elf-1 binding site be require for induction of hiv-2 transcription follow t-cell-receptor-mediated t-cell activation .
moreover , elf-1 be the only factor present in activate t-cell nuclear extract that bind to these site in electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
thus , elf-1 be a novel transcription factor that appear to be require for the t-cell-receptor-mediated trans activation of hiv-2 gene expression .
these result may explain difference in the clinical spectrum of disease cause by hiv-1 and hiv-2 and may also have implication for the design of therapeutic approach to hiv-2 infection .
a novel sp-1 site in the human interleukin-1 beta promoter confer preferential transcriptional activity in keratinocytes .
to investigate the mechanism of transcriptional activation of interleukin-1beta ( il-1beta ) in non-monocytic cell , we construct a series of reporter plasmid with the bacterial chloramphenicol acetyltransferase gene link to various part of the human il-1beta promoter and perform transient transfection experiment .
we identify a promoter segment that activate transcription most efficiently in keratinocytes .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) with a 43-mer oligonucleotide derive from the functionally identify cis-acting element reveal specific complex .
by competition analysis with transcription factor consensus sequence oligonucleotides and by immunosupershift , transcription factor sp-1 or a closely related protein be show to bind to this regulatory element .
the close match to the know sp-1 consensus sequence within the respective region be a tcccctcccct motif .
mutation of this motif almost completely , and specifically , abolish the binding of two low-mobility complex and lead to a 95 % decrease of constitutive transcriptional activation of a reporter construct il-1beta ( -170/+108 ) .
likewise , activation of this reporter construct by tumor necrosis factor-alpha depend on the sp-1 site .
these observation suggest that a so-far-unrecognized sp-1 site in the human il-1beta promoter may participate in the transcriptional regulation of this gene in keratinocytes .
uncouple activation-dependent hs1 phosphorylation from nuclear factor of activate t cell transcriptional activation in jurkat t cell : differential signaling through cd3 and the costimulatory receptor cd2 and cd28 .
cd3 , cd2 , and cd28 be functionally distinct receptor on t lymphocyte .
engagement of any of these receptor induce the rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of a shared group of intracellular signaling protein , include vav , cbl , p85 phosphoinositide 3-kinase , and the src family kinase lck and fyn .
ligation of cd3 also induce the tyrosine phosphorylation of hs1 , a 75-kda hematopoietic cell-specific intracellular signaling protein of unknown function .
we have examine change in hs1 phosphorylation after differential stimulation of cd3 , cd2 , and cd28 to elucidate it role in t cell and to far delineate the signaling pathway recruit by these receptor .
unlike ligation of cd3 , stimulation with anti- cd28 mab or cho cell express the cd28 ligand cd80 or cd86 do not lead to tyrosine phosphorylation of hs1 in jurkat t cell .
additionally , no tyrosine phosphorylation of hs1 be induce by mitogenic pair of anti- cd2 mabs capable of activate the transcription factor nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) .
costimulation through cd28 and/or cd2 do not modulate the cd3 -dependent phosphorylation of hs1 .
in vivo study indicate that cd3 -induced hsi phosphorylation be dependent upon both the src family tyrosine kinase lck and the tyrosine phosphatase cd45 , do not require mek1 kinase activity , and be regulate by protein kinase c activation .
thus , although cd3 , cd28 , and cd2 activate many of the same signaling molecule , they differ in their capacity to induce the tyrosine phosphorylation of hsi .
furthermore , activation-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of hs1 be not require for nfat transcriptional activation .
be celiac disease due to molecular mimicry between gliadin peptide -hla class ii molecule -t cell interaction and those of some unidentified superantigen ?
this paper present a new hypothesis for the etiology and pathogenesis of celiac disease ( cd ) .
it be our contention that cd be trigger by the binding of one or more gliadin peptide to cd -associated hla class ii molecule .
furthermore , we propose that these putative cd peptide bind to oligosaccharide residue on hla class ii molecule distal to the peptide-binding groove invoke recognition and binding by specialize subset of gamma delta t cell receptor-bearing lymphocyte .
the binding of these gamma delta t cell serve a a signal for abrogation of oral tolerance to ingest protein set in motion a series of immune response direct against the small intestinal epithelium of cd patient .
cd patient be victimize by this self-distructed immune response because of inheritance of certain combination of hla-dq and dr haplotype .
dimer encode by hla-dr haplotype may be the primary restriction element for lectin-like , gliadin peptide while the degree of immune suppression ( or lack thereof ) to ingest gliadins be govern by inherit hla-dq haplotype .
finally , we speculate that molecular mimicry between one or more gliadin peptide and some , a yet unidentified , bacterial or viral superantigen play a role in disease pathogenesis .
thiol modulation inhibit the interleukin ( il ) -1 -mediated activation of an il-1 receptor-associated protein kinase and nf-kappa b .
the interleukin-1 receptor type i ( il-1ri ) be associate with other protein thus form a complex system by which il-1 exert it various signal .
the initiate event be still uncertain , but activation of a recently describe receptor-associated protein kinase be one of the early event detectable ( martin et al. , eur.j.immunol.1994.24 : 1566 ) .
il-1 signaling be commonly accompany by oxidative process and be think to be subject to redox regulation .
we therefore investigate whether the activation of the il-1ri -associated protein kinase could be a target for redox regulation and whether an altered activity of the kinase could influence il-1 -mediated nf-kappa b activation .
a murine t cell line , el4 , be stimulate with il-1 with and without pretreatment with different compound know to influence the cellular redox status .
thiol modifying agent like diamide , menadione , pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate ( pdtc ) , diethyl dithiocarbamate or phenylarsine oxide inhibit the il-1 -induced activation of the il-1ri-associated protein kinase .
n-acetylcysteine , alpha,alpha'-dipyridyl , aminotriazole or nitrofurantoin do not show any effect .
the inhibition by pdtc be reversible unless glutathione synthesis be block by buthionine sulfoximine .
the describe condition which inhibit or prevent the activation of the il-1ri -associated kinase similarly impair the activation of nf-kappa b in el4 cell .
from these observation we conclude that free thiols in the il-1ri complex be essential for the activation of the il-1ri -associated protein kinase and that this process be mandatory for il-1 signaling lead to nf-kappa b activation .
erythropoietin induce tyrosine phosphorylation of jak2 , stat5a , and stat5b in primary culture human erythroid precursor .
we examine signaling by erythropoietin in highly purify human colony forming unit-erythroid cell , generate in vitro from cd34(+) cell .
we find that erythropoietin induce tyrosine phosphorylation of jak2 , stat5a , and stat5b .
tyrosine phosphorylation of jak2 reach a peak around 10 minute after stimulation and be maximum at 5 u/ml of erythropoietin .
tyrosine phosphorylation of stat5 be accompany by the translocation of activate stat5 to the nucleus a show by electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsa ) use 32pi-labeled stat5 binding site in the beta-casein promoter .
tyrosine phosphorylation stat1 or stat3 be not detect in human erythroid precursor after stimulation with erythropoietin .
crkl , an sh2/sh3 adapter protein , become coimmunoprecipitated specifically with stat5 from erythropoietin -stimulated erythroid cell ; although it be show to become associate with c-cbl in the study use cell line .
thus , human erythroid precursor can be expand in vitro in sufficient number and purity to allow it usage in signal transduction study .
this report set a basis for further study on signaling in primary culture human erythroid precursor , which in turn contribute to our good understanding in the differentiation process of erythrocyte and their precursor .
[ the trend of molecular biology study on eosinophil ]
recently , many investigator have be interested in the study on eosinophil biology since gene association with eosinophil such a interleukin-5 or eosinophil granule protein ( epo , ecp , edn , mbp , and clc ) , be isolate .
however , the molecular basis for the commitment of progenitor to the eosinophil lineage have not be determine .
the mechanism by which eosinophil-specific gene encode primary and secondary granule protein ( e.g. ecp , edn , epo , mbp , and clc ) be express and regulate during eosinophilopoiesis be also unknown .
in this paper , i describe the characterization of gene encode eosinophil granule protein and the mrna expression of gata-1 binding transcription factor during eosinophil differentiation .
tissue-specific regulation of the rabbit 15-lipoxygenase gene in erythroid cell by a transcriptional silencer .
the 15-lipoxygenase ( lox ) gene be express in a tissue-specific manner , predominantly in erythroid cell but also in airway epithelial cell and eosinophil .
we demonstrate in this report that the 5' flanking dna of the 15-lox gene contain sequence which down-regulate it activity in a variety of non-erythroid cell line but not in two erythroid cell line .
the element have characteristic of a transcriptional ' silencer ' since it function in both orientation .
the main activity of the silencer have be map to the first 900 bp of 5' flanking dna , which contain nine bind site for a nuclear factor present in non- erythroid cell but not in erythroid cell .
these bind site have similar sequence and multiple copy of the bind site confer tissue-specific down-regulation when attach to a minimal lox promoter fragment .
the 5' flanking dna also contain a cluster of three bind site for the gata family of transcription factor .
pattern of pan expression and role of pan protein in endocrine cell type-specific complex formation .
the pan gene encode at least two distinct transcript , pan-1 and pan-2 ( also know a e47 and e12 , respectively ) , by the mechanism of alternative rna splicing .
northern blot analysis perform on rat and mouse tissue have detect ubiquitously express pan transcript , but the abundance , distribution , and form of pan protein have not be clearly define .
study of cell line represent endocrine , fibroblast , and lymphoid lineage use polyclonal antiserum to detect e2a protein have suggest that significant e2a protein expression be restricted to b-lymphocytes .
we have develop a monoclonal antibody , yae , which be specific for pan/ e2a protein , and have use the yae antibody to examine a variety of endocrine and nonendocrine cell lineage for difference in pan/ protein expression , subcellular localization , and heteromeric complex formation .
in contrast to previous result obtain use polyclonal antiseras to detect pan/ e2a protein , we report comparable level of pan protein in gh/prl- and insulin- producing , b- and t- lymphocyte cell .
ief-1 , a pancreatic beta-cell type-specific complex believe to regulate insulin expression , be demonstrate to consist of at least two distinct specie , one of which do not contain pan molecule .
although it have be postulate that pituitary endocrine cell and pancreatic endocrine beta-cells share identical pan/e2a complex , native-western analysis of pituitary and endocrine beta-cells detect pan protein in distinct cell type-specific complex .
inhibition of lipopolysaccharide -induced monocyte interleukin-1 receptor antagonist synthesis by cortisol : involvement of the mineralocorticoid receptor .
glucocorticoid , a a part of their physiological role in the control of inflammatory and immune process , suppress the expression of interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) and other cytokine .
human monocyte il-1 receptor antagonist ( il-1ra ) messenger ribonucleic acid ( mrna ) expression and protein secretion be inhibit by dexamethasone .
we have now far study the regulation of il-1ra by the major physiological human glucocorticoid , cortisol .
we find that cortisol incubation induce a decrease in il-1ra mrna expression and a significant inhibition of il-1ra protein secretion in cell culture of human peripheral monocyte stimulate with the bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) .
oral administration of 276 mumol cortisol to normal subject also decrease lp -induced il-1ra synthesis in culture monocyte .
by coincubating the monocyte with either the mineralocorticoid antagonist spironolactone or the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist ru 38486 , the in vitro cortisol -induced inhibition of lp -stimulated il-1ra secretion be partially reverse .
the mineralocorticoid aldosterone exert a significant decrease in lp -induced monocyte il-1ra secretion in vitro , which be block by coincubation with spironolactone .
in addition , the expression of mineralocorticoid receptor mrna in human monocyte be observe by pcr of reverse transcribe rna .
our result far indicate that corticosteroid physiologically control the il-1/ il-1ra system during inflammatory or immune process .
moreover , we provide evidence that , in addition to a glucocorticoid receptor -mediated effect , the mineralocorticoid receptor be involve in the inhibition of monocyte il-1ra secretion by cortisol .
epithelial cell-initiated inflammation play a crucial role in early tissue damage in amebic infection of human intestine .
background & aim : entamoeba histolytica infection of the intestine can induce severe gut inflammation .
the aim of this study be to assess the role of the host inflammatory response in the tissue damage observe with amebiasis and the role of the intestinal epithelial cell in initiate that response .
method : e. histolytica infection be establish in human intestinal xenograft in severe combined immunodeficient ( scid-hu-int ) mouse .
human intestinal epithelial cell inflammatory response to amebic infection be inhibit by the intraluminal administration of an antisense oligonucleotide to the human p65 subunit of nuclear factor kappab , and the role of neutrophil in tissue damage observe with amebiasis be study by deplete neutrophil from scid-hu-int mouse .
result : administration of the antisense oligonucleotide block the production of human interleukin 1beta and interleukin 8 by intestinal epithelial cell and inhibit neutrophil influx into the e. histolytica -infected intestinal xenograft .
inhibition of the gut inflammatory response by the antisense oligonucleotide or the depletion of neutrophil from scid-hu-_int mouse block the increase in intestinal permeability observe with amebic infection .
conclusion : intestinal epithelial cell initiate an inflammatory response with result neutrophil-mediated tissue damage in response to e. histolytica infection ; this inflammatory cascade can be block by inhibit the transcription of gene regulate by nuclear factor kappab .
effect of the antisense myb expression on hemin- and erythropoietin- induced erythroid differentiation of k562 cell .
in order to elucidate the role of c-myb gene in erythroid differentiation of k562 cell induce by hemin ( hm ) and erythropoietin ( epo ) , we construct recombinant plasmid that could produce antisense myb rna after induction with dexamethasone .
during treatment with hm , k562 cell constitutively express c-myb mrna , and 50 % of them begin to synthesize hemoglobin ( hb ) .
expression of antisense myb rna reduce the amount of c-myb mrna , and the percentage of hb -synthesizing cell be decrease to 20 % .
in the presence of epo , c-myb mrna decline and 20 % of k562 cell synthesize hb regardless of antisense myb rna expression .
it be suggest that constitutive expression of c-myb mrna be necessary for hm -induced differentiation , and that a decrease in the amount of c-myb mrna induce by antisense myb rna expression suppress hm -induced differentiation .
the amount of c-myb mrna in k562 cell be reduce during the differentiation induce by epo .
expression of gata-1 mrna be almost constant during hm -induced differentiation , but increase during epo treatment .
it be suppose that the mechanism of hm -induced differentiation be distinguish from that of epo -induced differentiation in k562 cell .
[ molecular-biologic aspect of interaction between nervous and immune system ]
the problem of the neuro-immuno interaction on the level of the protein trans-factors , stimulate interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) gene expression be discuss .
the physico-chemical and functional parameter of the low molecular nuclear protein ( sp and bp- 14 , 18 , 19 kds ) isolate from splenic and brain cell of immunized rat be study .
the binding of these protein to the regulatory region of il-2 gene in vitro and stimulation of the il-2mrna synthesis in splenic t- lymphocyte culture in normal condition be show .
the protective effect of sp and bp on the il-2mrna synthesis in stressful condition and by the t-cells treatment with the csa be demonstrate .
gata transcription factor associate with a novel class of nuclear body in erythroblast and megakaryocyte .
the nuclear distribution of gata transcription factor in murine haemopoietic cell be examine by indirect immunofluorescence .
specific bright focus of gata-1 fluorescence be observe in erythroleukaemia cell and primary murine erythroblast and megakaryocyte , in addition to diffuse nucleoplasmic localization .
these focus , which be preferentially find adjacent to nucleoli or at the nuclear periphery , do not represent site of active transcription or binding of gata-1 to consensus site in the beta-globin locus .
immunoelectron microscopy demonstrate the presence of intensely label structure likely to represent the gata-1 focus see by immunofluorescence .
the gata-1 nuclear body differ from previously describe nuclear structure and there be no co-localization with nuclear antigen involve in rna processing or other ubiquitous ( spl , c-jun and tbp ) or haemopoietic ( nf-e2 ) transcription factor .
interestingly , gata-2 and gata-3 protein also localize to the same nuclear body in cell line co-expressing gata -1 and -2 or gata -1 and -3 gene product .
this pattern of distribution be , thus far , unique to the gata transcription factor and suggest a protein-protein interaction with other component of the nuclear body via the gata zinc finger domain .
interleukin -4 and -13 induce upregulation of the murine macrophage 12/15-lipoxygenase activity : evidence for the involvement of transcription factor stat6 .
when human monocyte or alveolar macrophage be culture in the presence of interleukin ( il ) -4 or il-13 , the expression of the reticulocyte-type 15-lipoxygenase be induce .
in mouse a 15-lipoxygenase be not express , but a leukocyte-type 12-lipoxygenase be present in peritoneal macrophage .
to investigate whether both lipoxygenase isoforms exhibit a similar regulatory response toward cytokine stimulation , we study the regulation of the leukocyte-type 12-lipoxygenase of murine peritoneal macrophage by interleukin and find that the activity of this enzyme be upregulated in a dose-dependent manner when the cell be culture in the presence of the il-4 or il-13 but not by il-10 .
when peripheral murine monocyte that do not express the lipoxygenase be treat with il-4 expression of 12/15-lipoxygenase mrna be induce , suggest pretranslational control mechanism .
in contrast , no upregulation of the lipoxygenase activity be observe when the macrophage be prepare from homozygous stat6 -deficient mouse .
peritoneal macrophage of transgenic mouse that systemically overexpress il-4 exhibit a threefold to fourfold high 12-lipoxygenase activity than cell prepare from control animal .
a similar upregulation of 12-lipoxygenase activity be detect in heart , spleen , and lung of the transgenic animal .
moreover , a strong induction of the enzyme be observe in red cell during experimental anemia in mouse .
the data present here indicate that ( 1 ) the 12-lipoxygenase activity of murine macrophage be upregulated in vitro and in vivo by il-4 and/or il-13 , ( 2 ) this upregulation require expression of the transcription factor stat6 , and ( 3 ) the constitutive expression of the enzyme appear to be stat6 independent .
the cytokine -dependent upregulation of the murine macrophage 12-lipoxygenase and it induction during experimental anemia suggest it close relatedness with the human reticulocyte-type 15-lipoxygenase despite their difference in the positional specificity of arachidonic acid oxygenation .
expression of pilot , a putative transcription factor , require two signal and be cyclosporin a sensitive in t cell .
few known gene ( il-2 , member of the il-8 family , interferon-gamma ) be induce in t cell only through the combined effect of phorbol myristic acetate ( pma ) and a ca(2+)-ionophore , and expression of only these gene can be fully suppress by cyclosporin a ( cya ) .
we have identify a putative transcription factor , designate pilot , with an identical dual signal requirement for expression .
induction of the pilot gene be detectable in human t cell 20 min follow activation in the presence of cycloheximide and be fully suppress by cya .
the pilot protein have a calculate m(r) of 42.6 kda and contain three zinc finger of the c2h2-type at the carboxyl-terminus which be highly homologous to the zinc finger region of the transcription factor egr1 , egr2 , and pat 133 .
in contrast to t cell , in fibroblast pilot gene expression require only one signal ( pma ) and be not affect by cya .
this observation directly demonstrate the existence of a ca2+ signal-dependent regulatory element obligatory for expression of some gene in t cell but not in fibroblast .
this differential expression model will be valuable in the dissection of the dual signal pathway in t cell and the effect of cya upon it .
evaluation of monoclonal anti-d reagent use d variant cell .
monoclonal anti-d antibody submit to the third monoclonal international workshop be evaluate against a number of d variant cell use standard serological technique .
the monoclonal antibody be able to discriminate between the cell of category va , vi and dfr but not category iii cell .
cell within each category do not give any aberrant result .
the rh : 33 cell behave a normal rh ( d ) positive cell .
differential nuclear localization of p50 , p52 , and relb protein in human accessory cell of the immune response in situ .
the rel/nf-kappa b protein , p50 , p52 , p65 , c-rel , and relb , constitute a family of transcription factor involve in the positive regulation of a variety of gene during the immune response .
recently , it have be show that relb knockout mouse have no dendritic cell ( dc ) .
an overexpression of p50 have be describe in follicular dendritic cell ( fdc ) .
a constitutive nf-kappa b activity have be report in mature macrophage .
this lead to the hypothesis that some of the rel/ nf-kappa b protein be key nuclear factor in function of accessory cell of the immune response .
therefore , we investigate in situ the nuclear localization of rel/ nf-kappa b protein in accessory cell of the immune system by immunohistochemistry and double labeling by immunofluorescence from five normal human tonsil and five lymph node with follicular hyperplasia .
nuclear p65 and c-rel protein be find in all cell type include lymphocyte .
in germinal center gc , p50 , p52 , and relb be find in the nucleus of fdc only and be not detect in the nucleus of cd68+ cell .
in t cell area , p50 , p52 , and relb be find in the nucleus of hla-dr+ cell with an antigen-presenting cell ( apc ) morphology .
p52 and relb be detect in the nucleus in both cd1a+ and cd68+ cell from the t cell area , whereas p50 be find only in cd68- and cd1a- cell .
cell with nuclear p50 be negative for the cd38 , cd20 and cd2 marker .
these result show that , physiologically , high level of nuclear of p50 , p52 and relb be restricted to accessory cell of the immune system , which include fdc in gc , and dc and macrophage in the t cell zone , that specialize scavenger macrophage from gc do not have detectable level of p52 and relb , whereas macrophage from the t cell area , know to present the antigen to t cell , do have both nuclear p52 and relb , and that in the t cell zone , p52 and relb be located in nucleus of both cd1a+ , cd68+ or both , cell apc , whereas p50 be restricted to cd1a- and cd68-_apc .
the different pattern of p50 , p52 and relb protein nuclear localization may provide insight into their different role during the immune response in vivo .
c-terminal activate and inhibitory domain determine the transactivation potential of bsap ( pax-5 ) , pax-2 and pax-8 .
pax-5 encode the transcription factor bsap which play an essential role in early b cell development and midbrain patterning .
in this study we have analyse the structural requirement for transcriptional activation by bsap .
in vitro mutagenesis and transient transfection experiment indicate that the c-terminal serine / threonine / proline -rich region of bsap contain a potent transactivation domain of 55 amino acid which be active from promoter and enhancer position .
this transactivation domain be find to be inactivate by a naturally occur frameshift mutation in one pax-5 allele of the acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell line reh .
the function of the transactivation domain be negatively regulate by adjacent sequence from the extreme c-terminus .
the activate and inhibitory domain function together a an independent regulatory module in different cell type a show by fusion to the gal4 dna binding domain .
the same arrangement of positively and negatively act sequence have be conserve in the mammalian pax-2 and pax-8 , the zebrafish pax-b as well a the sea urchin pax-258 protein .
these data demonstrate that the transcriptional competence of a subfamily of pax protein be determine by a c-terminal regulatory module compose of activate and inhibitory sequence .
cyclosporin a inhibit early mrna expression of g0/g1 switch gene 2 ( g0s2 ) in culture human blood mononuclear cell .
cyclosporin a ( csa ) may achieve it immunosuppressive effect by inhibit the calcium- and calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin which be require for activation of target gene by member of the nfat ( nuclear factor of activate t cell ) transcription factor family .
among these target gene be the gene encode interleukin-2 ( il2 ) , a cytokine facilitate progression through the g1 phase of the cell cycle .
however , il2 do not reverse csa inhibition , suggest that at least one other nfat-sensitive gene may be involve .
the human g0/g1 switch gene , g0s2 , have potential nfat-binding site in the 5' flank and encode a small basic potential phosphoprotein of unknown function .
use a sensitive , reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) assay , g0s2 mrna level be assay in culture blood mononuclear cell .
freshly isolate cell contain high level of g0s2 mrna which rapidly decline .
this " spontaneous stimulation " be also note with some other g0s gene and have be attribute to some aspect of the isolation procedure .
in cell that have be preincubated to lower mrna level , there be a transient increase in g0s2 mrna , peak between 1-2 h , in response to concanavalin-a ( cona ) , or to the combination of phorbol ester ( tpa ) , and the calcium ionophore , ionomycin .
both these response be inhibit by csa .
our result suggest that g0s2 expression be require to commit cell to enter the g1 phase of the cell cycle , and that , while not exclude other possible target , early inhibition of g0s2 expression by csa may be important in achieve immunosuppression .
g0s2 may be of value a a reporter gene for analyze the mechanism of action of csa and it influence on the positive and negative selection of lymphocyte in response to self and not-self antigen .
inhibition of vitamin d receptor -retinoid x receptor -vitamin d response element complex formation by nuclear extract of vitamin d-resistant new world primate cell .
most new world primate ( nwp ) genus evolve to require high circulating level of steroid hormone and vitamin d .
we hypothesize that an intracellular vitamin d binding protein ( idbp ) , present in both nuclear and cytoplasmic fraction of nwp cell , or another protein ( s ) may cause or contribute to the steroid hormone-resistant state in nwp by disruption of the receptor dimerization process and/or by interference of receptor complex bind to the consensus response element present in the enhancer region of steroid-responsive gene .
we employ electromobility shift assay ( emsa ) to screen for the presence of protein capable of bind to the vitamin d response element ( vdre ) .
nuclear and post- nuclear extract be prepare from two b-lymphoblastoid cell line know to be representative of the vitamin d -resistant and wild type phenotype , respectively .
the extract be compare for their ability to retard the migration of radiolabeled double stranded oligomers representative of the vdres of the human osteocalcin and the mouse osteopontin gene promoter .
a specific , retarded band contain vdr-rxr be identify when wild type cell but not when vitamin d -resistant cell nuclear extract be use in the binding reaction with either probe .
in addition , vitamin d -resistant cell nuclear extract contain a protein ( s ) which be bind specifically to the vdre and be capable of completely inhibit vdr-rxr- vdre complex formation ; these effect be not demonstrate with nuclear extract from the wild type cell line or with the post-nuclear extract of the vitamin d -resistant cell line .
we conclude that a vdre -binding protein ( s ) , distinct from idbp and present in nuclear extract of cell from a prototypical vitamin d -resistant nwp , be capable of inhibit normal vdr-rxr heterodimer bind to the vdre .
human interferon regulatory factor 2 gene .
intron-exon organization and functional analysis of 5'-flanking region .
interferon regulatory factor 2 ( irf-2 ) be a transcriptional regulatory protein that terminate interferon beta expression initiate by interferon regulatory factor 1 .
in this study , we isolate the genomic dna for human irf-2 gene , determine the intron-exon structure of the human irf-2 gene , map the major transcription initiation site , identify a number of potential regulatory element in the 5'-flanking region , and localize the irf-2 gene on human chromosome 4 .
the irf-2 promoter region contain a cpg island , with several gc box , a putative nf-kappa b -binding site , and a caat box , but no tata box .
when the promoter region be link with a heterologous reporter gene , we find that the promoter region be inducible by both interferon ( interferon -alpha and -gamma ) and interferon regulatory factor 1 .
the region which induce these induction be identify a be confine to 40 nucleotide 5' to the major transcriptional initiation site by test a series of clone with truncate promoter of irf-2 .
this region contain element which be share with the transcriptional enhancer of other gene include interferon regulatory factor 1 , interferon beta , and interferon-inducible gene .
these data suggest that interferon regulatory factor 1 not only trigger the activation of the interferon signal transduction pathway , but also may play a role in limit the duration of this response by activate the transcription of irf-2 .
involvement of stat3 in interleukin-6 -induced igm production in a human b-cell line .
interleukin-6 ( il-6 ) be an important b-cell growth and differentiation factor .
il-6 treatment of the human lymphoblastoid cell line , skw6.4 , lead to increase igm production .
we have previously show that il-6 induce activation of jak1 and jak2 in human b cell line .
a chimeric il-6 receptor , comprise of the intracellular tail of the il-6 receptor subunit gp130 fuse to the extracellular domain of the epidermal growth factor ( egf ) receptor , be stably transfected into skw6.4 cell .
egf treatment induce igm production in cell transfected with an intact gp130 cytoplasmic tail , but not in untransfected cell or cell transfected with a cytoplasmic tail lack all four signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) binding site .
moreover , egf treatment induce stat3 phosphorylation in cell transfected with the intact chimeric egf-gp130 receptor along with induction of dna-mobility shift of a classical interferon-gamma-activated site .
to define far the relation between stat3 activation and enhance igm production , we determine the effect of chimeric gp130 on the transcriptional activation of a genetic element link to immunoglobulin production , namely the immunoglobulin heavy chain enhancer ( igh-enhancer ) .
parental as well a transfected skw6.4 cell be transiently transfected with an igh-enhancer -luciferase construct .
the transcriptional activity of the igh-luciferase construct be induce upon ligation of the full-length chimeric receptor but not by truncate gp130 receptor .
moreover , the gp130 -induced activity of this reporter gene be abrogate by stat3ee , a mutant stat3 incapable of bind dna .
these result indicate that il-6 -induced b-cell differentiation , a measure by igm production , may be control by stat3 protein .
identification of a major positive regulatory element located 5' to the human zeta-globin gene .
the function of the zeta-globin promoter be study use a series of zeta-globin promoter deletion construct to drive luciferase expression in transiently transfected human erythroleukemia cell .
the promoter be use without enhancer , or with enhancer derive from the beta-globin locus control region and the alpha-globin hs-40 enhancer .
when transfected into k562 cell , which express zeta-globin , comparable amount of activity be obtain from the -557 and -417 zeta- luciferase construct and the alpha- luciferase construct when no enhancer or the alpha-globin locus enhancer be use .
when the construct be transfected into ocim1 cell , which do not express zeta-globin , the zeta-globin promoter be at best 20 % a active a the alpha-globin promoter .
when sequence from -417 to -207 5' to the zeta-globin mrna cap site be delete , up to 95 % of the zeta-globin promoter activity be lose in k562 cell .
reinsertion of these sequence into zeta- luciferase construct miss the -417 to -207 region show that the sequence lack classical enhancer activity .
point mutation of a gata-1 site at -230 reduce promoter activity by 37 % .
point mutation of a ccacc site at -240 have no effect .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay indicate that the -230 gata-1 site have a relatively low affinity for gata-1 .
these experiment show the presence of a strong positive-acting element , located between -417 and -207 bp 5' to the zeta-globin mrna cap site , be necessary for high-level promoter activity in k562 cell .
this element require gata-1 and additional unknown factor for maximal activity .
identification of transcriptional suppressor protein that bind to the negative regulatory element of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 .
two different protein which independently bind to neighbor sequence within the negative regulatory element ( nre ) of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) be detect in the nuclear extract of a virus-infected human t cell line .
one of the factor bind to a novel dyad symmetrical sequence .
this sequence be well conserve in various hiv-1 isolates and partial homology be find with the promoter region of the human retinoblastoma gene .
similar dna binding activity be detect in a variety of virus-uninfected human t cell line and hela cell by mean of a gel mobility shift assay .
the other factor bind to a putative ap-1 recognition sequence predict for the hiv-1 nre .
however , this factor do not bind to a typical ap-1 site .
the insertion of multiple copy of the bind site for the former or latter factor into a heterologous promoter reduce the promoter activity to one-tenth or one-third , respectively .
thus , each factor may function a a novel negative regulator of transcription .
[ change in leucocytic estrogen receptor level in patient with gynecomastia ]
the number of estrogen receptor ( er ) in human peripheral leucocyte in 13 men with gynecomastia be measure by radioligand binding method . the result be compare with those of 13 sex- and age-matched healthy subject .
it be find that the number of er in leucocyte be significantly increase in gynecomastia ( r of leucocyte be 1054 +/- 254 sites/cell ) .
it suggest that increase of er level play an important role in the pathogenesis of gynecomastia .
detection of oestrogen receptor variant in endometrium , myometrium , leiomyoma and peripheral blood mononuclear cell : comparison to variant present in breast cancer .
oestradiol have mitogenic and regulatory effect on various organ and cell , mediate mainly by it nuclear receptor ( er ) .
the presence of aberrant er form in oestrogen-dependent tumour have be discuss in correlation with tumour progression .
er variant , generate by alternative splicing , have be detect in human breast cancer , but also in normal mammary gland , therefore their role in tumorigenesis have be question .
we have investigate , by the use of the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction amplification technique , the possible existence of er variant in other normal oestrogen target organ and cell , such a uterus ( myometrium and endometrium ) , in peripheral blood mononuclear cell and in a benign uterus tumour ( leiomyoma ) .
we have detect variant er in these sample and have compare the variant profile to that observe in breast cancer .
all tissue and cell study express both wild-type er and variant specie .
variant form encompass er with deletion of exon 2 , 5 and 7 .
variant with exon 5 delete be detect only in peripheral blood mononuclear cell and in breast cancer .
variant with exon 2 and 7 delete be present in all specimen test .
these result corroborate previous finding that the presence of er variant be not a characteristic of breast cancer .
the physiological significance and possible clinical relevance of the variant er form remain to be elucidate .
high level of the dna-binding activity of e2f in adult t-cell leukemia and human t-cell leukemia virus type i -infected cell : possible enhancement of dna-binding of e2f by the human t-cell leukemia virus i transactivating protein , tax .
transcription factor e2f bind to cellular promoter of certain growth- and cell cycle- controlling gene and form distinct heteromeric complex with other nuclear protein .
it have therefore be propose that e2f be involve in cellular proliferation control .
human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) be an etiological agent of adult t-cell leukemia ( atl ) .
we show here by mobility-shift assay that e2f -containing dna-binding complex be detect in htlv-i -infected t-cell line and leukemic cell obtain from atl patient but not in an uninfected t-cell line , jurkat , and normal peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
the tax protein , encode by htlv-i , be a potent transcription activator of viral and several cellular gene .
we demonstrate that expression of tax can induce the e2f -containing dna-binding complex in jurkat t cell .
thus , tax , through enhancement of the dna-binding activity of e2f , may be capable of regulate cellular gene expression implicate in the proliferation and transformation of t cell in atl .
this activity may be relevant to the mechanism whereby htlv-i which do not contain oncogene induce neoplasia .
transcriptional regulation during t-cell development : the alpha tcr gene a a molecular model .
the regulation of gene expression during lymphocyte differentiation be a complex process involve interaction between multiple positive and negative transcriptional regulatory element .
in this article , transcriptional regulation of the archetypal t-cell -specific gene , alpha tcr , be discuss .
major recent development , include the identification of novel family of transcription factor that regulate multiple t-cell gene during thymocyte ontogeny and t-cell activation , be describe .
constitutive nf-kappa b activation , enhance granulopoiesis , and neonatal lethality in i kappa b alpha -deficient mouse .
transcription factor belong to the nf-kappa b family be control by inhibitory i kappa b protein , mainly i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta .
apparently normal at birth , i kappa b alpha -/- mouse exhibit severe runting , skin defect , and extensive granulopoiesis postnatally , typically die by 8 day .
hematopoietic tissue from these mouse display elevated level of both nuclear nf-kappa b and mrna of some , but not all , gene think to be regulate by nf-kappa b .
nf-kappa b elevation result in these phenotypic abnormality because mouse lack both i kappa b alpha and the p50 subunit of nf-kappa b show a dramatically delay onset of abnormality .
in contrast to hematopoietic cell , i kappa b alpha -/- embryonic fibroblast show minimal constitutive nf-kappa b , as well a normal signal-dependent nf-kappa b activation that be concomitant with i kappa b beta degradation .
our result indicate that i kappa b beta , but not i kappa b alpha , be require for the signal-dependent activation of nf-kappa b in fibroblast .
however , i kappa b alpha be require for the postinduction repression of nf-kappa b in fibroblast .
these result define distinct role for the two form of i kappa b and demonstrate the necessity for stringent control of nf-kappa b .
ifn-gamma and il-10 inhibit induction of il-1 receptor type i and type ii gene expression by il-4 and il-13 in human monocyte .
the th2-type cytokine il-4 and il-13 induce expression of a distinct subset of gene in human monocyte .
these include fc epsilonrii ( cd23 ) , 15-lipoxygenase , il-1 receptor antagonist ( il-1ra ) , and type i and type ii il-1 receptor ( il-1r ) .
ifn-gamma have be show to inhibit induction of cd23 and 15-lipoxygenase in monocyte ; however , the effect of ifn-gamma on type i and type ii il-1r gene expression have not be define .
we examine the effect of ifn-gamma on both basal and il-4 / il-13 -induced il-1r gene expression in primary monocyte .
il-4 and il-13 induce dose- and time-dependent increase in il-1ri and il-1rii mrna level .
ifn-gamma decrease basal expression as well a the induction of these gene by il-4 and il-13 .
inhibition of il-1ri and il-1rii mrna level by ifn-gamma be transcriptionally mediate , and correlate directly with decrease production of soluble il-1rii .
furthermore , the ability to suppress il-1ri and il-1rii mrna level be not unique to ifn-gamma because il-10 also inhibit expression of these gene in il-4 / il-13 -stimulated monocyte .
inhibition of il-1r gene expression by ifn-gamma and il-10 be not due to down-regulation of surface il-4r because pretreatment with these cytokine do not decrease the number of il-4 binding site per cell .
however , suppression of il-1r gene expression by ifn-gamma and il-10 be associate with decrease tyrosine phosphorylation and nuclear translocation of the il-4 / il-13 -inducible transcription factor , stat6 , suggest a potential mechanism by which ifn-gamma and il-10 may mediate their suppressive effect .
these finding demonstrate that certain cytokine , include ifn-gamma and il-10 , antagonize the ability of il-4 and il-13 to induce increase expression of the il-1ri and il-1rii gene in monocyte .
induction of transcription factor in human t lymphocyte by aspirin -like drug .
aspirin-like drug ( ald ) induce calcium mobilization , an essential component of t cell activation , but do not induce the biosynthesis of il-2 .
to understand the extent to which ald may mimic mitogenic stimulation , we study cytoplasmic and nuclear signaling step in ald -treated t cell .
we find that ald induce a transient activation of protein kinase ( pkc ) but have no effect ( in comparison to anti-cd3 antibody ) on protein tyrosine phosphorylation nor on pcl gamma 1 tyrosine phosphorylation .
ald -induced calcium mobilization and pkc activation be independent of tyrosine protein kinase activity a show by the lack of effect of herbimycin , a tyrosine -protein kinase -specific inhibitor .
although we detect no il-2 mrna in ald -treated cell , the nucleus of these cell contain protein capable of bind to three regulatory sequence in the il-2 promoter region : nfat , nf kappa b , and ap-1 .
these binding activity be express only in activate t cell .
the expression of ap-1 depend on calcium mobilization and pkc activation .
these data suggest that ald cause transient but significant change in t cell transmembrane signaling , although some event induce by stimulation with anti-cd3 antibody be not induce by ald .
the signal be transmit to the nucleus and induce dna-binding activity by several transcription factor .
however , the ald stimulus be not capable of cause complete t cell activation .
transcription factor egr-1 activity down-regulates fa and cd23 expression in b cell .
activation of mature b cell via ag receptor cross-linking induce transient expression of the transcription factor egr-1 .
although the activate signal lead to egr-1 induction have be study extensively , little be know about the gene that be place far downstream within this activation cascade and that be transcriptionally regulate by egr-1 .
to identify such target gene , we establish egr-1 -overexpressing transfectants from the murine b cell line k46 and from human ramos b cell .
all clone derive from k46 b cell show increase expression of cd44 .
most interestingly , expression of cd95 ( fa /apo-1 ) and of cd23 be down-regulated in all k46 transfectants .
a a consequence , they become resistant to apoptosis induce by anti-cd95 ab treatment .
similarly , the egr-1 -expressing ramos cell show reduce level of cd95 expression .
thus , egr-1 seem to control the expression of downstream target gene not only a a transcriptional activator , but also a a repressor molecule .
in b cell , egr-1 therefore play a critical role in integrate the short-lived signal deliver by triggering of the ag receptor into phenotypic change , include repression of cd95 and cd23 transcription .
structure and function analysis of the human myeloid cell nuclear differentiation antigen promoter : evidence for the role of sp1 and not of c-myb or pu.1 in myelomonocytic lineage-specific expression .
the human myeloid nuclear differentiation antigen ( mnda ) be express specifically in mature cell of the myelomonocytic lineage and in monocyte and granulocyte .
epitope enhancement be use to confirm the strict lineage- and stage-specific expression of mnda in bone marrow as well a in other paraffin-embedded fixed tissue .
a 1-kb region of the gene that include 5' flanking sequence be report earlier to contain functional promoter activity and be specifically demethylated in express cell in contrast to null cell .
further analysis have reveal that this 1-kb fragment promote high reporter gene activity in mnda -expressing cell than non-expressing cell , indicate cell-specific difference in transactivation .
this sequence contain consensus element consistent with myeloid-specific gene expression , include a pu.1 consensus site near the major transcription start site and a cluster of c-myb site located several hundred base upstream of this region .
however , analysis of deletion mutant localize nearly all of the promoter activity to a short region ( -73 to -16 ) that do not include the cluster of c-myb site .
a 4-bp mutation of the core sp1 consensus element ( gc box ) ( -20 ) reduce overall promoter activity of the 1-kb fragment .
mutation of the pu.1 site do not significantly affect promoter activity .
only a small region ( -35 to +22 ) include the sp1 element and transcription start site , but not the pu.1 site be footprinted .
the 4-bp mutation of the core sp1 consensus element abolish footprinting at the site and an antibody super-shift reaction show that sp1 be one of the factor bind the consensus site .
the sp1 site also co-localizes with a dnase i hypersensitive site .
the result indicate that dna methylation , chromatin structure , and transactivation at an sp1 site contribute to the highly restricted expression of this myelomonocytic lineage specific gene .
bcl-2 protein inhibit bufalin -induced apoptosis through inhibition of mitogen-activated protein kinase activation in human leukemia u937 cell .
in a previous study , we demonstrate that bufalin , which be an active principle of chinese medicine , chan'su , cause apoptosis in human leukemia u937 cell by anomalous activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) via the signaling pathway of ra , raf-1 , and mapk kinase-1 .
here , we report the effect of overexpression of bcl-2 in u937 cell on the signaling pathway of apoptosis that be induce by bufalin .
the result indicate that the apoptosis induce by bufalin in u937 cell be significantly inhibit by overexpression of the bcl-2 protein .
no significant difference be detect in the activation of mapk kinase-1 that be induce by bufalin in wild-type or bcl-2-overexpressed u937 cell ; however , the activation of mapk by bufalin be significantly attenuate in the cell overexpressing bcl-2 .
bufalin treatment activate activator protein-1 transcriptional activity ; however , this activation be decrease to 40 % in bcl-2 -overexpressed u937 cell .
these result indicate that bcl-2 act downstream of mapk kinase-1 but upstream of mapk and suggest that , in the signaling pathway of the apoptotic process induce by bufalin , the transcriptional activity of activator protein-1 may be down-regulated through the inhibition of mapk activity by bcl-2 .
alpha 4 beta 1 ( cd49d/cd29 ) integrin costimulation of human t cell enhance transcription factor and cytokine induction in the absence of altered sensitivity to anti-cd3 stimulation .
the integrin alpha 4 beta 1 can provide a costimulus to induce il-2 secretion and il-2r expression lead to enhance proliferation of purify , peripheral blood t cell .
similar to expression of il-2 , we demonstrate that recombinant vascular-cell adhesion molecule-1 , when co-immobilized with anti-cd3 mab , significantly enhance the induction of transcription factor nf-at , ap-1 , and nf-kappa b a determine by electromobility shift assay .
alpha 4 beta 1 ligation alone have no effect on transcription factor binding .
the requirement for induction of transcription factor reflect the requirement for the secretion of multiple cytokine , include il-2 , tnf-alpha , ifn-gamma , and granulocyte macrophage-csf .
in contrast to freshly isolate t cell , in vitro-cultured t cell do not require costimulation for cytokine secretion in response to anti-cd3 alone .
comparison of the dose response to anti-cd3 stimulation demonstrate that half-maximal induction of il-2 be achieve use the same dose of anti-cd3 for both freshly isolate and culture t cell .
furthermore , the dose of okt3 require to achieve half-maximal activation be the same use pma or different concentration of alpha 4 beta 1 ligand .
therefore , costimulation by alpha 4 beta 1 ligand be not due to stabilization of the interaction of the cell with it substrate .
we conclude , rather , that alpha 4 beta 1 in freshly isolate t cell deliver a distinct signal that synergizes early with signal initiate by tcr/cd3 ligation to induce dna binding of multiple transcription factor require for cytokine gene induction .
expression of ah receptor ( tcdd receptor ) during human monocytic differentiation .
we have previously find a high expression of human ah receptor ( tcdd receptor ) mrna in peripheral blood cell of individual .
in this paper , the expression of this gene in blood cell be first investigate in fraction of nucleated cell , reveal predominant expression of the ah receptor gene in the monocyte fraction .
then the expression level of ahr mrna in various hematopoietic cell line be examine together with those of arnt and p450ia1 .
ahr be express at high level in monocytoid u937 , thp1 , and hel/s cell , and at moderate level in promyelocytic hl60 cell and erythroblastic hel cell .
however , it be not detect in lymphoid cell molt4 ( t cell ) and ball1 ( b cell ) , nor in k562 erythroblast .
furthermore , a specific induction of ahr during monocytic differentiation be investigate in hl60 and hel cell .
hl60 cell be induce to differentiate toward monocytes-macrophages by incubation with phorbol ester , show a 5- to 2-fold increase of ahr mrna .
the incubation with transform growth factor beta 1 and 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 result in a 5- to 7-fold increase of ahr mrna .
the hel cell also exhibit a similar elevation of ahr mrna level , when they have differentiate toward monocyte-macrophage cell by these combined inducer , but little change in the mrna level be observe when the cell be induce to differentiate into other cell type .
treatment of the differentiate hl60 cell with 3-methylcholanthrene , a ligand of ahr , induce the expression of the p450ia1 gene .
these result indicate that expression of ahr mrna be significantly induce during monocytic differentiation and that the differentiate cell be responsive to xenobiotics .
our result suggest that ahr may play an important role in the function of monocyte and also in the eventual activation of environmental carcinogen .
costimulation requirement for ap-1 and nf-kappa b transcription factor activation in t cell .
the transcriptional activity of the il-2 promoter require t-cell costimulation deliver by the tcr and the auxiliary receptor cd28 .
several transcription factor participate in il-2 promoter activation , among which be ap-1 -like factor and nf-kappa b .
protein phosphorylation have an important role in the regulation of these two factor : ( 1 ) it induce the transactivating capacity of the ap-1 protein c-jun ; and ( 2 ) it be involve in the release of the cytoplasmic inhibitor , i kappa b , from nf-kappa b , allow translocation of the latter into the nucleus .
we have recently show that both phosphorylation process require t-cell costimulation .
furthermore , in activate t cell , the kinetics of the two phosphorylation event be essentially similar .
accord to our result , however , the kinase responsible for the two process be distinct entity .
whereas tpck inhibit phosphorylation of i kappa b and , consequently , activation of nf-kappa b , it markedly enhance the activity of jnk , the map kinase-related kinase that phosphorylates the transactivation domain of c-jun .
we , therefore , propose the activation scheme present in figure 3 for t-cell costimulation .
costimulation result in the activation of a signaling pathway that lead to the simultaneous induction of the two transcription factor , ap-1 and nf-kappa b .
integration of the signal generate by tcr and cd28 engagement occur along this pathway , which then bifurcate to induce i kappa b phosphorylation and nf-kappa b activation on the one hand , and jnk activation and c-jun phosphorylation on the other .
we be currently engage in define where the two signal integrate along the ap-1 / nf-kappa b pathway .
the interleukin 2 cd28-responsive complex contain at least three member of the nf kappa b family : c-rel , p50 , and p65 .
optimal activation of t cell require at least two signal .
one signal can be deliver by the antigen-specific t-cell receptor , and the second signal be provide by the costimulatory molecule ( s ) deliver by the antigen-presenting cell .
cd28 be a t-cell surface molecule and stimulation through this protein play an important role in deliver the second activation signal .
in this report , we show that in human peripheral blood t cell , cd28 -mediated signal transduction involve the rel family protein -- c-rel , p50 , and p65 .
treatment of peripheral blood t cell with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) and anti-cd28 monoclonal antibody ( mab ) result in augmentation of nuclear c-rel , p50 , and p65 , and this augmentation can occur in the presence of the immunosuppressant cyclosporin a .
it be also show in this report that , in response to pma/anti-cd28 mab or anti-cd3/anti-cd28 mab , c-rel , p50 , and p65 be associate with cd28 -responsive element present in the promoter of the human interleukin 2 gene .
the functional significance of c-rel involvement in the cd28 -responsive complex be demonstrate by transient transfection analysis , where cotransfection of c-rel augment the level of expression of a chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter gene link to the cd28 -responsive element .
interferon up-regulate stat1 , stat2 , and irf family transcription factor gene expression in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell and macrophage .
ifn signaling be mediate by binding of ifns to their receptor and subsequent activation of janus tyrosine kinase ( jak ) - stat signaling pathway .
stimulation of cell with ifn-alpha lead to the assembly of ifn-stimulated gene factor 3 transcription factor complex form by stat1 , stat2 , and p48 protein .
ifn-gamma signaling be mediate by homodimeric stat1 protein .
although these signal molecule be express constitutively , there be also evidence of transcriptional regulation by ifns .
we have characterize the expression of stat and ifn regulatory factor ( irf ) family transcription factor in primary human blood mononuclear cell and macrophage in response to ifn-alpha and ifn-gamma stimulation .
we show that ifn-alpha and ifn-gamma rapidly and efficiently enhance stat1 , stat2 , p48 , and irf-1 gene expression .
ifn-gamma induce irf-1 gene expression more strongly than ifn-alpha .
stimulation experiment in the presence of protein synthesis inhibitor , cycloheximide , suggest that these gene be activate directly by ifns .
irf-2 gene be apparently only weakly responsive to ifns in these cell .
when macrophage be pretreated with low dos of ifn-gamma and then stimulate with ifn-alpha , clearly enhance formation of specific transcription factor complex be detect .
this suggest that high intracellular level of stat1 , stat2 , and p48 protein may result in enhance signal transduction for cytokine utilize these transcription factor .
host control of hiv-1 parasitism in t cell by the nuclear factor of activate t cell .
post hiv-1 entry , productive hiv-1 infection of primary t cell require overcome several cellular block to provirus establishment and replication .
activation of unknown host intracellular event overcome such inhibitory step and be concomitant with hiv-1 replication .
we show that the transcription factor nfatc be sufficient a a cellular factor to induce a highly permissive state for hiv-1 replication in primary cd4+ t cell .
nfatc overcome a blockade at reverse transcription and permit active hiv-1 replication .
pharmacologic blockade of endogenous nfat activity by fk506 or csa inhibit synthesis of reverse transcription and also potently block hiv-1 replication .
t cell therefore can become competent for hiv-1 replication by control of regulate host factor such a the nfatc transcription factor .
the host mechanism regulate by such permissivity factor be potential target for anti- hiv-1 therapy .
access epstein-barr virus -specific t-cell memory with peptide-loaded dendritic cell .
the conventional mean of study epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -induced cytotoxic t-lymphocyte ( ctl ) memory , by in vitro stimulation with the latently infected autologous lymphoblastoid cell line ( lcl ) , have important limitation .
first , it give no information on memory to lytic cycle antigen ; second , it preferentially amplify the dominant component of latent antigen-specific memory at the expense of key subdominant reactivity .
here we describe an alternative approach , base on in vitro stimulation with epitope peptide-loaded dendritic cell ( dc ) , which allow one to probe the ctl repertoire for any individual reactivity of choice ; this method prove significantly more efficient than stimulation with peptide alone .
use this approach we first show that reactivity to the immunodominant and subdominant lytic cycle epitope identify by t cell during primary ebv infection be regularly detectable in the ctl memory of virus carrier ; this imply that in such carrier chronic virus replication remain under direct t-cell control .
we far show that subdominant latent cycle reactivity to epitope in the latent membrane protein lmp2 , though rarely undetectable in lcl -stimulated population , can be reactivate by dc stimulation and selectively expand a polyclonal ctl line ; the adoptive transfer of such preparation may be of value in target certain ebv-positive malignancy .
purification and characterization of the human sr 31747a-binding protein .
a nuclear membrane protein related to yeast sterol isomerase .
sr 31747a , define a a sigma ligand , be a novel immunosuppressive agent that block proliferation of human and mouse lymphocyte .
use a radiolabeled chemical probe , we here purify a target of sr 31747a and call it sr 31747a -binding protein ( sr-bp ) .
purify sr-bp retain it binding property and migrate on sds-polyacrylamide gel a a mr 28,000 protein .
cloning of the cdna encode human sr-bp show an open reading frame for a 223-amino acid protein , which be homologous to the recently clone sigma 1 receptor .
interestingly , the deduce amino acid sequence be find to be related to fungal c8-c7 sterol isomerase , encode by the erg2 gene .
the erg2 gene product have be identify recently a the molecular target of sr 31747a that mediate antiproliferative effect of the drug in yeast .
northern blot analysis of sr-bp gene expression reveal a single transcript of 2 kilobases which be widely express among organ , with the high abundance in liver and the low abundance in brain .
subcellular localization analysis in various cell , use a specific monoclonal antibody raise against sr-bp , demonstrate that this protein be associate with the nuclear envelope .
when study the binding of sr 31747a on membrane from yeast express sr-bp , we find a pharmacological profile of sigma 1 receptor ; binding be displace by (+)-pentazocine , haloperidol , and (+)-skf 10,047 , with (+)-skf 10,_047 be a more potent competitor than (-)-skf 10,047 .
scatchard plot analysis reveal kd value of 7.1 nm and 0.15 nm for (+)-pentazocine and sr 31747a , respectively , indicate an affinity of sr-bp 50-fold high for sr 31747a than for pentazocine .
additionally , we show that pentazocine , a competitive inhibitor of sr 31747a binding , also prevent the immunosuppressive effect of sr 31747a .
take together , these finding strongly suggest that sr-bp represent the molecular target for sr 31747a in mammalian tissue , which could be critical for t cell proliferation .
ablation of transplant htlv-i tax-transformed tumor in mouse by antisense inhibition of nf-kappa b [ publish erratum appear in science 1993 mar 12 ; 259 ( 5101 ) : 1523 ]
mouse transgenic for the human t cell leukemia virus ( htlv-i ) tax gene develop fibroblastic tumor that express nf-kappa b-inducible early gene .
in vitro inhibition of nf-kappa b expression by antisense oligodeoxynucleotides ( odns ) inhibit growth of these culture-adapted tax-transformed fibroblast as well a an htlv-i -transformed human lymphocyte line .
in contrast , antisense inhibition of tax itself have no apparent effect on cell growth .
mouse treat with antisense to nf-kappa b odns show rapid regression of transplant fibrosarcomas .
this suggest that nf-kappa b expression may be necessary for the maintenance of the malignant phenotype and provide a therapeutic approach for htlv-i -associated disease .
human monocyte bind to fibronectin enhance ifn-gamma -induced early signaling event .
leukocyte integrins be fundamentally important in modulate adhesion to extracellular matrix component and to other cell .
this integrin-mediated adhesion control leukocyte arrest and extravasation during the onset of inflammatory response .
moreover , integrin -ligand interaction trigger signaling pathway that may influence leukocyte phenotype and function at site of inflammation .
in the current study , we evaluate the combinatorial effect of monocyte adhesion and ifn-gamma on intracellular signaling pathway .
ifn-gamma trigger a well-defined signal transduction pathway , which although not directly stimulate by monocyte adherence to fibronectin or arginine-glycine-aspartate ( rgd ) -coated substrata , be enhance significantly in these matrix-adherent cell .
compare with monocyte in suspension or adherent on plastic surface , monocyte adherent to fibronectin or rgd exhibit a great than threefold increase in steady state level of ifn-gamma -induced mrna for the high affinity fc gammari receptor .
by electrophoretic mobility shift assay , this increase in mrna be associate with a 5- to 10-fold increase in the stat1-containing dna-binding complex that bind to fc gammari promoter element .
furthermore , the tyrosine phosphorylation of stat1 and the tyrosine kinase jak1 and jak2 be enhance significantly in rgd -adherent monocyte compare with control cell .
these result suggest a novel mechanism by which integrin -mediated cell adhesion can modulate the magnitude of cytokine -induced signal transduction pathway , thereby amplify cellular event lead to monocyte activation and inflammation .
aml1a but not aml1b inhibit erythroid differentiation induce by sodium butyrate and enhance the megakaryocytic differentiation of k562 leukemia cell .
aml1 may play a role in growth and differentiation of cell along erythroid and/or megakaryocytic lineage , because a significant level of the aml1 gene be express in these cell .
we overexpressed aml1a ( without the transcription-activating domain ) and aml1b ( with the domain ) protein in k562 leukemia cell , which can be induce to differentiate into hemoglobin-producing cell and megakaryocyte .
the aml1a -transfected k562 cell have a reduce capacity to differentiate in the presence of sodium n-butyrate but not in the presence of other inducer , such a hemin , 1-beta-d-arabinofuranosylcytosine , and herbimycin a .
the aml1 antisense oligodeoxynucleotide but not the sense oligomer recover it differentiation-inducing capacity in the presence of butyrate .
on the other hand , aml1b confer a similar differentiation-inducing capacity upon k562 cell transfected with vector alone .
aml1a expression be associate with enhance sensitivity to megakaryocytic differentiation induce by phorbol ester .
these result provide evidence that aml1 protein play a role in erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation .
dna-binding and transcriptional regulatory property of hepatic leukemia factor ( hlf ) and the t(17;19) acute lymphoblastic leukemia chimera e2a- hlf .
the t(17;19) translocation in acute lymphoblastic leukemia result in creation of e2a- hepatic leukemia factor ( hlf ) chimeric protein that contain the dna-binding and protein dimerization domain of the basic leucine zipper ( bzip ) protein hlf fuse to a portion of e2a protein with transcriptional activation property .
an in vitro bind site selection procedure be use to determine dna sequence preferentially bind by wild-type hlf and chimeric e2a- hlf protein isolate from various t(17;19)-bearing leukemia .
all be find to selectively bind the consensus sequence 5'-gttacgtaat-3' with high affinity .
wild-type and chimeric hlf protein also bind closely related site identify previously for bzip protein of both the proline - and acidic amino acid-rich ( par ) and c/ebp subfamily ; however , e2a- hlf protein be significantly less tolerant of certain deviation from the hlf consensus binding site .
these difference be directly attributable to loss of an hlf ancillary dna-binding domain in all e2a- hlf chimera and be far exacerbated by a zipper mutation in one isolate .
both wild-type and chimeric hlf protein display transcriptional activator property in lymphoid and nonlymphoid cell on reporter gene contain hlf or c/ebp consensus binding site .
but on reporter gene with nonoptimal bind site , their transcriptional property diverge and e2a- hlf competitively inhibit activation by wild-type par protein .
these finding establish a spectrum of bind site-specific transcriptional property for e2a- hlf which may preferentially activate expression of select subordinate gene a a homodimer and potentially antagonize expression of others through heteromeric interaction .
thrombin and thrombin receptor agonist peptide induce early event of t cell activation and synergize with tcr cross-linking for cd69 expression and interleukin 2 production .
thrombin stimulation of the t leukemic cell line jurkat induce a transient increase in [ ca2+ ]i .
proteolytic activity of the enzyme be require for this effect since diisopropyl fluorophosphate-thrombin fail to increase [ ca2+ ]i .
furthermore , hirudin and anti-thrombin iii inhibit the thrombin-induced [ ca2+ ]i rise in jurkat t cell .
a synthetic thrombin receptor agonist peptide ( trp ) of 7 residue ( sfllrnp ) be find to be as effective a thrombin for [ ca2+ ]i mobilization , and both agonist induce ca2+ release exclusively from internal store .
thrombin stimulate tyrosine phosphorylation of several protein of molecular mass 40 , 42 , 70 , 120 , and 130 kda .
there be a good correlation between thrombin -induced tyrosine phosphorylation of the latter three protein and ca2+ mobilization .
thrombin and trp also cause translocation of protein kinase c from the cytosol to the plasma membrane .
a a likely consequence of these event , thrombin activate the nuclear factor nf-kb .
several cell line of hematopoietic origin include the leukemic t cell line hpb.all and the erythroleukemic cell line k562 be responsive to thrombin , whereas others such a thp1 , a myelomonocytic cell line , and bl2 , a burkitt lymphoma be refractory to thrombin or trp stimulation .
the magnitude of the thrombin response in the different cell type parallel the expression of the thrombin receptor mrna .
we find that activation of jurkat t cell by a combination of phytohemagglutinin and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate lead to a dramatic inhibition of thrombin receptor mrna expression and to a concomitant loss of the thrombin response .
finally , we demonstrate that thrombin and trp enhance cd69 expression and interleukin 2 production induce by t cell receptor cross-linking in both jurkat t cell and peripheral blood lymphocyte .
these finding highlight the role of thrombin a a potential regulator of t lymphocyte activation .
interleukin-2 promoter activity in epstein-barr virus -transformed b lymphocyte be control by nuclear factor-chi b .
the regulation of interleukin ( il ) -2 gene expression have be investigate mainly in t lymphocyte , the predominant producer of il-2 .
however , b cell can also synthesize il-2 .
in the present study we analyze the control of il-2 promoter activity in epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) -transformed b cell clone which be capable of secrete il-2 at a low level after stimulation with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and the ca2+ ionophore ionomycin .
transient transfections use reporter construct with multiple of transcription factor binding site from the il-2 promoter [ distal nuclear factor ( nf ) -at , proximal nf-at , ap-1/octamer ( ups ) or nf-chi b ( tced ) site ] be perform .
in ebv-transformed b clone , the chi b site exert the strong inducible activity ; the nf-at binding site show either no or only weak activity compare to jurkat t cell .
an il-2 promoter bear a defective nf- chi b site be completely inactive in ebv-transformed b cell , while it still have activity in jurkat t cell .
in seven ebv-b cell clone or line differ in their capacity to secrete il-2 , the activity of the il-2 promoter correlate well with the status of il-2 secretion .
similarly , a human immunodeficiency virus promoter , whose activity be control through chi b factor , be find to be active in the il-2 producing ebv- b cell , but inactive in the non- il-2 -producing cell .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay use protein extract from ebv- b cell and the il-2 nf-chi b probe reveal the constitutive generation of chi b complex in il-2 -secreting cell consist mainly of heterodimeric p50/p65 complex .
a weak chi b complex formation and faster-migrating complex be detect in non- il-2 -secreting cell .
these result demonstrate that the il-2 nf-chi b site be indispensable for the activity of the il-2 promoter in ebv-transformed b cell , whereas other transcription factor appear to be less important for il-2 expression in these cell .
a novel b cell-derived coactivator potentiate the activation of immunoglobulin promoter by octamer-binding transcription factor .
a novel b cell-restricted activity , require for high level of octamer / oct -dependent transcription from an immunoglobulin heavy chain ( igh ) promoter , be detect in an in vitro system consist of hela cell -derived extract complement with fractionate b cell nuclear protein .
the factor responsible for this activity be designate oct coactivator from b cell ( oca-b ) .
oca-b stimulate the transcription from an igh promoter in conjunction with either oct-1 or oct-2 but show no significant effect on the octamer / oct -dependent transcription of the ubiquitously express histone h2b promoter and the transcription of usf- and sp1- regulated promoter .
take together , our result suggest that oca-b be a tissue- , promoter- , and factor- specific coactivator and that oca-b may be a major determinant for b cell-specific activation of immunoglobulin promoter .
in light of the evidence show physical and functional interaction between oct factor and oca-b , we propose a mechanism of action for oca-b and discuss the implication of oca-b for the transcriptional regulation of other tissue-specific promoter .
interleukin-10 and transform growth factor-beta promoter polymorphism in allergy and asthma .
interleukin-10 ( il-10 ) and transform growth factor beta ( tgf-beta ) be inhibitory for b and t cell , ige production , and mast cell proliferation , and they induce apoptosis in eosinophil .
these cytokine be therefore candidate gene which could contribute to the development of asthma or allergy .
we investigate the hypothesis that polymorphic nucleotide within the il-10 and tgf-beta gene promoter would link to the expression of allergy and asthma .
dna take from family with an asthmatic proband be examine for base exchange by single-stranded conformational polymorphism ( sscp ) .
we demonstrate the presence of a polymorphism in the promoter region of the il-10 gene and four in the tgf-beta gene promoter ( 3 in tgf-beta1 and 1 in tgf-beta2 ) .
the il-10 gene polymorphism be a c -to- a exchange 571 base pair upstream from the translation start site and be present between consensus binding sequence for sp1 and elevated total serum .
this polymorphism be associate with elevated total serum ige in subject heterozygotic or homozygotic for this base exchange ( p < 0.009 ) .
the base exchange at -509 ( from the transcription initiation site ) in the tgf-beta promoter also link to elevated total ige ( p < 0.01 ) .
this polymorphism represent a c -to- t base exchange which induce a yy1 consensus sequence and be present in a region of the promoter associate with negative transcription regulation .
anoxia/reoxygenation-induced tolerance with respect to polymorphonuclear leukocyte adhesion to culture endothelial cell .
a nuclear factor-kappab -mediated phenomenon .
expose human umbilical vein endothelial cell ( huvecs ) to anoxia/reoxygenation ( a/r ) result in an increase in polymorphonuclear leukocyte ( pmn ) adhesion to huvecs .
this a/r -induced hyperadhesion be completely prevent by a previous ( 24 hour earlier ) exposure of huvecs to a/r .
this phenomenon have be term " a/r tolerance . "
expose huvecs to a/r induce an increase in nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) in huvec nucleus within 4 hour .
interfere with either nf-kappab activation ( proteasome inhibitor ) or translocation ( double-stranded oligonucleotides contain nf-kappab binding sequence ) prevent the development of a/r tolerance ( ie , the increase in a/r -induced pmn adhesion to huvecs be the same after the first and second a/r challenge ) .
no production by huvecs be increase after the second a/r challenge , but not after the first a/r challenge .
inhibition of no synthase ( no ) during the second a/r challenge prevent the development of a/r tolerance with respect to pmn adhesion .
however , while huvecs contain endothelial no protein , no inducible no be detect in either tolerant or nontolerant cell .
further study indicate that inhibition of gtp-cyclohydrolase i ( an enzyme involve in de novo synthesis of an important cofactor for no activity , tetrahydrobiopterin ) prevent the generation of no in a/r -tolerant cell .
extracellular generation of no ( no donor ) do not effect the hyperadhesion response induce by the initial a/r challenge .
a/r also induce an oxidant stress in naive huvecs , but not in a/r -tolerant huvecs .
inhibition of no during the second a/r insult result in the generation of an oxidant stress similar to that observe after the first a/r challenge .
take together , the finding of the present study be consistent with a role for nf-kappab in the development of a/r tolerance ( with respect to pmn adhesion ) , perhaps by transcriptional regulation of gtp -cyclohydrolase .
the increase no production during the second a/r insult reduce pmn adhesion most likely by reduce the intracellular oxidant stress induce by a/r .
the transcription factor , nm23h2 , bind to and activate the translocate c-myc allele in burkitt 's lymphoma .
we have identify an in vivo footprint over the puf site on the translocate c-myc allele in burkitt 's lymphoma cell .
the puf site on the silent normal c-myc allele be unoccupied .
we demonstrate by electrophoretic mobility shift assay , electrophoretic mobility shift assay with antibody , uv cross-linking follow by sds-gel electrophoresis , and western analysis that nm23h2 in b cell nuclear extract bind to the c-myc puf site .
transfection experiment with c-myc promoter construct in both dhl-9 and raji cell reveal that the puf site function a a positive regulatory element in b cell with a drop in activity with mutation of this site .
access to this site be block in the normal silent c-myc allele ; these data suggest that the nm23h2 protein be involve in deregulation of the translocate c-myc allele in burkitt 's lymphoma cell .
negative regulation by hla-do of mhc class ii -restricted antigen processing .
hla-dm be a major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii-like molecule that facilitate antigen processing by catalyze the exchange of invariant chain-derived peptide ( clip ) from class ii molecule for antigenic peptide .
hla-do be a second class ii-like molecule that physically associate with hla-dm in b cell .
hla-do be show to block hla-dm function .
purify hla-dm -do complex could not promote peptide exchange in vitro .
expression of hla-do in a class ii+ and dm+ , do- human t cell line cause the accumulation of class ii- clip complex , indicate that hla-do block dm function in vivo and suggest that hla-do be an important modulator of class ii-restricted antigen processing .
enhancement of human immunodeficiency virus 1 replication in monocyte by 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol .
human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) expression and replication be under tight regulatory control .
we demonstrate that 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol [ 1,25-(oh)2d3 ] enhance the replication of monocyte- and lymphocyte-tropic strain of hiv-1 up to 10,000-fold in monocyte cell line , peripheral blood monocyte , and unfractionated peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
1,25(oh)2d3 be therefore one of the most potent regulator of hiv-1 replication describe to date .
precursor of 1,25(oh)2d3 enhance hiv-1 replication in proportion to their affinity for the 1,25(oh)2d3 intracellular receptor , suggest that 1,25(oh)2d3 influence hiv-1 replication by mechanism involve this receptor .
these study may have important implication for the design of effective therapy of hiv-1 infection .
e1a gene expression induce susceptibility to killing by nk cell follow immortalization but not adenovirus infection of human cell .
adenovirus ( ad ) infection and e1a transfection be use to model change in susceptibility to nk cell killing cause by transient v stable e1a expression in human cell .
only stably transfected target cell exhibit cytolytic susceptibility , despite expression of equivalent level of e1a protein in ad-infected target .
the inability of e1a gene product to induce cytolytic susceptibility during infection be not explain by an inhibitory effect of viral infection on otherwise susceptible target cell or by viral gene effect on class i mhc antigen expression on target cell .
this differential effect of e1a expression on the cytolytic phenotype of infected and stably transfected human cell suggest that human nk cell provide an effective immunologic barrier against the in vivo survival and neoplastic progression of e1a-immortalized cell that may emerge from the reservoir of persistently infected cell in the human host .
reticuloendotheliosis virus long terminal repeat element be efficient promoter in cell of various specie and tissue origin , include human lymphoid cell .
promiscuous transcriptional activity of the reticuloendotheliosis virus ( rev ) long terminal repeat ( ltr ) be detect in transient expression assay use ltr- chloramphenicol acetyltransferase -encoding gene chimera , and cell of diverse specie and tissue type ; level of expression from two different rev ltrs correlate with report of pathogenicity of the respective virus in vivo .
rev do not encode a transactivator target to the viral ltr , and cell infect with marek 's disease virus , a herpesvirus with an overlap host range , do not express factor that preferentially enhance expression from rev or avian sarcoma/leukemia virus ltrs .
rev ltrs work efficiently in human lymphoid cell , and be viable alternative to promoter commonly use for expression of clone gene .
they may also prove useful in the identification of new , ubiquitous cellular transcription factor .
gene transcription through activation of g-protein-coupled chemoattractant receptor .
receptor for leukocyte chemoattractants , include chemokines , be traditionally consider to be responsible for the activation of special leukocyte function such a chemotaxis , degranulation , and the release of superoxide anion .
recently , these g-protein-coupled serpentine receptor have be find to transduce signal lead to gene transcription and translation in leukocyte .
transcription factor , such a nf kappa b and ap-1 , be activate upon stimulation of the cell with several chemoattractants at physiologically relevant concentration .
activation of transcription factor through these receptor involve g-protein coupling and the activation of protein kinase .
the underlying signaling pathway appear to be different from those utilize by tnf-alpha , a well characterize cytokine that induce the transcription of immediate-early gene .
chemoattractants stimulate the expression of several inflammatory cytokine and chemokines , which in turn may activate their respective receptor and initiate an autocrine regulatory mechanism for persistent cytokine and chemokine gene expression .
requirement for induction of vitamin d-mediated gene regulation in normal human b lymphocyte .
mature human lymphocyte be unique target of 1 alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1 alpha,25(oh)2d3 ) in that vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) be not constitutively express , and specific cellular activation signal be require for both the up-regulation of vdr and establishment of reactivity to the lipophilic ligand .
treatment of b lymphocyte with the cytokine il-4 ( il-4 ) , in the absence of prior activation , induce a weak up-regulation of vdr expression but fail to generate vitamin d-responsive element ( vdre ) -reactive nuclear protein complex or to initiate the genomic transcription of 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 24-hydroxylase .
stimulation of b lymphocyte by either ligation of cd40 ag or cross-link the ig receptor be also insufficient to render b lymphocyte responsive to 1 alpha,25(oh)2d3 .
however , this apparent lack of response to the secosterol can be overcome by stimulation of b lymphocyte with a combination of these cellular activation signal , which be sufficient to lead to g1 cell cycle progression .
in the presence of 1 alpha,25(oh)2d3 , cellular activation associate with stimulation of such a progression appear to be sufficient for the up-regulation of vdr message and protein and necessary for the establishment of vdre binding complex and the induction of 24-hydroxylase message .
furthermore , biologic function be modulate , in that the hormone inhibit proliferation in a subset of the activate b cell .
these observation suggest that reactivity to 1 alpha,25(oh)2d3 be tightly regulate in b lymphocyte , require specific signal for it initiation .
the number of glucocorticoid receptor in peripheral human lymphocyte be elevate by a zinc contain trace element preparation .
a trace element preparation ( beres drop plus , bdp ) elevate the number of glucocorticoid receptor ( gcr ) in peripheral lymphocyte isolate both from healthy blood donor and rheumatoid arthritis patient .
this enhancement by bdp be find either for constitutive expression of gcrs or in experiment when the lymphocyte be stimulate by interleukin ( il ) -6 .
there be no significant effect of bdp on il-1 and tumour necrosis factor alpha ( tnf alpha ) -induced change of gcrs .
the effect of bdp be greatly dependent on the presence of zn++ ion in the preparation , since the augment effect be abolish if bdp do not contain zinc .
herpesvirus saimiri immortalize gamma delta t cell line activate by il-12 .
il-12 be a novel heterodimeric cytokine important for the regulation and differentiation of lymphocyte and nk cell .
like other cytokine , il-12 mediate it biologic activity through high-affinity receptor express on responsive cell .
to date , a large number of receptor for il-12 have be find only on pbmc follow activation with pha or il-2 .
to gain further knowledge of the il-12r complex and the il-12 signal transduction pathway in cytotoxic t cell , we study a number of human t cell line that have be transform to permanent growth with herpesvirus saimiri , an oncogenic virus of nonhuman primate .
this paper report the expression of il-12r on a human gamma delta t cell line that respond to il-12 with enhance cytolytic activity and increase expression of cytolytic effector molecule granzyme b and perforin .
use these t cell a a model of il-12 signal transduction , we confirm that these event involve member of the janus kinase family of nonreceptor tyrosine kinase jak2 , tyk2 , and signal transducer and activator of transcription 4 .
a novel mutation in the cod sequence of the fy*b allele of the duffy chemokine receptor gene be associate with an altered erythrocyte phenotype .
the duffy blood group system be of clinical and biological significance .
antibody to duffy antigen be responsible for some case of transfusion incompatibility and newborn hemolytic disease .
the duffy protein be a receptor for the plasmodium vivax erythrocyte-binding protein and be also a receptor for various chemokines ( thus rename duffy antigen receptor for chemokines [ darc ] ) .
the two duffy polymorphic antigen , fya and fyb ( cod by the fy*a and fy*b allele ) , be present on erythrocyte membrane .
the fy(a-b-) phenotype be the predominant one in population of black people and also occur in other population , include some non-ashkenazi jewish group .
the fy(a-b-) phenotype have be associate with a mutation in the fy*b promoter at the gata box that abolish the expression of erythrocyte duffy protein .
we describe here a novel mutation , present in the fy*b cod sequence ( 271c --> t ) , that be associate with some fy(b-) phenotype among non-ashkenazi jew and among brazilian black .
the mutation be present in fy(b-) individual , who have wild-type fy*b gata and carry the previously describe 304g --> a substitution .
the 271c --> t and 304g --> a can be identify by restriction enzyme-generated restriction fragment length polymorphism .
the 271c --> t substitution represent a considerable change in chemical nature ( arg91 --> cys ) , one which may affect the antigenic determinant of darc , and thus be of clinical significance .
the mutation may have implication for some physiological role of darc and be of interest in malaria research and in study of population genetics .
regulation of inosine-5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase type ii gene expression in human t cell .
role for a novel 5' palindromic octamer sequence .
expression of the gene encode human inosine-_5'-monophosphate dehydrogenase ( impdh ) type ii , an enzyme catalyze the rate-limiting step in the generation of guanine nucleotide , be increase more than 10-fold in activate peripheral blood t lymphocyte and be require for t cell activation .
we have examine the 5'-regulatory sequence that be important for the transcriptional regulation of this gene in t cell .
dnase i mapping of genomic dna identify a hypersensitive element near the transcription initiation site .
fine mapping by in vivo footprinting demonstrate five transcription factor binding site that be occupy in both rest and activate peripheral blood t lymphocyte ; these be tandem cre motif , a sp1 site , an overlapping egr-1/ sp1 site , and a novel palindromic octamer sequence ( po ) .
the tandem cre and po site be of major functional importance a judge by mutational and electrophoretic mobility shift analysis .
these data provide evidence that expression of the human impdh type ii gene be predominantly regulate by the nuclear factor atf-2 and an as yet unidentified po -binding protein .
additional major protein-dna interaction do not occur within the promoter region after t lymphocyte activation , indicate a requirement for additional protein-protein interaction and/or post-translational modification of pre-bound transcription factor to account for the observe increase in impdh type ii gene expression .
effect of glucocorticoid on transcription factor activation in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
glucocorticoid have an inhibitory effect on inflammatory and immune response , and this may be through the modulation of transcription factor bind to dna .
the interaction of the transcription factor , activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) , nuclear factor kappa b ( nf kappa b ) , and camp-responsive element binding protein ( creb ) with dna and glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) be analyze in human peripheral blood mononuclear cell by gel mobility shift assay .
tnf-alpha , il-1 beta and phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) treatment increase ap-1 and nf kappa b dna binding by up to 200 % but decrease creb binding ( 38 % ) over a 60-min time course .
dexamethasone produce a rapid and sustained increase in glucocorticoid response element binding and a concomitant 40-50 % decrease in ap-1 , nf kappa b , and creb dna binding that be block by combined dexamethasone and cytokine or pma treatment .
these latter effect be due to increase in the nuclear localization of gr , not to reduce amount of the other transcription factor .
this suggest that in these cell gr within the nucleus interact with cytokine -stimulated transcription factor by the process of cross coupling .
this may be an important molecular site of steroid action .
expression of tal-1 and gata-binding protein during human hematopoiesis .
tal-1 rearrangement be associate with nearly 30 % of human t acute lymphoblastic leukemia .
tal-1 gene encode a putative transcription factor with a basic helix-loop-helix domain and be know to be predominantly express in hematopoietic cell .
we investigate the pattern of tal-1 expression in purify human hematopoietic cell by in situ hybridization and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction analysis .
both method demonstrate that the tal-1 gene be express in megakaryocyte and erythroblast as well a in basophilic granulocyte .
in addition , our result indicate that the tal-1 1a promoter , which contain two consensus gata-binding site , be active mainly in these lineage .
because the gata-1 gene be know to transactivate several gene specific for the erythroid , megakaryocytic , and mastocytic/basophilic lineage , we study gata-1 expression in these purify hematopoietic cell .
we find that gata-1 and tal-1 gene be coexpressed in these three lineage .
remarkably , the expression of both gene be downmodulated during erythroid and megakaryocytic terminal maturation .
in immature hematopoietic cell , tal-1 and gata-1 gene be coexpressed in commit progenitor cell ( cd34+/cd38(2+) ) , whereas they be not detectable in the most primitive cell ( cd34(2+)/cd38- ) .
in contrast , gata-2 be strongly express in both most primitive and commit progenitor cell , whereas gata-3 be mostly detect in most primitive one .
altogether our result strongly suggest that gata-1 modulate the transcription of tal-1 during the differentiation of the erythroid , megakaryocytic , and basosophilic lineage .
second messenger up-regulation of androgen receptor gene transcription be absent in androgen insensitive human prostatic carcinoma cell line , pc-3 and du-145 .
a theoretical pathway of transcriptional regulation of the androgen receptor ( ar ) gene be via a camp response element ( cre ) present in it promoter region ( -508 to -501 ) .
after 20 h of stimulation with 8-bromo-camp , ar mrna be upregulated in lncap but not in either pc-3 or du-145 cell line .
we have demonstrate that the level of cre binding protein ( creb ) be the same in all cell line and that the putative ar-cre form specific and compatible protein interaction with creb .
the ability to regulate ar gene transcription via the second messenger pathway be lose in the pc-3 and du-145 cell line .
this may be an important primary mechanism of androgen insensitivity in prostate cancer .
prostaglandin e2 up-regulates hiv-1 long terminal repeat -driven gene activity in t cell via nf-kappab -dependent and -independent signaling pathway .
replication of human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv-1 ) be highly dependent on the state of activation of the infected cell and be modulate by interaction between viral and host cellular factor .
prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) , a pleiotropic immunomodulatory molecule , be observe at elevated level during hiv-1 infection as well a during the course of other pathogenic infection .
in 1g5 , a jurkat-derived t cell line stably transfected with a luciferase gene drive by hiv-1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) , we find that pge2 markedly enhance hiv-1 ltr -mediated reporter gene activity .
experiment have be conduct to identify second messenger involve in this pge2 -dependent up-regulating effect on the regulatory element of hiv-1 .
in this study , we present evidence indicate that signal transduction pathway induce by pge2 necessitate the participation of cyclic amp , protein kinase a , and ca2+ .
experiment conduct with different hiv-1 ltr -based vector suggest that pge2 -mediated activation effect on hiv-1 transcription be transduce via both nf-kappab -dependent and -independent signaling pathway .
the involvement of nf-kappab in the pge2 -dependent activate effect on hiv-1 transcription be far confirm use a kappab-regulated luciferase encoding vector and by electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
result from northern blot and flow cytometric analysis , as well a the use of a selective antagonist indicate that pge2 modulation of hiv-1 ltr -driven reporter gene activity in study t lymphoid cell be transduce via the ep4 receptor subtype .
these result suggest that secretion of pge2 by macrophage in response to infection or inflammatory activator could induce signaling event result in activation of proviral dna present into t cell latently infect with hiv-1 .
the interleukin-5 /receptor interaction activate lyn and jak2 tyrosine kinase and propagate signal via the ras-raf-1-map kinase and the jak -stat pathway in eosinophil .
we have show that the interaction of interleukin ( il ) -5 with the receptor activate lyn tyrosine kinase within 1 min and jak2 tyrosine kinase within 1-3 min .
il-5 also stimulate gtp bind to p21ras .
the signal be subsequently propagate through the activation of raf-1 , mek , and map kinase a show by their increase autophosphorylation in vitro and phosphorylation in situ .
jak2 kinase have be show to phosphorylate stat nuclear protein .
the activation of stat nuclear factor be study by electrophoretic mobility shift assay use a gamma activation site ( gas ) probe .
we find that il-5 induce two gas-binding protein in eosinophil , one of which be stat1 .
we conclude that il-5 induced signal be propagate through two distinct pathway : ( 1 ) lyn --> ra --> raf-1 --> mek --> map kinase and ( 2 ) jak2 --> stat1 .
interleukin-7 signaling in human b cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia cell and murine baf3 cell involve activation of stat1 and stat5 mediate via the interleukin-7 receptor alpha chain .
interleukin-7 ( il-7 ) stimulate the proliferation of normal and leukemic b and t cell precursor and t lymphocyte .
activation of the jak /stat pathway have be implicate in il-7r signaling .
we investigate which stat complex be form upon stimulation of b cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( bcp-all ) cell with il-7 .
gel retardation assay with stat-binding oligonucleotides show that il-7 induce the formation of two major stat complex in bcp-all cell .
supershifts with anti-stat antibody identify these a stat1 and stat5 complex .
this pattern of stat activation be see in all bcp-all case that respond to il-7 in proliferation assay .
il-7 also induce stat /dna binding in bcp-all case that fail to proliferate in response to il-7 , suggest that the ability of il-7r to activate the jak /stat pathway per se be not sufficient for proliferation induction .
to determine the contribution of the cytoplasmic domain of the il-7 receptor alpha chain ( il-7r alpha ) to activation of stat protein , transfectants of the murine pro-b cell line baf3 be make that express chimeric receptor consist of the extracellular domain of human granulocyte colony-stimulating factor receptor ( g-csf-r ) and the transmembrane and intracellular domain of human il-7r alpha .
activation of the chimeric g-csf-r /il-7r alpha with g-csf result in a full proliferative response and induce the phosphorylation of jak1 but not jak2 .
major stat complex activate by g-csf-r /il-7r alpha contain stat1 or stat5 , while some formation of stat3-containing complex be also see .
these finding establish that stat1 and stat5 , and possibly stat3 , be activate upon stimulation of precursor b cell with il-7 .
the data far indicate that the il-7r alpha chain be directly involve in the activation of jak and stats and have a major role in proliferative signaling in precursor b cell .
expression of the tat protein of hiv1 in human promonocytic u937 cell .
numerous study have show that , upon hiv1 infection , human promonocytic u937 cell be induce to differentiate , a indicate , for example , by increase expression of adhesion molecule .
one of the viral protein involve in this process might be the tat protein .
indeed , this viral protein , which be essential for productive infection , have also be show to display growth-stimulating property and immunomodulatory activity .
in order to apprehend the role of the hiv1 tat gene in induce the differentiation of hiv1 -infected u937 cell , we have successfully introduce this gene into u937 cell by infect them with retroviral particle transduce tat .
the effect of the tat protein constitutively express by these cell upon their differentiation be then evaluate by look for the expression of the c-fos and of the c-fms proto-oncogene which be link to the differentiation of myelomonoblastic cell .
northern blot analysis reveal in these cell , an increase in the transcription of these two proto-oncogene , and this increase be amplify after treatment with phorbol myristate acetate .
no such increase be observe in control u937 cell .
these result indicate that , among hiv1 gene product , the tat protein appear to trigger monocytic differentiation , and suggest that this viral protein direct progenitor of the monocyte/macrophage lineage towards a differentiation stage in which production of viral antigen and virion might be more efficient .
c-fos and c-jun mrna expression in activate cord and adult lymphocyte : an analysis by northern hybridization .
background and objective : to far analyze the neonatal immune response to an antigenic challenge such a blood transfusion , c-fos and c-jun mrna expression be analyze in twelve in-vitro-stimulated normal cord blood and ten in-vitro-stimulated normal adult peripheral blood lymphocyte sample .
material and method : lymphocyte sample be stimulate by either the mitogen phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) or the monoclonal antibody alphacd3 .
proliferation rate and northern blot hybridization be employ .
result : cord lymphocyte reveal a great proliferation rate with pha and alphacd3 than adult lymphocyte ( p = 0.0081 and 0.0023 , respectively ) .
in addition , northern blot analysis of cord and adult sample reveal similar maximal increase in c-fos ( 99+/-15 and 126+/-11 % , p = 0.0126 ) and c-jun ( 123+/-9 and 185+/-38 % , p = 0.0291 ) mrna expression , respectively , as early a 15 min post- alphacd3 stimulation .
adult lymphocyte show an equivalent increase in mrna expression of c-fos and c-jun ( 140+/-25 and 155+/-31 % ) at 30 min post- pha stimulation , while cord lymphocyte maximum c-fos and c-jun expression ( 82+/-6 and 142+/-12 % ) occur at 15 min post- pha stimulation ( c-fos , p = 0.0354 ; c-jun , p = 0.0112 ) .
conclusion : although cord lymphocyte proliferation rate be significantly great than those of adult lymphocyte follow stimulation , lymphocyte activation , a analyze by c-fos and c-jun mrna expression , appear similar in both cord and adult sample .
we conclude that cord lymphocyte activation exhibit an adult-type profile .
nuclear rel-a and c-rel protein complex be differentially distribute within human thymocytes .
nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) /rel protein be inducible transcriptional regulator of numerous cellular gene .
they be particularly abundant in lymphoid tissue and be think to be critical for the transcription of gene involve in immune and inflammatory response .
we have report previously that a nuclear nf-kappa b activity be present in freshly extract human thymocytes in the absence of in vitro treatment of these cell .
in the present report , we identify nf-kappa b protein extract from human thymocyte nucleus a be p50/p65 and p50/c-rel complex .
immunochemical and immunofluorescent staining of thymus section use specific ab allow visualization of nuclear nf-kappa b protein in both thymocytes and nonthymocyte cell .
this detection suggest a preferential activation of p50/c-rel in medullary thymocytes , whereas p50/p65 be present in both cortical and medullary region of human thymus lobule .
however , the intensity of p65 labeling be much high in several thymocytes from the medulla .
p65 , p50 , and c-rel activity be find in both cd4- and cd8- positive thymocytes .
these observation suggest that p65 and c-rel complex play distinct role in gene expression and that both form of nf-kappa b play critical role during late stage of the intrathymic maturation of t cell .
interaction of the human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 tax transactivator with transcription factor iia .
the tax protein of human t-cell lymphotropic virus type 1 ( htlv-1 ) be a 40-kda transcriptional activator which be critical for htlv-1 gene regulation and virus-induced cellular transformation .
tax be localized to the dna through it interaction with the site-specific activator cyclic amp-responsive element-binding protein , nf-kappab , and serum response factor .
it have be suggest that the recruitment of tax to the dna position tax for interaction with the basal transcriptional machinery .
on the basis of several independent assay , we now report a physical and functional interaction between tax and the transcription factor , tfiia .
first , tax be find to interact with the 35-kda ( alpha ) subunit of tfiia in the yeast two-hybrid interaction system .
importantly , two previously characterize mutant with point mutation in tax , m32 ( y196a , k197s ) and m41 ( h287a , p288s ) , which be show to be defective in tax -activated transcription be unable to interact with tfiia in this assay .
second , a glutathione -s-transferase ( gst ) affinity-binding assay show that the interaction of holo- tfiia with gst- tax be 20-fold high than that observe with either the gst- tax m32 activation mutant or the gst control .
third , a coimmunoprecipitation assay show that in htlv-1 -infected human t lymphocyte , tax and tfiia be associate .
finally , tfiia facilitates tax transactivation in vitro and in vivo .
in vitro transcription study show reduce level of tax -activated transcription in cell extract deplete of tfiia .
in addition , transfection of human t lymphocyte with tfiia expression vector enhance tax -activated transcription of an htlv-1 long terminal repeat-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct .
our study suggest that the interaction of tax with the transcription factor tfiia may play a role in tax -mediated transcriptional activation .
a factor know to bind to endogenous ig heavy chain enhancer only in lymphocyte be a ubiquitously active transcription factor .
the transcriptional enhancer located in the first intron of the immunoglobulin heavy chain constant region be a major determinant of b-cell-specific expression of immunoglobulin gene .
like other enhancer , the ig heavy chain enhancer contain several short sequence motif that bind specific transcription factor .
each bind site contribute to the overall activity of the enhancer , however no single element seem absolutely require for activity .
for a good understanding of the ig heavy chain enhancer component , we have clone and analyze individual sequence element .
we find that the factor that bind to the e3 enhancer motif , catgtggc , be a ubiquitous transcription factor .
it be present in an active form in both b cell and non- b cell , where it can mediate transcriptional activation in vitro and in vivo .
however , despite it ability to activate transcription of a transfected reporter gene , the factor be apparently unable to bind to the endogenous ig heavy chain enhancer in non- lymphoid cell : in previous experiment by others , the characteristic in vivo footprint of this factor , designate nf-mue3 , be detect in b cell but not in non-b cell .
from this and other finding the picture emerge that there be at least three category of factor which mediate cell-type-specific transcription in b lymphocyte : ( a ) cell-specific factor such a oct-2a and oct-2b that be not express in most other cell type : ( b ) ubiquitous factor such a nf-kappa b that be constitutively active in b cell but be sequester in an inactive form in other cell ; ( c ) ubiquitously active factor , exemplify by the one bind to the e3 sequence motif .
this factor be present in an active form in a variety of cell type but be apparently unable to bind to the endogenous ig heavy chain enhancer in non-b cell , perhaps due to a non-permissive chromatin structure of the ig heavy chain locus .
phosphatidylinositides bind to plasma membrane cd14 and can prevent monocyte activation by bacterial lipopolysaccharide .
although bacterial lipopolysaccharides ( lp ) and several other microbial agonist can bind to mcd14 ( membrane cd14 ) , a cell-surface receptor find principally on monocyte and neutrophil , host-derived mcd14 ligand be poorly define .
we report here that phosphatidylinositol ( ptdins ) , phosphatidylinositol -4-phosphate , and other phosphatidylinositides can bind to mcd14 .
phosphatidylserine ( p ) , another anionic glycerophospholipid , bind to mcd14 with low apparent affinity than do ptdins .
lp -binding protein , a lipid transfer protein find in serum , facilitate both p - and ptdins - mcd14 binding .
ptdins bind to mcd14 can be block by anti-cd14 monoclonal antibody that inhibit lp -mcd14 binding , and ptdins can inhibit both lp -mcd14 binding and lp -induced response in monocyte .
serum-equilibrated ptdins also bind to mcd14 -expressing cell , raise the possibility that endogenous ptdins may modulate cellular response to lp and other mcd14 ligand in vivo .
differanisole a , a novel antitumor antibiotic , enhance growth inhibition and differentiation of human myeloid leukemia cell induce by 9-cis retinoic acid .
differanisole a , 3,5-dichloro-2-hydroxy-4-methoxy-6-n-propylbenzoic acid , inhibit growth of human myeloid leukemia cell .
the compound induce g1 arrest and granulocytic differentiation of hl-60 cell , although the differentiation-inducing effect be modest .
differanisole a and 9-cis retinoic acid ( 9cisra ) synergistically inhibit the growth and induce functional and morphologic differentiation of hl-60 and nb4 cell , whereas the combined treatment with differanisole a and all-trans retinoic acid or 1alpha,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 be less effective .
similar result be obtain in primary culture of leukemia cell from a patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia .
the synergistic effect on growth inhibition and induction of differentiation require simultaneous treatment with differanisole a and 9cisra .
differanisole a and an rxr-specific ligand ( ro47-5944 ) cooperatively inhibit the cell growth , while the combined effect of differanisole a and an rar-specific ligand am80 be just additive .
differanisole a in combination with 9cisra may have implication for therapy of acute promyelocytic leukemia patient .
antisense oligonucleotides to the p65 subunit of nf-kappa b block cd11b expression and alter adhesion property of differentiate hl-60 granulocyte .
nf-kappa b be a pleiotropic regulator of a variety of gene implicate in the cellular response to injury .
this function have be attribute to the coordinate binding of subunit of nf-kappa b to distinct region of the promoter element of numerous gene , include cytokine , growth factor receptor , and adhesion molecule .
antisense phosphorothioate oligonucleotides to the p50 and p65 subunit of the nf-kappa b complex be use to define the physiologic role of this transcription factor in rest and stimulate granulocyte .
a reduction in the expression of p65 be produce by treatment with the phosphorothioate antisense oligodeoxynucleotide .
this reduction be accompany by rapid change in the cellular adhesion of dimethyl sulfoxide -differentiated hl-60 leukemia cell stimulate by 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate ( tpa ) .
these effect be characterize by a marked reduction in cd11b integrin expression on the surface of treat cell .
furthermore , the p65 antisense oligomer effectively abolish an upregulation of cd11b that be produce by formyl-met-leu-phe and tpa .
however , the p65 antisense phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotide have no significant effect on the production of reactive oxygen intermediate or on phagocytosis by these cell .
these finding indicate that antisense oligomers to p65 can be use to define the role of nf-kappa b in the activation pathway of neutrophil .
surrogate thyroglobulin receptor and t cell proliferation in hashimoto 's thyroiditis .
immunoglobulin molecule on the surface of a b lymphocyte be the endogenous " receptor " to which specific antigen bind .
study in mouse have show that a monoclonal antibody , conjugate with palmitate to provide a lipid tail , can be insert into the cell membrane to provide a " surrogate " antigen receptor .
we have investigate whether a palmitate conjugate of a human monoclonal antibody specific for thyroglobulin ( tg ) could function a a surrogate tg receptor on blood mononuclear cell separate into fraction enrich for t cell or deplete of t cell ( non-t cell ) .
use flow cytometry , we detect surrogate tg receptor on non-t ( but not on t ) cell from 11 of 11 individual study ( 5 hashimoto patient and 6 control donor ) .
in contrast , endogenous tg receptor could only be detect on non- t cell from 1 of 3 hashimoto patient and from 0 of 4 control donor .
because of the efficient binding of tg by surrogate receptor on non-t cell , we assess the ability of such cell to present tg to t cell .
proliferation in response to tg be observe in t cell from only 1 of 5 hashimoto patient .
this low frequency of response be no different from that previously detect use culture of t cell and autologous dendritic cell .
therefore , the successful generation of surrogate receptor on non-t cell be not associate with more efficient tg presentation of t cell .
furthermore , the significance of the present study be that the t cell , not the antigen-presenting cell , be likely to be the limit element in the t cell proliferative response to tg and other thyroid autoantigens .
transcriptional induction of collagenase-1 in differentiate monocyte-like ( u937 ) cell be regulate by ap-1 and an upstream c/ebp-beta site .
in this report , we demonstrate that the ap-1 site and a distal promoter element regulate transcriptional induction of collagenase-1 during monocytic differentiation .
chloramphenicol acetyltransferase expression construct contain region of the human collagenase-1 promoter be stably or transiently transfected into u937 cell , and reporter activity be assess at various time after the onset of phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ( pma ) -mediated differentiation .
rapid and strong induction of promoter activity be lose in construct with a mutant ap-1 element ; however , at 16-96 h post-pma , the mutant collagenase-1 promoter display ap-1 independent pma-mediated transactivation .
the ap-1 mutant construct also show delay transcriptional activation in pma-treated fibroblast .
western and supershift analysis indicate that functional jun and fo protein be present in nuclear extract of pma-differentiated u937 cell .
promoter deletion construct demonstrate the potential role of distal promoter sequence in regulate collagenase-1 transcription .
in particular , western , supershift , and promoter deletion analysis suggest a role for ccaat/enhancer-binding protein-beta ( c/ebp-beta ) binding site between -2010 and -1954 in regulate transcription of collagenase-1 in monocytic cell .
our finding suggest that distinct regulatory element , act somewhat independently of each other , control expression of collagenase-1 .
in addition , our data suggest that the rapid pma-mediated induction of collagenase-1 transcription be control by a mechanism distinct from that regulate the sustained expression of this proteinase in activate macrophage .
epstein-barr virus sm protein .
the protein product of the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) bmlf1 open reading frame have be characterize in the early productive cycle in b95-8 and akata cell .
the sm protein derive from the splice rna join bslf2 to bmlf1 be much the most abundant protein .
sm be a phosphoprotein in ebv -infected cell and can be phosphorylated in vitro with casein kinase ii ( ckii ) .
computer analysis of the sm protein sequence show a c terminal section of sm to be related to genome positional homologues of four other herpesviruses and reveal consensus ckii site near the n terminus of the ebv sm protein , the herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) icp27 protein and the herpesvirus saimiri ( hvs ) open reading frame 57 protein .
site-directed mutagenesis of the consensus ckii site in ebv sm greatly reduce the in vitro phosphorylation of sm by ckii .
the mechanism of transactivation by bmlf1 protein have be controversial but sm be show to transactivate gene expression from a cat reporter construct by increase the amount of cytoplasmic cat mrna .
mutagenesis of the ckii site in sm make no difference to the transactivation in this transient transfection assay .
nuclear factor-kappab induction in cd45ro+ and cd45ra+ t cell subset during aging .
an increase in the ratio of memory to naive t cell have be postulate to underlie immune hyporesponsiveness accompany aging .
our analysis of the induction of nuclear factor-kappab ( nfkappab ) in activate memory ( cd45ro+ ) and naive ( cd45ra+ ) t cell subset from young and elderly donor have demonstrate that , regardless of donor age , memory t cell be not significantly alter in their responsiveness to tnf-alpha -mediated induction of nfkappab .
although treatment with tnf-alpha induce nuclear localization of nfkappab in both memory and naive t cell subset , irrespective of the age of the donor , the level of induce nfkappab be significantly low in both subset of t cell obtain from the elderly , when compare to those in young .
examination of ikappab alpha regulation reveal that tnf-alpha -mediated degradation of ikappab alpha in both memory and naive t cell from the elderly be severely impaired , thus contribute to the lowered induction of the observe nfkappab .
in addition , this age-related decrease in induction of nuclear nfkappab correlate with decrease in intracellular il-2 receptor expression and anti-cd3 -induced proliferation of both memory and naive t cell subset .
take together , our result suggest that the age-related hyporesponsiveness can not be attribute to a skewing of the t cell population towards a memory phenotype in the elderly .
identification of an ionomycin /cyclosporin a -responsive element within the human t cell receptor gamma enhancer .
activation through the ca2+ / calcineurin pathway be essential to the transcription of many cytokine gene .
the conserve cis-acting sequence , ggaaaa , and transcription factor bind to this sequence be involve in the response to increase intracellular ca2+ concentration .
here we report the identification and importance of the same sequence in a non-cytokine gene , the human t cell receptor gamma ( tcrg ) enhancer .
result from site-directed mutation and electrophoretic mobility shift assay strongly suggest that this sequence mediate the ionomycin -induced activation of the tcrg enhancer .
our study provide an explanation for a previous observation that tcrg mrna level , but not mrna level for t cell receptor alpha and -beta , be increase by ionomycin treatment .
the linkage between t-cell and dendritic cell development in the mouse thymus .
thymic dendritic cell ( dc ) mediate negative selection at a relatively late stage of the t-cell developmental pathway .
we present evidence that the development of thymic dc and of t-lineage cell be link via a common precursor at an early stage of thymocyte development .
t-lineage precursor population from the adult mouse thymus , prior to t-cell receptor gene rearrangement , display a capacity to produce dc as well a t cell in the thymus , and be very efficient precursor of dc in culture .
these lymphoid/ dc precursor have little capacity to form myeloid cell , indicate that thymic dc be a lymphoid-related rather than myeloid-related lineage .
in contrast to myeloid-related dc , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor be not require for the development of these lymphoid-related dc in vivo or in vitro .
dc can develop in mutant mouse lack mature t cell , provide the common precursor be present .
however , in mutant mouse lack functional ikaros transcription factor , there be deficiency in lymphoid precursor cell , in mature lymphoid cell and in dc .
glucocorticoid and interferon-alpha in the acquire immunodeficiency syndrome .
some patient with acquire immunodeficiency syndrome ( aid ) develop glucocorticoid resistance characterize by low receptor affinity ( kd ) for glucocorticoid in mononuclear , cell and high value of acth and cortisol .
a glucocorticoid regulate interferon-alpha ( ifn alpha ) production , we hypothesize that ifn alpha , a cytokine produce predominantly by monocyte in aid , should be increase in cortisol -resistant aid , attribute the lack of cortisol inhibition to ifn alpha production .
therefore , we examine glucocorticoid receptor characteristic on monocyte by [3h]dexamethasone binding and measure ifn alpha , cortisol , and acth in aid patient with ( aid -gr ) or without glucocorticoid resistance ( aid -c ) and control ( c ) .
monocyte of aid -gr patient have a receptor kd of 10.5 +/- 4.2 nmol/l that be high than that in the aid -c group ( 2.9 +/- 0.8 nmol/l ) and normal subject ( 2.0 +/- 0.8 nmol/l ; p < 0.01 ) .
ifn alpha level be increase in the aid -gr group ( 17 +/- 6 vs.
4 +/- 1 u/ml in the aid -c group and 2 +/- 0.5 u/ml in the c group ; p < 0.01 ) .
correlation be find between plasma ifn alpha and receptor kd on monocyte of aid -gr ( r = 0.77 ) and between ifn alpha and plasma cortisol in the same group ( r = 0.74 ) .
the poly(i)-poly(c)-induced ifn alpha production by monocyte be inhibit by glucocorticoid in the c and aid -c group ( approximately 80 % inhibition in both group ) ; the effect be reverse by the receptor antagonist ru-38486 .
by contrast , glucocorticoid fail to inhibit ifnalpha production from aid -gr monocyte ( approximately 20 % inhibition ) .
in conclusion , elevated ifn alpha level in aid -gr may be due to the lack of inhibitory effect of cortisol on ifn alpha production due to cortisol resistance in monocyte
a mouse carry genetic defect in the choice between t and b lymphocyte .
transgenic mouse with human cd3epsilon gene have be show to exhibit early arrest of t cell development in the thymus .
the present study show that , instead of t cell , b cell be generate in the thymus of a line , tg epsilon26 , of the human cd3epsilon transgenic mouse .
the accumulation of mature b cell in the thymus be find only in tg epsilon26 mouse , not in other human cd3epsilon transgenic mouse line or other t cell-deficient mouse , include cd3-epsilon knockout mouse and tcr-beta/tcr-delta double knockout mouse .
hang drop-mediated transfer into 2-deoxyguanosine-treated thymus lobe show that lymphoid progenitor cell rather than thymus stromal cell be responsible for abnormal b cell development in tg epsilon26 thymus , and that tg epsilon26 fetal liver cell be destine to become b cell in normal thymus even in the presence of normal progenitor cell undergo t cell development .
these result indicate that lymphoid progenitor cell in tg epsilon26 mouse be genetically defective in thymic choice between t cell and b cell , generate b cell even in normal thymus environment .
interestingly , tg epsilon26 thymocytes express gata-3 and tcf-1 , but not lef-1 and pebp-2alpha , among t cell-specific transcription factor that be involve in early t cell development , indicate that gata-3 and tcf-1 express during thymocyte development do not necessarily determine the cell fate into t cell lineage .
thus , tg epsilon26 mouse provide a novel mouse model in that lineage choice between t and b lymphocyte be genetically defective .
processing of the precursor of nf-kappa b by the hiv-1 protease during acute infection .
transcription of the human immunodeficiency virus type-1 ( hiv-1 ) genome be regulate in part by cellular factor and be stimulate by activation of latently infected t cell .
t-cell activation also correlate with the induction of the factor nf-kappa b which bind to two adjacent site in the hiv-1 long terminal repeat .
this factor consist of two dna-binding subunit of relative molecular mass 50,000 ( 50k ) associate with two 65k subunit .
it be located in the nucleus in mature b cell , but be present in other cell type a an inactive cytoplasmic complex .
external stimulus , include those that activate t cell , result in nuclear translocation of active nf-kappa b .
the cloning of the complementary dna for the 50k subunit help to identify an exclusively cytoplasmic 105k precursor ( p105 ) ( v.b. , p.k. and a.i. , manuscript submit ) .
the expression of active nf-kappa b might therefore also be regulate by the extent of processing of p105 .
because hiv-1 require active nf-kappa b for efficient transcription , we test the effect of hiv-1 infection on the processing of the human 105k precursor .
we show here that the hiv-1 protease can process p105 and increase level of active nuclear nf-kappa b complex .
1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d3 and 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate synergistically induce monocytic cell differentiation : fo and rb expression .
1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d3 and 12-o-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) interact synergistically to induce monocytic differentiation of u937 histiocytic lymphoma cell .
addition of tpa cause an otherwise ineffective dose of 1,25-dihydroxy vitamin d3 to induce differentiation .
the induce differentiation depend on the simultaneous ( vs. sequential ) presence of both agent .
the kinetics of induced differentiation be consistent with a g1 specific cellular response to initiate the metabolic cascade culminate in cell differentiation .
the induce differentiation occur with down-regulation of c-fos protein and an accompany up-regulation of rb protein expression , consistent with a possible need for up-regulated rb expression to maintain a given differentiate phenotype and suppress transcriptional activator that might typically be associate with proliferation .
epstein-barr virus replicative gene transcription during de novo infection of human thymocytes : simultaneous early expression of bzlf-1 and it repressor raz .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) be know to infect b cell and epithelial cell .
we and others have show that ebv can also infect a subset of thymocytes .
infection of thymocytes be accompany by the appearance of linear ebv genome within 8 hr of infection .
circularization of the ebv genome be not detect .
this be in contrast to the infection in b cell where the genome can circularize within 24 hr of infection .
the appearance of the bamhi zlf-1 gene product , zebra , by rt-pcr , be observe within 8 hr of infection .
the appearance of a novel fusion transcript ( raz ) , which comprise region of the bzlf-1 locus and the adjacent brlf-1 locus , be detect by rt-pcr .
zebra protein be also identify in infected thymocytes by immunoprecipitation .
in addition , we demonstrate that the ebna-1 gene in infected thymocytes be transcribe from the fp promoter , rather than from the cp/wp promoter which be use in latently infected b cell .
transcript encode gp350/220 , the major coat protein of ebv , be identify , but we do not find any evidence of transcription from the lmp-2a or eber-1 locus in infected thymocytes .
these observation suggest that de novo ebv infection of thymocytes differ from infection of b cell .
the main difference be that with thymocytes , no evidence could be find that the virus ever circularize .
rather , ebv remain in a linear configuration from which replicative gene be transcribe .
gata-3 repress gp91phox gene expression in eosinophil-committed hl-60-c15 cell .
to study the regulatory mechanism of gp91phox gene expression in eosinophil , we transiently transfected eosinophil-committed hl-60-c15 cell with gp91phox promoter construct , and identify a negative element from bp -267 to -246 of the gp91phox gene , the deletion of which cause an 83 % increase in promoter activity .
electrophoresis mobility shift assay demonstrate gata-3 bind to the gata consensus site from bp -256 to -250 .
an 81 % increment in promoter activity be obtain when a mutation be introduce in the gata-3 binding site of the bp -267 to +12 construct , which be comparable to that of the bp -245 to +12 construct .
we therefore conclude that gata-3 specifically bind to the gata site negatively regulate the expression of the gene in hl-60-c15 cell .
oxidant-regulation of gene expression in the chronically inflamed intestine .
it be become increasingly apparent that the chronic gut inflammation observe in the idiopathic inflammatory bowel disease ( e.g. ulcerative colitis , crohn 's disease ) be associate with enhance production of leukocyte-derived oxidant .
oxidant such a hydrogen peroxide be know to activate certain transcription factor such a nuclear transcription factor kappa beta .
nuclear transcription factor kb ( nf-kappa b ) be a ubiquitous transcription factor and pleiotropic regulator of numerous gene involve in the immune and inflammatory response .
this transcription factor be activate via the selective phosphorylation , ubiquination and degradation of it inhibitor protein i-kb thereby allow translocation of nf-kappa b into the nucleus where it upregulates the transcription of a variety of adhesion molecule ( e.g. icam-1 , vcam-1 ) , cytokine ( tnf , il-1 , il-6 ) and enzyme ( inos ) .
the proteolytic degradation of the post-translationally modify i-kappa b be know to be mediate by the 26 proteasome complex .
base upon work from our laboratory , we propose that inhibition of nf-kappa b activation produce significant anti inflammatory activity which may be mediate by the inhibition of transcription of certain pro-inflammatory mediator and adhesion molecule .
signal transduce through the cd4 molecule on t lymphocyte activate nf-kappa b .
we have demonstrate that native envelope glycoprotein of hiv-1 , gp160 can induce activation of the transcription factor , nf-kappa b .
the stimulatory effect of gp160 be mediate through the cd4 molecule , since pretreatment with soluble cd4 abrogate it activity .
the gp160 -induced nf-kappa b complex consist of p65 , p50 and c-rel protein .
the stimulatory effect of gp160 on nf-kappa b activation be protein synthesis independent , be dependent upon protein tyrosine phosphorylation , and abrogate by inhibitor of protein kinase c .
the gp160 -mediated activation of nf-kappa b in cd4 positive t cell may be involve in biological effect , e.g. , enhance hiv replication , hypergammaglobulinemia , increase cytokine secretion , hypercellularity in bone marrow and apoptosis .
a thymus-specific member of the hmg protein family regulate the human t cell receptor c alpha enhancer .
the human t cell-specific transcription factor tcf-1 alpha play a key role in the tissue-specific activation of the t cell receptor ( tcr ) c alpha enhancer and bind to pyrimidine -rich element ( 5'-pyctttg-3' ) present in a variety of other t cell-specific control region .
use amino acid sequence information derive from the dna affinity-purified protein , we have now isolate cdna clone encode tcf-1 alpha .
the tcf-1 alpha cdna contain a single 68-amino-acid domain that be homologous to a region conserve among high-mobility group ( hmg ) and nonhistone chromosomal protein .
expression of full-length and mutant cdna clone in bacteria reveal that the single hmg motif , which be predict to contain two extend alpha-helical segment , be sufficient to direct the sequence-specific binding of tcf-1 alpha to dna .
northern blot experiment demonstrate far that tcf-1 alpha mrna be highly tissue specific , find primarily in the thymus or t cell line .
the immature cem t cell line express relatively low level of tcf-1 alpha mrna , which be increase upon activation of these cell by phorbol ester .
interestingly , the clone tcf-1 alpha protein be a potent transcriptional activator of the human tcr alpha enhancer in nonlymphoid cell line , whereas the activity of the endogenous protein in t cell line be strongly dependent on an additional t cell-specific protein that interact with the core enhancer .
tcf-1 alpha be currently unique among the newly emerge family of dna-binding regulatory protein that share the hmg motif in that it be a highly tissue-specific rna polymerase ii transcription factor .
[ age-related change in glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte of healthy person and patient with hypertension ]
it have be find that the number of glucocorticoid receptor in lymphocyte of the peripheral blood of healthy elderly subject increase , while the number of mineralocorticoid receptor decrease .
the mechanism of hormone-receptor interaction in hypertension be activate : the number of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid binding site grow in hypertensive patient .
still a more essential rise in the number of receptor be observe in mid-age hypertensive patient than in elderly one .
signal transduction abnormality in t lymphocyte from patient with advanced renal carcinoma : clinical relevance and effect of cytokine therapy .
study have demonstrate abnormality of the cd3/t-cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) and pathway of signal transduction in t lymphocyte from animal and patient with advanced malignancy .
diminish expression of tcrzeta and p56(lck) that be associate with the tcr and reduce nuclear localization of rela contain nuclear factor kappab ( nfkappab ) complex have be note .
these defect have be describe in t cell from patient with malignant melanoma , renal cell carcinoma ( rcc ) , ovarian cancer , and colorectal cancer .
preliminary observation also indicate possible correlation with clinical variable such a stage in select instance .
to far characterize altered expression of tcrzeta , p56(lck) , and impaired activation of nfkappab , t lymphocyte be obtain from 65 patient with rcc , the majority of whom be receive combination cytokine therapy [ interleukin ( il ) -2 , ifn alpha -containing regimen ] and 37 control individual .
in 29 of these patient , level of tcrzeta and p56(lck) be determine by western blot of t-cell lysates and semiquantitated use densitometry .
relative level be then correlate with a series of clinical variable include response to therapy , performance status , survival , disease site , age , and others .
in another group of 28 patient ( three individual from the first group ) , the frequency of abnormal nfkappab activation be study use electrophoretic mobility shift assay after activation of t cell with phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin or anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody .
change in these signal molecule during cytokine treatment be also investigate .
tcrzeta and p56(lck) be detect in the peripheral blood t cell in 27 of 29 patient , and overall , reduce level be note visually in 12 of 29 ( 41 % ) and 13 of 29 ( 45 % ) individual , respectively .
when level be semiquantitated use densitometry , significant decrease of tcrzeta ( p = 0.029 ) and p56(lck) ( p = 0.029 ) but not cd3epsilon ( p = 0.131 ) , compare with control level , be find .
in patient treat with il-2/ ifn alpha -based therapy , relative level of tcrzeta increase significantly ( p = 0.002 ) on day 15 of cycle one compare with the baseline .
correlation of tcrzeta or p56(lck) level with response or disease variable , except for low tcrzeta level ( p < 0.001 ) in the presence of bone metastasis , be not find .
abnormal nfkappab activation after stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate/ionomycin and/or anti-cd3 monoclonal antibody be find in 59 % of patient ( 17 of 28 ) and be not account for by the advanced age of the study cohort .
activation of nfkappab in peripheral blood t cell be inducible during cytokine therapy in four of six individual who display impaired nfkappab activity prior to therapy .
moreover , impaired activation of nfkappab do not appear link to a reduction of tcrzeta expression , because in five patient , normal tcrzeta level be present although kappab binding be not inducible .
in the majority of patient with advanced rcc , peripheral blood t cell express tcrzeta and p56(lck) , and in a subset , reduce level of these tcrzeta associated molecule be see that may increase during cytokine -based therapy .
abnormal activation of nfkappab be also present in > 50 % of patient and may also revert to normal during il-2/ ifn alpha -based treatment .
this alteration in nfkappab activation occur in the presence of normal expression of tcrzeta -associated signaling element .
the clinical significance of these finding remain unclear .
lymphocyte from the site of disease suggest adenovirus be one cause of persistent or recurrent inflammatory arthritis .
the assessment of synovial lymphocyte reactivity to adenovirus antigen stimulation be undertake in patient with persistent or recurrent inflammatory arthritis .
the 3h-thymidine uptake procedure be employ , incorporate multiple microbiological antigen .
five patient be find with repeat maximal response to adenovirus antigen ; in one of these adenovirus nucleotide sequence be present in a synovial biopsy specimen .
it be conclude that adenovirus may be one cause of persistent or recurrent inflammatory arthritis .
modulation of mrna expression of a novel human myeloid-selective ccaat/enhancer binding protein gene ( c/ebp epsilon ) .
human c/ebp epsilon be a newly clone gene cod for a ccaat/enhancer binding protein that may be involve in the regulation of myeloid differentiation .
our study show that level of c/ebp epsilon mrna be markedly increase in nb4 cell ( promyelocytic leukemia line ) , because they be induce by 9-cis retinoic acid ( 9-cis ra ) to differentiate towards granulocyte .
accumulation of c/ebp epsilon mrna occur as early a 1 hour after exposure of nb4 cell to 9-cis ra ( 5 x 10(-7) mol/l ) ; and at 48 hour , level be increase by 5.1-fold .
dose-response study show that 10(-7) to 10(-6) mol/l 9-cis ra ( 12 hour ) result in peak level of c/ebp epsilon mrna ; but even 10(-10) mol/l 9-cis ra increase level of these transcript .
nb4 cell pulse-exposed ( 30 minute ) to all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) , wash , and culture ( 3 day ) with either dimethylsulfoxide ( dmso ) or hexamethylene bisacetamide ( hmba ) have a prominent increase in level of c/ebp epsilon mrna and an increase in granulocytic differentiation , but exposure to either dmso or hmba alone have no effect on base level of c/ebp epsilon and do not induce differentiation .
macrophage-differentiation of nb4 reduce level of c/ebp epsilon mrna .
nuclear run-off assay and half-life study show that accumulation of c/ebp epsilon mrna by 9-cis ra be due to enhance transcription .
furthermore , this c/ebp epsilon mrna accumulation do not require synthesis of new protein factor because 9-cis ra induce c/ebp epsilon mrna accumulation in the absence of new protein synthesis .
atra also induce expression of c/ebp epsilon protein in nb4 cell , a show by western blotting .
in contrast to the increase of c/ebp epsilon in 9-cis ra -mediated granulocytic differentiation , the dmso -induced differentiation of hl-60 cell down the granulocytic pathway be associate with an initial reduction of c/ebp epsilon mrna level .
in summary , we have discover that expression of c/ebp epsilon mrna be markedly enhance a the nb4 promyelocytes be induce by retinoids to differentiate towards granulocyte .
this induction of c/ebp epsilon mrna expression be transcriptionally mediate and occur in the absence of synthesis of additional protein factor .
we suspect that the c/ebp epsilon promoter/enhancer contain a retinoic acid-response element that be directly stimulate by retinoids .
effect of cd45 on nf-kappa b .
implication for replication of hiv-1 .
increase level of replication of the hiv type 1 be observe after the activation of infected t cell through the tcr .
however , anti- cd45 antibody inhibit these effect in cell from infected individual .
in this study , we examine interrelationship between cd45 and hiv-1 far .
we measure effect on the hiv-1 ltr in t cell line that be stimulate with antibody against cd45 and in those that lack the expression of cd45 on their surface .
first , anti- cd45 antibody do not affect basal but decrease activated level of expression from the hiv-1 ltr .
second , t cell , which lack cd45 and can not signal via the tcr , support high level of viral replication and gene expression .
this be due to the presence of active nf-kappa b complex in the nucleus of cd45 -t cell .
additionally , infected t cell display low level of cd45 on their surface .
thus , cd45 play an active role in the physiology of t cell and in the replication of hiv-1 .
carboxyl-terminal 15-amino acid sequence of nfatx1 be possibly create by tissue-specific splicing and be essential for transactivation activity in t cell .
nfat regulate transcription of a number of cytokine and other immunoregulatory gene .
we have isolate nfatx , which be one of four member of the nfat family of transcription factor and be preferentially express in the thymus and peripheral blood leukocyte , and an isoform of nfatx , nfatx1 .
here we provide evidence show that 15 amino acid in the carboxyl-terminal end of nfatx1 be require for it maximum transactivation activity in jurkat t cell .
a fusion between these 15 amino acid and the gal4 dna binding domain be capable of transactivating reporter drive by the gal4 dna binding site .
interestingly , this 15-amino acid transactivation sequence be well conserve in nfat family protein , although the sequence contiguous to the carboxyl-terminal region of the nfat family be much less conserve .
we also report three additional isoforms of nfatx , designate nfatx2 , nfatx3 , and nfatx4 .
this transactivation sequence be alter by tissue-specific alternative splicing in newly isolate nfatx isoforms , result in low transactivation activity in jurkat t cell .
nfatx1 be express predominantly in the thymus and peripheral blood leukocyte , while the skeletal muscle express primarily nfatx2 .
in jurkat cell , transcription from the nfat site of the il-2 promoter be activate strongly by nfatx1 but only weakly by nfatx2 .
these data demonstrate that the 15-amino acid sequence of nfatx1 be a major transactivation sequence require for induction of gene by nfatx1 in t cell and possibly regulate nfat activity through tissue-specific alternative splicing .
regulation of nf-kappa b activity by i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta stability .
transcription factor nf-kappa b must be release from cytoplasmic inhibitory molecule ( i kappa b ) in order to move to the nucleus and to activate it target gene .
little be know about the mechanism regulate the maintenance of constitutive nuclear nf-kappa b in some cell-types and of sustained nuclear nf-kappa b activity after stimulation .
increase turnover have be implicate in the regulation of constitutive nf-kappa b activity in mature b cell .
we therefore compare the turnover of i kappa b alpha and i kappa b beta in mature b cell and hela cell .
both protein display a high turnover in b cell although i kappa b beta be considerably more stable than i kappa b alpha .
the half-life of both inhibitor be increase in hela cell .
in contrast , all other nf-kappa b /i kappa b molecule test be relatively stable in both cell-types .
the elevated turnover of endogenous i kappa b alpha in namalwa cell be inhibit by a proteasome inhibitor and thus seem to be drive by the same degradation machinery a the slow turnover in non-b cell .
furthermore , we investigate the process involve in persistent activation of nf-kappa b .
tnf-alpha signaling lead to a rapid depletion of cellular i kappa b beta pool .
i kappa b alpha be efficiently resynthesized whereas i kappa b beta level stay low for a prolonged time .
nf-kappa b binding activity can be detect for several hour after stimulation .
we find that removal of the tnf-alpha containing medium cause a rapid decrease in nuclear nf-kappa b .
a phosphoform of newly synthesize i kappa b alpha be visible when degradation by the proteasome be inhibit and new i kappa b alpha display the same property regard phosphorylation and degradation in response to a second inducer .
there be no significant difference in the turnover of pre- and post-inductive i kappa b alpha .
these observation suggest that resynthesis of i kappa b alpha and removal of the stimulus be obligatory step for the inactivation of nuclear nf kappa b .
regulation of c-jun expression during induction of monocytic differentiation by okadaic acid .
the present work have examine the effect of okadaic acid , an inhibitor of type 1 and 2a protein phosphatase , on the regulation of c-jun expression during monocytic differentiation of u-937 leukemia cell .
the result demonstrate that okadaic acid treatment be associate with induction of a differentiate monocyte phenotype characterize by : ( a ) growth arrest ; ( b ) increase in mac-1 cell surface antigen expression ; ( c ) down-regulation of c-myc transcript ; and ( d ) induction of tumor necrosis factor gene expression .
this induction of monocytic differentiation be associate with transient increase in c-jun mrna level , which be maximal at 6 h .
similar effect be obtain for the c-fos gene .
run-on analysis demonstrate detectable level of c-jun transcription in u-937 cell and that this rate be increase approximately 40-fold follow okadaic acid exposure .
c-jun mrna level be superinduced in cell treat with both okadaic acid and cycloheximide , whereas inhibition of protein synthesis have little , if any , effect on okadaic acid -induced c-jun transcription .
the half-life of c-jun mrna be similar ( 45-50 min ) in both untreated and okadaic acid -induced cell .
in contrast , treatment with both okadaic acid and cycloheximide be associate with stabilization ( t 1/2 = 90 min ) of c-jun transcript .
take together , these finding indicate that the induction of c-jun transcription by okadaic acid be control primarily by a transcriptional mechanism .
since previous study have demonstrate that the c-jun gene be autoinduced by jun/ap-1 , we also study transcription of c-jun promoter ( position -132/+170 ) -reporter gene construct with and without a mutate ap-1 element .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
the carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic domain of cd36 be require for oxidize low-density lipoprotein modulation of nf-kappab activity by tumor necrosis factor-alpha .
the binding of oxidize low-density lipoprotein ( ox ldl ) by monocyte -macrophages cause pleiotropic effect , include change in gene expression , and be think to represent an early event in atherogenesis .
the integral membrane glycoprotein cd36 appear to play a physiological role in binding and uptake of ox ldl by monocyte- macrophage , although the molecular event associate with cd36 -ox ldl interaction be unknown .
to approach this issue , we use cd36 transfected chinese hampster ovary ( cho ) cell , expose them to ox ldl , and determine change in the activity of the transcription factor nf-kappab .
we report here that ox ldl enhance dna binding activity of nuclear extract to an nf-kappab sequence follow activation of cd36 -producing cho cell with the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) .
this enhance dna binding activity be inhibit by coincubation of cd36 transfected cell with the human cd36 -specific antibody okm5 .
we also determine that activation of nf-kappab dna binding activity require an intact carboxyl-terminal cytoplasmic segment on cd36 .
our result support the idea that human cd36 mediate signal transduction event in response to ox ldl .
microtubule mediate cellular 25-hydroxyvitamin d3 trafficking and the genomic response to 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 in normal human monocyte .
the genomic action of 1,25-dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( 1,25(oh)2d3 ) be mediate by the intracellular vitamin d receptor ( vdr ) .
although immunocytochemistry have show that disruption of microtubular assembly prevent nuclear access of the sterol- vdr complex , the role of microtubule in the response to 1,25(oh)2d3 have not be study in viable cell .
our study examine this interaction in normal human monocyte .
monocyte convert 25(oh)d3 to 1,25(oh)2d3 and to 24-hydroxylated metabolite more polar than 1,25(oh)2d3 .
microtubule disruption totally abolish the ability of exogenous 1,25(oh)2d3 to suppress it own synthesis and to induce 24-hydroxylase mrna and activity , without affect either total 1,25(oh)2d3 uptake or maximal 1,25(oh)2d3 -vdr binding .
thus , intact microtubule be essential for 1,25(oh)2d3 -dependent modulation of gene transcription .
interestingly , microtubule disruption also decrease monocyte 1,25(oh)2d3 synthesis , not by decrease the vmax of monocyte mitochondrial 1 alpha-hydroxylase but through an increase in the km for 25(oh)2d3 .
we examine 25(oh)d3 transport .
microtubule disruption do not affect total cellular 25(oh)d3 uptake but reduce it intracellular trafficking to the mitochondrion .
thus , microtubule participate in intracellular 25(oh)d3 transport , and their integrity determine normal 1,25(oh)2d3 synthesis .
inhibition of nuclear factor kappab activation attenuate apoptosis resistance in lymphoid cell .
death-inducing ligand ( dils ) such a tumor necrosis factor alpha ( tnfalpha ) or the cytotoxic drug doxorubicin have be show to activate a nuclear factor kappab ( nfkappab ) -dependent program that may rescue cell from apoptosis induction .
we demonstrate here that trail ( tnf-related apoptosis -inducing ligand ) , a recently identify dil , also activate nfkappab in lymphoid cell line in a kinetic similar to tnfalpha .
nfkappab activity be independent from fadd , caspase , and apoptosis induction .
to study the influence of nfkappab activity on apoptosis mediate by trail , cd95 , tnfalpha , or doxorubicin , nfkappab activation be inhibit use the proteasome inhibitor n-acetyl-l-leucinyl-l-leucinyl-l-norleucinal or transient overexpression of mutant ikappabalpha .
sensitivity for induction of apoptosis be markedly increase by these treatment in apoptosis sensitive cell line .
moreover , both in cell line and in primary leukemia cell that be resistant towards induction of apoptosis by dils and doxorubicin , antagonization of nfkappab activity partially restore apoptosis sensitivity .
these data suggest that inhibition of nfkappab activation may provide a molecular approach to increase apoptosis sensitivity in anticancer treatment .
transcriptional regulation of the beta-casein gene by cytokine : cross-talk between stat5 and other signal molecule .
the beta-casein promoter have be widely use to monitor the activation of stat ( signal transducer and activator of transcription ) 5 since stat5 be originally find a a mediator of prl-inducible beta-casein expression .
however , not only be expression of the beta-casein gene regulate by stat5 but it be also affect by other molecule such a glucocorticoid and ra .
in this report , we describe the transcriptional regulation of the beta-casein gene by cytokine in t cell .
we have find that the beta-casein gene be express in a cytotoxic t cell line , ctll-2 , in response to interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) , which activate stat5 .
while il-4 do not activate stat5 , it induce expression of stat5 -regulated gene in ctll-2 , i.e. beta-casein , a cytokine-inducible sh2-containing protein ( ci ) , and oncostatin m ( osm ) , suggest that stat6 activate by il-4 substitute for the function of stat5 in t cell .
il-2 -induced beta-casein expression be enhance by dexamethasone , and this synergistic effect of dexamethasone require the sequence between -155 and -193 in the beta-casein promoter .
coincidentally , a deletion of this region enhance the il-2 -induced expression of beta-casein .
expression of an active form of ra , ras(g12v) , suppress the il-2 -induced beta-casein and osm gene expression , and the negative effect of ra be mediate by the region between -105 and -193 in the beta-casein promoter .
in apparent contradiction , expression of a dominant negative form of ra , rasn17 , also inhibit il-2 -induced activation of the promoter contain the minimal beta-casein stat5 element as well a the promoter of ci and osm .
in addition , ras(g12v) complement signaling by an erythropoietin receptor mutant defective in ra activation and augment the activation of the beta-casein promoter by the mutant erythropoietin receptor signaling , suggest a possible role of ra in stat5 -mediated gene expression .
these result collectively reveal a complex interaction of stat5 with other signaling pathway and illustrate that regulation of gene expression require integration of opposing signal
molecular cloning and characterization of a cdna , chemr1 , encode a chemokine receptor with a homology to the human c-c chemokine receptor , ccr-4 .
chemokines refer to a rapidly expand family of small cytokine whose primary function be recruitment of leukocyte to inflammatory site .
these be know to bind to seven-transmembrane-domain contain receptor .
a cdna clone , chemr1 , resemble the typical g protein-coupled receptor , be isolate from a mouse cytotoxic t-lymphocyte ( ctl ) library .
northern blot analysis in mouse cell line suggest that it expression be find in a variety of cell , include t cell , b cell , and macrophage .
the chemr1 gene scya3r2 be a single-copy gene whose open reading frame may be in a single exon and map to the distal region of mouse chr 9 where the mouse macrophage inflammatory protein-1alpha ( mip-1alpha ) receptor gene scya3r and two related c-c chemokine receptor-like gene reside .
amino acid sequence comparison show that chemr1 be 84 % identical to human ccr-4 , indicate that chemr1 be likely to be a mouse ccr-4 .
binding assay use 125i-labeled c-c chemokines in mammalian cell indicate that chemr1 do not bind mip-1alpha , rantes , or mip-1beta , whereas ccr-1 bind mip-1alpha and rantes .
our result be different from the report property of human ccr-4 .
this suggest that chemr1 may be a receptor for unidentified c-c chemokine or a low-affinity receptor for mip-1alpha .
transcriptional regulation of the pyruvate kinase erythroid-specific promoter .
mammal pyruvate kinase be encode by two gene .
the l gene produce the erythroid ( r-pk ) or the hepatic ( l-pk ) isozymes by the alternative use of two promoter .
we report the characterization of the cis- and trans- acting element involve in the tissue-specific activity of the l gene erythroid promoter .
a r-pk dna fragment extend from -870 to +54 relative to the cap site confer erythroid specificity to a reporter gene .
within this region , we define a minimal promoter ( -62 to +54 ) that display erythroid-specific activity and contain two dna binding site .
one , located at -50 , bind member of the ccacc/sp1 family and the other , located at -20 , bind the erythroid factor gata-1 .
although the -20 gata binding site ( agataa ) be also a potential tfiid binding site , it do not bind tfiid .
furthermore , the substitution of this gata binding site by a canonical tfiid binding site suppress the promoter activity .
mutation and deletion of both site indicate that only the association of ccacc/sp1 and gata binding site can drive efficient and tissue-specific expression of this r-pk minimal promoter .
finally , by co-transfection experiment , we study the element involve in the hgata-1 transactivation of the r-pk promoter in hela cell .
dexamethasone suppression test : corticosteroid receptor regulation in mononuclear leukocyte of young and aged subject .
the dexamethasone suppression test ( dst ) be consider an indicator of the function of the adrenal pituitary axis .
the effect of the steroid be mediate by it binding to corticosteroid receptor .
we previously suggest that the measurement of corticosteroid receptor in lymphocyte be an index of an analogous pattern in brain .
in the present study , corticosteroid type i and type ii receptor in mononuclear leukocyte be measure in 10 elderly subject and in 9 young adult , before and after overnight dst ( 1 mg ) .
receptor be measure by radioreceptor assay .
in all the subject , dexamethasone be able to suppress plasma cortisol .
the number of type i and type ii receptor before the test be low in elderly subject than in adult .
in the control group , dexamethasone produce a significant depression of type i receptor ( from 267 +/- 72 to 169 +/- 71 receptor per cell ) , which can be interpret a a primary involvement of type i receptor in the response to dexamethasone ; type ii receptor decrease in half the subject ( from 2849 +/- 703 to 2345 +/- 569 receptor per cell ) .
in elderly healthy subject , type ii receptor be also significantly decrease ( from 1796 +/- 671 to 720 +/- 345 ) .
we suggest that in young subject type ii receptor be initially up-regulated by dexamethasone , and then down-regulated , while in aged subject an up-regulation can not be achieve , a suggest by the high value of plasma cortisol usually find in age subject .
ro 09-2210 exhibit potent anti-proliferative effect on activate t cell by selectively block mkk activity .
by use high throughput screening of microbial broth , we have identify a compound , designate ro 09-2210 , which be able to block anti-cd3 induced peripheral blood t cell activation with an ic50 = 40 nm .
ro 09-2210 be also able to block antigen-induced il-2 secretion with an ic50 = 30 nm , but be considerably less potent at block ca2+ flux stimulate by anti-cd3 treatment .
to determine the mechanism of action of ro 09-2210 , we set up a transient expression system in jurkat t cell use a variety of reporter gene construct and show effective inhibition of phorbol ester / ionomycin -induced nf-at activation and anti-cd3 induce nf-at with ic50 = 7.7 and 10 nm , respectively .
ro 09-2210 be also able to inhibit phorbol ester / ionomycin -induced activation of ap1 with ic50 = < 10 nm .
we far show that ro 09-2210 be unable to inhibit c-jun induced expression of ap1 -dependent reporter construct ( ic50 > 500 nm ) , but be able to potently inhibit ras-induced ap1 activation ( ic50 = 20 nm ) .
this suggest that ro 09-2210 be inhibit an activator of ap-1 which be upstream of c-jun and downstream of ra signaling .
to investigate far , we then purify a number of different kinase , include pkc , phk , zap-70 , erk , and mek 1 ( a mkk ) , and show that ro 09-2210 be a selective inhibitor of mek1 in vitro ( ic50 = 59 nm ) .
inhibition of rna polymerase ii transcription in human cell by synthetic dna-binding ligand [ see comment ]
sequence-specific dna-binding small molecule that can permeate human cell potentially could regulate transcription of specific gene .
multiple cellular dna-binding transcription factor be require by hiv type 1 for rna synthesis .
two pyrrole-imidazole polyamide be design to bind dna sequence immediately adjacent to bind site for the transcription factor ets-1 , lymphoid-enhancer binding factor 1 , and tata-box binding protein .
these synthetic ligand specifically inhibit dna-binding of each transcription factor and hiv type 1 transcription in cell-free assay .
when use in combination , the polyamide inhibit virus replication by > 99 % in isolate human peripheral blood lymphocyte , with no detectable cell toxicity .
the ability of small molecule to target predetermined dna sequence located within rna polymerase ii promoter suggest a general approach for regulation of gene expression , as well a a mechanism for the inhibition of viral replication .
synergy between signal transduction pathway be obligatory for expression of c-fos in b and t cell line : implication for c-fos control via surface immunoglobulin and t cell antigen receptor .
expression of the protooncogene c-fos be control by three main regulatory pathway involve kinase c , camp , and calcium .
kinase c mediate it effect via phosphorylation of serum response factor ( srf ) which interact with the serum response element ( sre ) ; camp and calcium mediate their effect via phosphorylation of creb ( camp regulatory element binding protein ) presumably by activation of a protein kinase a or calmodulin-regulated kinase .
we have examine the function of these element in burkitt 's lymphoma cell ( ramos and daudi ) as well a a t lymphocytic cell line ( jurkat ) .
we have find that stimulation of any one of these pathway alone have little or no effect on c-fos induction .
however , kinase c activation ( pma stimulation ) combine with either camp ( forskolin plus mix ) or calcium stimulation ( ionophore ) lead to greatly enhance c-fos induction .
by contrast , camp in the presence of calcium show no synergy in c-fos induction .
okadaic acid augment pma- as well a calcium- mediated activation of c-fos , and have little or no effect when combine with camp .
the main difference between ramos ( b cell ) and jurkat ( t cell ) in the regulation of c-fos be that camp plus calcium be strongly synergistic in jurkat and be without effect in ramos .
analysis of ap-1 activity use gel mobility shift assay confirm that the requirement for synergy in c-fos mrna induction be parallel by requirement for synergy in induction of ap-1 activity .
signaling in b cell due to anti-ig stimulation involve both kinase c activation and release of intracellular calcium , and result in c-fos mrna induction .
our result indicate that synergy between the kinase c activation and calcium be need for efficient c-fos induction since neither of these two alone induce c-fos well .
that synergy of signaling pathway be relevant for the anti-ig induction of c-fos be support by the fact that camp -inducing agent and okadaic acid far enhance anti-ig induction of c-fos .
these result suggest that cell-specific pattern of synergy be an essential feature for c-fos induction and may be relevant for c-fos control through b and t cell antigen receptor .
helenalin , an anti-inflammatory sesquiterpene lactone from arnica , selectively inhibit transcription factor nf-kappab [ see comment ]
alcoholic extract prepare form arnicae flos , the collective name for flowerheads from arnica montana and a. chamissonis ssp. foliosa , be use therapeutically a anti-inflammatory remedy .
the active ingredient mediate the pharmacological effect be mainly sesquiterpene lactones , such a helenalin , 11alpha,13-dihydrohelenalin , chamissonolid and their ester derivative .
while these compound affect various cellular process , current data do not fully explain how sesquiterpene lactones exert their anti-inflammatory effect .
we show here that helenalin , and , to a much less degree , 11alpha,13-dihydrohelenalin and chamissonolid , inhibit activation of transcription factor nf-kappab .
this difference in efficacy , which correlate with the compound ' anti-inflammatory potency in vivo , may be explain by difference in structure and conformation .
nf-kappab , which reside in an inactive , cytoplasmic complex in unstimulated cell , be activate by phosphorylation and degradation of it inhibitory subunit , ikappab .
helenalin inhibit nf-kappab activation in response to four different stimulus in t-cells , b-cells and epithelial cell and abrogate kappab -driven gene expression .
this inhibition be selective , a the activity of four other transcription factor , oct-1 , tbp , sp1 and stat 5 be not affect .
we show that inhibition be not due to a direct modification of the active nf-kappab heterodimer .
rather , helenalin modify the nf-kappab/ ikappab complex , prevent the release of ikappab .
these data suggest a molecular mechanism for the anti-inflammatory effect of sesquiterpene lactones , which differ from that of other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug ( nsaid ) , indomethacin and acetyl salicylic acid .
adenovirus e1a inhibit ifn -induced resistance to cytolysis by natural killer cell .
infection of target cell with cytopathic virus inhibit ifn induction of cytolytic resistance to nk cell-mediated cytolysis [ ifn -mediated cytoprotection ( ifn -mcp ) ] .
it have be think that the virally induce inhibition of ifn -mcp be secondary to the shutdown of cellular macromolecular synthesis that accompany cytopathic virus infection .
group c , adenovirus serotype 5 ( ad5 ) infection inhibit both ifn -mcp and cellular protein synthesis .
this study determine if the ad5-induced inhibition of ifn -mcp be independent of adenovirus ( ad ) infection and secondary only to the expression of the ad early region 1a gene ( e1a ) .
to test this hypothesis , 4-h nk cytolysis assay be perform on ifn-gamma-treated human cell infect with an ad5 e1a deletion mutant , dl343 , or transfected with the ad5 e1a gene .
ifn -mcp be not inhibit by infection with dl343 , despite the production of large amount of both early ( e1b , p55 ) and late ( hexon ) ad protein .
in contrast to e1a -negative , parental cell line , ifn -mcp be block in ad5 e1a -transfected epithelial and fibroblastic cell line .
genetic mapping study within the e1a gene demonstrate that expression of only the first exon of e1a be sufficient to inhibit ifn -mcp .
dna sequence homology of e1a gene between different ad group ( group a , ad12 ; group c , ad5 ) be limit almost entirely to three conserve region located within the first exon of e1a .
because ifn -mcp be also block in ad12 e1a -transfected cell line , expression of one or more of the e1a -conserved region may be necessary to inhibit ifn -mcp .
in summary , the expression of e1a gene product inhibit ifn -mcp independently of virus infection .
e1a 's inhibition of ifn -mcp have the net effect of promote the selective nk cell-mediated clearance of ad-infected or ad-transformed human cell .
tumor suppressor protein a regulator of cell differentiation .
the product of the tumor suppressor gene be consider to function a specific inhibitor of tumor cell growth .
in this communication , we present evidence to show that these protein inhibit tumor cell proliferation by participate in the activation of tumor cell differentiation .
the ml-1 human myeloblastic leukemia cell use in this study proliferate when treat with insulin-like growth factor i and transferrin but differentiate to monocyte when expose to tumor necrosis factor alpha or transform growth factor beta1 , or to macrophage-like cell when treat with both these cytokine .
initiation of proliferation but not of differentiation be follow by a 20- to 25-fold increase in the nuclear level of the dna polymerase-associated processivity factor pcna and of the proliferation-specific transcription factor e2f1 .
in contrast , induction of differentiation but not of proliferation be follow by a 25- to 30-fold increase in the nuclear level of the tumor suppressor protein p53 ( wild type ) , prb , and p130/rb2 and of the p53-dependent cyclin kinase inhibitor p21/cip1 .
p53 and p21/cip1 , respectively , inhibit the expression and activation of pcna , whereas p130 and prb , respectively , inhibit the expression and activation of e2f1 .
a a result , g1-s-associated dna and mrna synthesis be inhibit , growth uncouple from differentiation , and maturation enable to proceed .
where this function of the tumor suppressor protein be impaired , the capacity for differentiation be lose , which lead to the sustained proliferation that be characteristic of the cancer cell .
cross-linking cd40 on b cell preferentially induce stress-activated protein kinase rather than mitogen-activated protein kinase .
the b cell-associated surface molecule cd40 play a key role in t cell-dependent b cell maturation , a individual with defect in either cd40 or it ligand be impaired in immunoglobulin isotype class switching and germinal center formation .
cd40 signaling activate downstream effector , include the tyrosine protein kinase , lyn , the phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase ( pi-3 kinase ) , and the transcription factor , nf-kappa b .
in this study , we demonstrate that stress-activated protein kinase ( sapk ) be activate after cd40 cross-linking on various b cell line or human tonsillar b cell .
the activation be rapid and transient and be mediate through a cyclosporin a -insensitive pathway .
furthermore , this signaling pathway appear not to rely on protein kinase c .
while cd40 ligation strongly activate the sapks ( up to 25-fold ) , it do not affect member of the mitogen-activated protein kinase family ( mapk ; erk1 and erk2 ) .
consistent with these data , cd40 signal up-regulate c-jun but not c-fos mrna and alter the transcription factor atf2 but not the raf-1 protein .
in summary , cd40 signaling preferentially induce sapk but not mapk .
presence of a variant form of the estrogen receptor in peripheral blood mononuclear cell from normal individual and lupus patient .
estrogen may participate in the pathogenesis of systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) via it intracellular receptor .
to investigate the presence of various isoforms of the estrogen receptor ( er ) in sle we isolate rna from mononuclear cell of lupus patient and normal control .
use rt-pcr we be able to identify both the full length wild-type form and an isoform of the er which precisely lack exon v in both patient and normal individual .
our result , although limited , suggest that normal individual can express both the wild-type and truncate version at the same time , whereas lupus patient only express either the wild-type or the truncate er .
this finding may lead to a good understanding of the reason for the prevalence of lupus in female and of the estrogenic effect on sle disease activity .
enhance responsiveness to nuclear factor kappa b contribute to the unique phenotype of simian immunodeficiency virus variant sivsmmpbj14 .
infection with a variant of simian immunodeficiency virus , sivsmmpbj14 , lead to severe acute disease in macaque .
this study be design to investigate the functional significance of previously describe mutation in the viral long terminal repeat ( ltr ) and to elucidate their contribution to the unique phenotype of sivsmmpbj14 .
ltr -directed transcription be measure by use luciferase reporter construct that be transiently transfected into culture cell .
in a wide range of cell type , the basal transcriptional activity of the ltr from sivsmmpbj14 be find to be 2- to 4.5-fold high than that of an ltr from a non-acutely pathogenic strain .
these ltrs differ by five point mutation and a 22-bp duplication in sivsmmpbj14 , which include a nuclear factor kappa b ( nf kappa b ) site .
transcriptional difference between these ltrs be far enhance by two- to threefold upon treatment of cell with phorbol ester or tumor necrosis factor alpha or by cotransfection with plasmid express nf kappa b subunit .
mutagenesis study , and the use of a reporter construct contain an enhancerless promoter , indicate that these transcriptional effect be due principally to the 22-bp sequence duplication and the nf kappa b site contain within it .
finally , infectious virus stock that be isogenic except for the ltr be generate .
the ltr from sivsmmpbj14 be find to confer an increase in the kinetics of virus replication in culture cell .
inclusion of this ltr in recombinant sivs also result in a two- to threefold rise in the extent of cellular proliferation that be induce in quiescent simian peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
these study be consistent with the hypothesis that ltr mutation assist sivsmmpbj14 in respond efficiently to cellular stimulation and allow it to replicate to high titer during the acute phase of viral infection .
inhibition of nuclear factor kappa b subunit p65 mrna accumulation in lipopolysaccharide -stimulated human monocytic cell treat with sodium salicylate .
lipopolysaccharide be one of the most potent trigger substance for monocyte and macrophage cause secretion of inflammatory mediator such a tumor necrosis factor and interleukin-1 .
the nature of the nuclear factor involve in regulation of these cytokine gene be still unknown .
nuclear factor kappa b ( nf-kappa b ; heterodimer of p50 and p65 ) protein have be suggest to play an important role in gene transcription of inflammatory mediator when monocyte be stimulate with lipopolysaccharide .
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug such a salicylate have be use to treat symptom of inflammation , and a new mechanism of drug action be suggest recently .
salicylate have be show to inhibit lipopolysaccharide -induced gene transcription via inhibition of nf-kappa b activation by prevent the degradation of nf-kappa b inhibitor " i kappa b " , block the translocation of nf-kappa b into the nuclear compartment .
however , the nature of the subunit involve in this mechanism have not be define .
to examine the mechanism by which salicylate affect cytokine gene transcription , the amount of active and inactive nf-kappa b and nf-kappa b mrna , in porphyromonas gingivalis lipopolysaccharide -stimulated human monocytic cell be assess .
high dos of sodium salicylate suppress nf-kappa b p65 mrna accumulation , result in suppression of total nf-kappa b , p50 on tissue oligonucleotide have no effect on lipopolysaccharide -induced nf-kappa b activation .
the data demonstrate that the p65 subunit of nf-kappa b be inhibit by salicylate treatment and highlight the role of salicylate in the control of gene expression of inflammatory mediator .
solution structure of a pou-specific homeodomain : 3d-nmr study of human b-cell transcription factor oct-2 .
the pou dna-binding motif define a conserve family of eukaryotic transcription factor involve in regulation of gene expression .
this bipartite motif consist of an n-terminal pou-specific domain ( pous ) , a flexible linker , and a c-terminal pou-specific homeodomain ( pouhd ) .
here we describe the solution structure of a pou-specific homeodomain .
an nmr model be obtain from oct-2 , a human b-cell specific transcription factor which participate in the regulation of immunoglobulin gene .
a fragment of oct-2 containing pouhd and an adjoining linker be express in escherichia coli and characterize by three-dimensional nuclear magnetic resonance ( 3d-nmr ) spectroscopy .
complete 1h and 15n resonance assignment of the pouhd moiety be present .
the pouhd solution structure , a calculate by distance geometry and simulated annealing ( dg/sa ) , be similar to that of canonical homeodomains .
a salient difference between solution and crystal structure be observe in the c-terminal segment of alpha-helix 3 ( the hth recognition helix ) , which be not well order in solution .
because this segment presumably fold upon specific dna binding , it flexibility in solution may reduce the intrinsic dna affinity of pouhd in the absence of pous .
tumor necrosis factor receptor expression and signal transduction in hiv-1 -infected cell .
objective : to examine the inter-relationship between hiv-1 infection and the cell surface receptor for tumor necrosis factor ( tnf ) -alpha , an immunoregulatory cytokine that can enhance hiv-1 replication .
design : infected promyelocytic and promonocytic cell be examine because they normally express both type of tnf receptor .
method : tnf receptor surface expression be determine by specific monoclonal antibody recognition and flow cytometry , and signal transduction be detect by gel shift analysis .
hiv-1 activation and expression be quantitated by reverse transcriptase assay .
result : in the om-10.1 promyelocytic model of chronic infection , tnf-alpha-induced hiv-1 expression also result in a substantial increase in 75 kd tnf receptor ( tr75 ) expression although 55 kd tnf receptor ( tr55 ) level be not dramatically alter .
a series of uninfected parental hl-60 subclones all reduce tr75 surface expression in response to tnf-alpha treatment .
enhance tr75 expression on om-10.1 cell follow the same tnf-alpha -dose dependency a that observe for hiv-1 production .
an increase in tr75 expression be also evident during the peak of an acute hiv-1 infection of hl-60 promyelocytes .
although tr55 expression be unaltered during tnf-alpha -induced hiv activation , this receptor be still involve in the viral activation process .
antibody cross-linking of tr55 , in the absence of exogenous tnf-alpha , induce maximal hiv-1 expression , an up-modulation of surface tr75 , and nuclear nf-kappa b activity in om-10.1 culture .
surprisingly , this be the case even when an antagonistic anti-tr55 antibody be use .
anti-tr55 antibody cross-linking in chronically infected u1 promonocytic culture could only partially substitute for tnf-alpha-induced hiv-1 expression .
conclusion : our result demonstrate that hiv-1 infection can selectively influence the surface expression of tnf receptor , potentially influence it own expression and alter normal immunoregulatory signal transduction .
inhibitory effect of growth hormone on tnf-alpha secretion and nuclear factor-kappab translocation in lipopolysaccharide -stimulated human monocyte .
several study have point to a link between immune and endocrine system , include a regulatory function of gh on monocyte activation .
the present study demonstrate that human thp-1 promonocytic cell , engineer by gene transfer to constitutively produce human growth hormone ( hgh ) , secrete depress amount of tnf-alpha in response to challenge by lp .
the effect of gh appear to occur in an autocrine fashion , since the inhibitory effect on tnf-alpha secretion by constitutive gh production could be abolish in the presence of anti-hgh mab .
the gh -induced inhibitory effect be also observe use normal human monocyte and monocyte-derived macrophage .
inhibition of tnf-alpha production by thp-1-hgh-transfected cell culture in the presence of lp be dependent on a selective pathway , since no inhibition of tnf-alpha production be observe when cell be culture in the presence of pma .
inhibition of tnf-alpha secretion by lp -stimulated thp-1-hgh cell be associate with a decrease in nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappab .
the capacity of gh to inhibit lp -induced tnf-alpha production by monocyte without alter other pathway lead to tnf-alpha production may be of potential relevance in septic shock , since gh be available for clinical use .
expression of id2 and id3 mrna in human lymphocyte .
helix-loop-helix ( hlh ) transcription factor be involve in cellular growth and differentiation .
the id ( inhibitor of dna binding and differentiation ) hlh protein , in a dominantly negative fashion , regulate transcriptional activity of basic hlh protein .
we examine by northern hybridization the expression of id2 and id3 mrna in human leukemia/lymphoma line and patient sample , as well a rest and activate normal human lymphocyte from peripheral blood ( pbl ) .
the id2 mrna be abundantly express in 5/12 t-cell and 3/4 b-cell line , and id3 mrna be detect in 4/12 t-cell and 3/4 b-cell line .
interestingly , id2 , but not id3 , mrna be strongly express in 4/5 t-cell line infect with human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) ( atl-1k , mt-2 , s-lb1 ) and type ii ( mo ) .
another unexpected finding be that t-cell leukemia and t-cell line often express either id2 or id3 mrna .
in addition , rest pbl constitutively express prominent level of id2 mrna , but not id3 mrna .
upon pha -stimulation , id2 expression decrease and id3 level increase with biphasic kinetics .
take together , our study reveal three unexpected finding which require further analysis : ( 1 ) expression of id2 mrna be often associate with lymphocytic transformation by htlv-i or -ii ; ( 2 ) t-cells usually express either id2 or id3 mrna , but b-cells often express both simultaneously ; ( 3 ) non-dividing , normal pbl express high level of id2 and no id3 mrna ; and with the onset of cellular proliferation , level of id2 mrna decrease while level of id3 mrna increase , suggest that regulation of expression of these closely related gene be disparate .
the p65 subunit of nf-kappa b regulate i kappa b by two distinct mechanism .
transcription factor nf-kappa b ( p50/p65 ) be generally localized to the cytoplasm by it inhibitor i kappa b .
overproduced i kappa b , free from nf-kappa b , be rapidly degrade .
overexpression of p65 increase endogenous i kappa b protein in both carcinoma and lymphoid cell by two mechanism : protein stabilization and increase transcription of i kappa b mrna .
in contrast , p65 delta , a naturally occur splice variant , fail to markedly augment i kappa b protein level .
both overexpressed p65 and coexpressed p50 be cytoplasmic , whereas p65 delta be partly nuclear , indicate that the i kappa b induce by p65 can maintain nf-kappa b in the cytoplasm .
thus , p65 and i kappa b be link in an autoregulatory loop , ensure that nf-kappa b be hold in the cytoplasm until cell be specifically induce to translocate it to the nucleus .
the use of glucocorticoid in acute lymphoblastic leukemia of childhood .
molecular , cellular , and clinical consideration .
glucocorticoid have be include in almost all treatment regimen for childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia for decade .
however , optimal agent , dos , and/or schedule have yet to be define despite extensive clinical application .
new data on the pharmacokinetics , pharmacodynamics , and molecular mechanism of action of glucocorticoid have suggest alternative approach in all .
these suggest that prolonged , i.e. 28 day , glucocorticoid therapy may be unnecessary a exposure to glucocorticoid induce down-regulation of glucocorticoid receptor .
dexamethasone may be superior to prednisone in conventional equi-effective dos .
blast sensitivity to glucocorticoid correlate closely with sensitivity to other , putatively non-cross-resisting agent and with outcome after multi-agent therapy , suggest overlapping mechanism of action , and focus attention on the determinant of the threshold for apoptosis .
increase success in the treatment of childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia have lead to increase awareness of avascular necrosis of bone a a potentially disabling sequela of glucocorticoid therapy , especially in adolescent and young adult patient .
multifactor cis-dominant negative regulation of il-2 gene expression in anergized t cell .
the molecular mechanism underlie il-2 transcriptional blockade in anergic t cell clone be not fully understand .
to examine whether an active negative regulatory process occur , we create a reporter construct contain a an enhancer four copy of the nf-at site and one copy of the octamer site ( 4x nf-at-oct ) .
this construct be only slightly reduce ( 1.3-fold ) in it expression when stimulate under anergic condition , while a whole mouse il-2 enhancer construct show a reduction of 4.3-fold .
addition of the -176 to -96 sequence to the 4x nf-at-oct construct do not impart the ability to be affect by anergy , but addition of the -236 to -96 sequence do , demonstrate that anergy be an active inhibitory process and that more than the presence of the -150 ap-1 binding site ( -152 to -147 ) be require to mediate the effect .
mutational study of the -236 to -96 sequence indicate that the presence of both the -130 ap-1-like site ( -187 to -181 ) and the -150 proximal ap-1 site be necessary to observe anergy .
because the -180 site be not require for trans-activation , it be possible to confirm by mutation in the normal mouse il-2 enhancer that this site be absolutely essential for anergy induction .
the simple model to explain these result be that anergy be mediate by a complex of multiple transcription factor that exert a cis-acting dominant negative regulatory effect on the trans-activation of the il-2 gene .
glucocorticoid receptor binding in three different cell type in major depressive disorder : lack of evidence of receptor binding defect .
1 .
in order to far understand the apparent glucocorticoid resistance in major depressive disorder , circadian variation in cortisol concentration , dexamethasone suppression and glucocorticoid receptor binding in mononuclear leukocyte , polymorphonuclear leukocyte and culture skin fibroblast be measure in rigidly define major depressive disorder patient and non-depressed psychiatric control .
2 .
mononuclear leukocyte bind to glucocorticoid correlate significantly with polymorphonuclear leukocyte bind to glucocorticoid , but both determination fail to differentiate major depressive disorder and control subject .
3 .
initial and post- dexamethasone in vitro fibroblast bind to glucocorticoid be not different between major depressive disorder and non-depressed control subject .
4 .
the phenomenon of glucocorticoid resistance in major depressive disorder remain unexplained .
regulation of fas-ligand expression during activation-induced cell death in t lymphocyte via nuclear factor kappab .
t cell receptor engagement activate transcription factor important for cytokine gene regulation .
additionally , this signaling pathway also lead to activation-induced apoptosis in t lymphocyte that be dependent on fasl transcription and expression .
here we demonstrate that nuclear factor kappab ( nf-kappab ) , which be involve in the transcriptional regulation of many cytokine gene express in activate lymphocyte , also play a role in t cell activation-induced fasl expression .
inhibition of nf-kappab activity in a t cell hybridoma lead to decrease fasl expression and apoptosis upon t cell receptor stimulation .
we identify the nf-kappab site in the fasl promoter that contribute to such regulation .
co-expression of p65 ( rel a ) with the fasl promoter enhance it activity , and co-expression of ikappab dramatically inhibit the inducible promoter activity .
in contrast , the transcription factor ap-1 be not require for activation-induced fasl promoter activity .
these result define a role for nf-kappab in mediate fasl expression during t cell activation .
regulation of [ ca2+ ]i rise activate by doxepin-sensitive h1-histamine receptor in jurkat cell , clone human t lymphocyte .
to clarify the presence of histamine receptor and it transmembrane mechanism in human t lymphocyte , we investigate the effect of agonist or antagonist of histamine receptor subtypes and bacterial toxin on intracellular concentration of ca2+ [ ca2+ ]i ) , [3h]pyrilamine binding and c-fos mrna expression in jurkat cell , clone human t lymphocyte .
h1-agonists ( histamine and 2-methylhistamine ) cause a transient rise of [ ca2+ ] , and h1-antagonists ( pyrilamine and doxepin ) inhibit the histamine -induced [ ca2+ ]i rise more potently than the h2-antagonist ( cimetidine ) on the h3-antagonist ( impromidine ) .
binding parameter of [3h] pyrilamine binding be kd = 5.53 nm and bmax = 2 , 647 sites/cell .
pretreatment with b.pertussis , v.cholera. or c.botulinum toxin do not influence histamine -induced [ ca2+ ]i rise .
western blot analysis use antibody against subunit of gtp-binding protein indicate that gq/g11 richly exist in jurkat cell .
histamine induce mrna expression of an immediate early gene c-fos .
pretreatment with a protein kinase c activator , phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate , cause almost complete inhibition of histamine -induced [ ca2+ ]i rise , but do not do so by activator of camp- and cgmp- dependent protein kinase .
human interleukin-13 activate the interleukin-4-dependent transcription factor nf-il4 share a dna binding motif with an interferon-gamma-induced nuclear bind factor .
the effect of interleukin-13 ( il-13 ) and interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) on cellular function be show to be quite similar .
we provide evidence that in monocyte as well a in t lymphocyte both il-4 and il-13 activate the same recently identify transcription factor nf-il4 which bind to the specific responsive element il-4re .
in addition , we show that a nuclear factor activate by interferon-gamma also interact with the il-4re .
it differ from nf-il4 in the electrophoretic mobility of the complex with dna , in it dna-binding specificity and in the protein interact with the dna sequence .
sensitivity against various enzyme inhibitor suggest that component of the signal transduction pathway be share by all three cytokine .
rb and a novel e2f-1 binding protein in mhc class ii deficient b-cell line and normal ifn-gamma induction of the class il transactivator ciita in class ii non-inducible rb -defective tumor line .
the major histocompatibility ( mhc ) class ii gene encode cell surface protein that bind antigenic peptide for presentation to t-cells .
the class ii protein be express constitutively on b-cells and ebv- transformed b-cells , and be inducible by ifn-gamma on a wide variety of cell type .
retinoblastoma protein ( rb ) be a tumor suppressor and function a a transcriptional repressor by bind and inactivate the transactivator e2f-i .
rb -defective tumor line be non-inducible for mhc class ii by ifn-gamma , or very weakly inducible , but transfection of 2 different line with rb expression vector re-establishes or substantially enhance class ii inducibility .
therefore , we examine the rb status of a series of b-cell mutant that be defective in class ii expression , generate either in vitro or derive from bare lymphocyte syndrome ( bls ) patient .
nuclear matrix-bound rb be detectable in all case , indicate that loss of rb be not responsible for decrease class ii expression in these line .
a second e2f-i binding protein , most likely dp-i , be also apparently normal in both class ii-positive and -negative b-cell line .
we also examine the ifn-gamma induction of ciita in rb -defective line .
ciita be a class ii gene transactivator know to be defective in one form of bls and to be require for the induction of mhc class ii by ifn-gamma .
ciita mrna be normally inducible by ifn-gamma in class ii non-inducible , rb -defective line , and in one line , re-expression of rb have no effect on ciita mrna induction level .
thus , the block in mhc class ii inducibility in rb -defective cell be not due to a block in ciita inducibility .
identification of a herpesvirus saimiri cis-acting dna fragment that permit stable replication of episome in transform t cell .
herpesvirus saimiri be a lymphotropic herpesvirus capable of immortalize and transform t cell both in vitro and in vivo .
immortalize and transform t cell harbor several copy of the viral genome a a persisting genome .
the mapping of the cis-acting genetic cis-acting segment ( orip ) require for viral episomal maintenance be report here .
viral dna fragment that potentially contain orip be clone into a plasmid that contain the hygromycin resistance gene .
after several round of subcloning follow by transfection , orip be map to a 1.955-kb viral segment .
this viral fragment permit stable plasmid replication without deletion or rearrangement as well a episomal maintenance without integration or recombination .
the function of orip depend on a trans-acting factor ( s ) encode by the viral genome .
the 1.955-kb viral segment include a dyad symmetry region located between two small nuclear rna gene and be located upstream of the dihydrofolate reductase gene homolog .
therefore , this orip contain novel element distinct from those of other dna virus .
characterization of the human gene encoding lbr , an integral protein of the nuclear envelope inner membrane .
we have characterize the human gene encoding lbr , an integral protein of the nuclear envelope inner membrane .
restriction mapping show that the transcription unit span approximately 35 kilobases .
a transcription start site be located approximately 4 kilobases 5' to the translation initiation codon , and an rna splice of 3863 base occur in the 5'-untranslated region to generate mature hela cell mrna .
5' to the identify transcription start site be two ccaat sequence and potential recognition site for several transcription factor include sp1 , ap-1 , ap-2 , and nf-kb .
there be 13 protein coding exon in the lbr gene .
lbr 's nucleoplasmic domain be encode by exon 1-4 , and it hydrophobic domain , with eight putative transmembrane segment , be encode by exon 5-13 .
the hydrophobic domain be homologous to three yeast polypeptide , suggest that this high eukaryotic gene could have evolve from recombination between a gene that encode a soluble nuclear protein and a membrane protein gene similar to those in yeast .
these result be the first to demonstrate the structural organization of a vertebrate gene encode an integral membrane protein of the nuclear envelope that may be a member of a family of polypeptide conserve in evolution .
generation of cd1+relb+ dendritic cell and tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase-positive osteoclast-like multinucleated giant cell from human monocyte .
we previously show that granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) and macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( m-csf ) stimulate the differentiation of human monocyte into two phenotypically distinct type of macrophage .
however , in vivo , not only csf but also many other cytokine be produce under various condition .
those cytokine may modulate the differentiation of monocyte by csfs .
in the present study , we show that cd14+ adherent human monocyte can differentiate into cd1+relb+ dendritic cell ( dc ) by the combination of gm-csf plus interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) and that they differentiate into tartrate-resistant acid phosphatase ( trap ) -positive osteoclast-like multinucleated giant cell ( mgc ) by the combination of m-csf plus il-4 .
however , the monocyte-derived dc be not terminally differentiate cell ; they could still convert to macrophage in response to m-csf .
tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) stimulate the terminal differentiation of the dc by downregulating the expression of the m-csf receptor , cfms mrna , and abort the potential to convert to macrophage .
in contrast to il-4 , interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) have no demonstrable effect on the differentiation of monocyte .
rather , ifn-gamma antagonize the effect of il-4 and suppress the dc and mgc formation induce by gm-csf + il-4 and m-csf + il-4 , respectively .
take together , these result provide a new aspect to our knowledge of monocyte differentiation and provide evidence that human monocyte be flexible in their differentiation potential and be precursor not only of macrophage but also of cd1+relb+dc and trap-positive mgc .
such a diverse pathway of monocyte differentiation may constitute one of the basic mechanism of immune regulation .
an il-2 response element in the human il-2 receptor alpha chain promoter be a composite element that bind stat5 , elf-1 , and a gata family protein .
expression of the human interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) receptor alpha chain gene be potently upregulated by it own ligand , il-2 .
in this study , we characterize an essential upstream il-2 response element that contain both consensus and non-consensus gas motif , two putative ets binding site ( eb ) , one of which overlap the consensus gas motif , and a gata motif , which overlap the non-consensus gas motif .
we demonstrate that although the individual component of this element do not respond to il-2 , together they form a composite element capable of confer il-2 responsiveness to a heterologous promoter .
multiple factor include stat5 , elf-1 , hmg-i(y) and gata family protein bind to the il-2 response element and mutation of any one of these bind site diminish the activity of this element .
an unidentified ets family protein bind to the eb overlap the consensus gas motif and appear to negatively regulate the human il-2r alpha promoter .
thus , il-2 -induced il-2r alpha promoter activity require a complex upstream element , which appear to contain bind site for both positive and negative regulatory factor .
interferon-gamma modulate the lipopolysaccharide -induced expression of ap-1 and nf-kappa b at the mrna and protein level in human monocyte .
interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) modulate the expression of several cytokine by human monocyte at the transcriptional level .
in view of these finding , we analyze the effect of ifn-gamma on the expression of different transcription factor in activate human monocyte .
priming of human monocyte with ifn-gamma result in the down regulation of c-fos and c-jun mrna in response to stimulation with lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) compare to the effect of lp alone .
not only be this effect observe at the mrna level , but activator protein-1 ( ap-1 ) dna binding capacity be affect as well , a strong reduction be observe in the lp -induced dna-binding activity of ap-1 in the presence of ifn-gamma .
lp -stimulated monocyte show an increase expression of p105 mrna , the precursor of the p50 subunit of the transcription factor nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , while no effect be notice on the expression of p65 mrna .
in contrast , ifn-gamma priming do not affect the expression of p105 transcript but enhance the expression of p65 mrna ( two-fold ) .
prim with ifn-gamma follow by lp stimulation result in a further increase in the expression of p65 mrna .
this be due to an increase in the half-life of p65 mrna ( 75 v 150 minute ) .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsas ) demonstrate that unstimulated monocyte predominantly express p50 nf-kappa b .
stimulation with lp or ifn-gamma result in the expression of p50 and p65 subunit , while the combination of ifn-gamma plus lp cause a further increase in the expression of nf-kappa b .
with western blotting , it be show that nuclear extract from monocyte contain p50 and p65 protein in response to lp and ifn-gamma stimulation .
however , the combined stimulation do not result in enhance p50 and p65 protein expression .
the effect of ifn-gamma on the transcription factor be specific , since no change be observe in the expression of nf-il-6 or i kappa b alpha , the inhibitor of nf-kappa b .
we conclude that the effect of ifn-gamma on the expression of the transcription factor ap-1 and nf-kappa b may be important for the modulatory effect of ifn-gamma on the cytokine expression in activate human monocyte .
induction of interleukin-12 p40 transcript by cd40 ligation via activation of nuclear factor-kappab .
interleukin-12 be produce in response to infection with bacteria or parasite or to bacterial constituent such a lp in monocytes/macrophages and dendritic cell , and also generate by the interaction between activate t cell and antigen-presenting cell via cd40 -cd40 ligand ( cd40l ) .
so far , transcriptional analysis of p40 have be carry out only use bacterial constituent such a lp a stimulus .
in the present study , we have characterize the transcriptional induction of p40 by cd40 ligation in a human b lymphoblastoid cell line , daudi , and a human acute monocytic leukemia cell line , thp-1 .
these cell , stimulate by an agonistic monoclonal antibody against cd40 or by transfection with a cd40l expression vector , secrete p40 and show enhance p40 mrna expression .
sequence analysis of the p40 promoter region identify two potential nuclear factor ( nf ) -kappab binding site conserve between mouse and human .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay reveal that the potential nf-kappab binding sequence which be located around 120 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site in murine and human p40 gene form an nf-kappab complex with nuclear extract from daudi cell stimulate by cd40 ligation .
moreover , transfection of daudi cell with the polymerized nf-kappab binding sequence ligate to a thymidine kinase /chloramphenicol acetyltransferase ( cat ) reporter plasmid greatly induce cat activity , but transfection with the polymerized mutate nf-kappab binding sequence do not .
these result suggest that the nf-kappab binding site located around 120 bp upstream of the transcription initiation site in murine and human p40 promoter region could be important for the p40 induction by cd40 ligation via activation of nf-kappab .
calcineurin mutant render t lymphocyte resistant to cyclosporin a .
the immunosuppressant cyclosporin a ( csa ) and fk506 have be widely use to prevent and treat graft rejection after human organ and tissue transplantation .
csa and fk506 associate with intracellular bind protein ( i.e. , csa with cyclophilin a and fk506 with fkbp12 ) to form protein/drug complex that suppress the immune system by prevent activation of t cell in response to antigen presentation .
the common target of csa and fk506 be calcineurin , a ca2+/calmodulin-regulated , serine/threonine-specific protein phosphatase that regulate the nuclear import of a transcription factor , nf-at , require for expression of t cell activation gene .
in previous study , we identify calcineurin mutation that block binding by the cyclophilin a /csa or fkbp12 /fk506 complex and thereby render yeast cell resistant to the antifungal effect of csa or fk506 .
in this report , we demonstrate that the corresponding mutation in murine calcineurin render the t cell receptor signal transduction cascade csa resistant in human jurkat t cell .
our finding support the recently determine calcineurin x-ray crystal structure , provide evidence that calcineurin be the only csa -sensitive component limit signaling from the t cell receptor to the nucleus , and suggest a mean to render cell and tissue resistant to the toxic side effect of csa and fk506 .
transcriptional activation and repression , two property of the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct-2a .
the lymphoid-specific transcription factor oct-2a contain two transcriptional activation domain which be located within the n-terminal and c-terminal region .
to study their differential activation property , we link the isolate effector domain to the gal4 dna-binding domain .
we have show that both activate region of oct-2a , isolate from their natural context , can activate transcription a promoter factor .
in contrast to the c-terminus , activation by the n-terminal domain be dependent on a yet unidentified factor ( s ) bind to the simian virus 40 enhancer .
the result obtain by duplication of activation domain or their mixed combination suggest that the domain be functionally independent .
however , activation from a remote position could only be achieve with the c-terminus of oct-2a in b cell .
in lymphoid cell , high activation level be observe , suggest that distinct b-cell-specific cofactor in concert with the effector domain of oct-2a might be involve in mediate transcription from proximal and remote position .
furthermore , we identify a repression domain at the n-terminus of oct-2a .
when transfer to a potent activator , transcriptional stimulation be inhibit efficiently .
these result underscore the modular structure of oct-2a with separable domain for activation and repression and suggest that oct-2a might have complex regulatory function in vivo .
isolation of a rel-related human cdna that potentially encode the 65-kd subunit of nf-kappa b [ publish erratum appear in science 1991 oct 4 ; 254 ( 5028 ) : 11 ]
a dna probe that span a domain conserve among the proto-oncogene c-rel , the drosophila morphogen dorsal , and the p50 dna binding subunit of nf-kappa b be generate from jurkat t cell complementary dna with the polymerase chain reaction ( pcr ) and degenerate oligonucleotides .
this probe be use to identify a rel-related complementary dna that hybridize to a 2.6-kilobase messenger rna present in human t and b lymphocyte .
in vitro transcription and translation of the complementary dna result in the synthesis of a protein with an apparent molecular size of 65 kilodaltons ( kd ) .
the translate protein show weak dna binding with a specificity for the kappa b bind motif .
this protein-dna complex comigrated with the complex obtain with the purify human p65 nf-kappa b subunit and binding be inhibit by i kappa b-alpha and -beta protein .
in addition , the 65-kd protein associate with the p50 subunit of nf-kappa b and the kappa b probe to form a complex with the same electrophoretic mobility a the nf-kappa b -dna complex .
therefore the rel-related 65-kd protein may represent the p65 subunit of the active nf-kappa b transcription factor complex .
inhibition of rat splenocyte proliferation with methylprednisolone : in vivo effect of liposomal formulation .
the effect of a liposomal formulation of methylprednisolone ( mpl ) on the inhibition of lymphocyte proliferation in spleen cell be investigate follow iv dosing in rat .
liposome do not alter the suppressive action of mpl when place in lymphocyte culture .
rat splenocytes be find to have great sensitivity to mpl ( ec50 = 7.9 nm ) than do human peripheral blood lymphocyte ( ec50 = 28 nm ) .
in vivo study in rat utilize 2 mg/kg iv bolus dos of liposomal mpl compare to drug in solution .
animal be sacrifice at various time post-dosing until 120 h , spleen be excise and , after incubation of lymphocyte with pha , splenocyte blastogenic response be assess by measure cellular incorporation of 3h-thymidine .
the suppressive effect of liposomal mpl in comparison with free drug be significantly prolonged ( > 120 h v < 18 h ) .
inhibition effect versus time be describe by a pharmacodynamic model use mpl concentration in plasma a an input function .
a nonlinear relationship be find between suppression of splenocyte proliferation and the concentration of bind glucocorticoid receptor in spleen .
only partial receptor occupancy accompany complete lymphocyte suppression .
the suppression of endogenous corticosterone in plasma for both treatment be similar with value from l- mpl rat return to baseline after 24 h .
these result demonstrate enhance efficacy of local immunosuppression by target spleen with liposomal mpl .
oct2 transactivation from a remote enhancer position require a b-cell-restricted activity .
previous cotransfection experiment have demonstrate that ectopic expression of the lymphocyte-specific transcription factor oct2 could efficiently activate a promoter contain an octamer motif .
oct2 expression be unable to stimulate a multimerized octamer enhancer element in hela cell , however .
we have test a variety of oct2 isoforms generate by alternative splicing for the capability to activate an octamer enhancer in nonlymphoid cell and a b-cell line .
our analysis show that several oct2 isoforms can stimulate from a remote position but that this stimulation be restricted to b cell .
this result indicate the involvement of either a b-cell-specific cofactor or a specific modification of a cofactor or the oct2 protein in oct2 -mediated enhancer activation .
mutational analysis indicate that the carboxy-terminal domain of oct2 be critical for enhancer activation .
moreover , this domain confer enhancing activity when fuse to the oct1 protein , which by itself be unable to stimulate from a remote position .
the glutamine-rich activation domain present in the amino-terminal portion of oct2 and the pou domain contribute only marginally to the transactivation function from a distal position .
expression of erythroid-specific gene in megakaryoblastic disorder .
currently available data indicate that erythroid and megakaryocytic differentiation pathway be closely related to each other , and there may exist progenitor cell common to those two lineage may exist .
acute megakaryoblastic leukemia ( aml-m7 ) and transient myeloproliferative disorder in down 's syndrome ( tmd ) be characterize by rapid growth of abnormal blast cell which express megakaryocytic marker .
these blast cell express lineage-specific transcription factor such a gata-1 common to these lineage and frequently express erythroid-specific mrna such a gamma-globin and erythroid delta-aminolevulinate synthase ( alas-e ) , indicate that most of the blast in m7 and tmd case have erythroid and megakaryocytic phenotype .
these result suggest that blast in m7 and tmd may correspond to progenitor of both erythroid and megakaryocytic lineage .
posttranscriptional regulation of macrophage tissue factor expression by antioxidant .
tissue factor ( tf ) expression by cell of monocyte/macrophage lineage represent an important mechanism underlie the initiation of fibrin deposition at site of extravascular inflammation .
recent evidence suggest a role for oxidant stress in the signalling pathway of various cell type by virtue of it ability to induce dna binding of various transcription factor , include nuclear factor kappa b and ap-1 .
the effect of antioxidant treatment on lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) -induced tf expression be examine in murine peritoneal macrophage and human monocyte .
both pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate , an oxidant scavenger , and n-acetyl-cysteine , a precursor of the endogenous antioxidant glutathione , inhibit stimulation of macrophage procoagulant activity by lp .
northern blot analysis show that neither of these agent reduce lp -stimulated tf mrna accumulation , thereby suggest a posttranscriptional mechanism for the effect .
immunofluorescence study of human monocyte use polyclonal anti- tf antibody show that n-acetyl-cysteine treatment prevent the characteristic plasmalemmal localization of tf antigen that occur in response to lp .
western blot analysis show that n-acetyl-cysteine reduce the accumulation of the 47-kd mature glycoprotein in lp -treated cell , a finding consistent with the result of the immunofluorescence study .
furthermore , these condition do not result in an accumulation of the less mature form of tf .
when consider together , these data suggest that antioxidant exert their effect by impair translation and/or by cause degradation of newly translate protein .
the effect of antioxidant on tumor necrosis factor appear to be specie specific , with no effect on lp -induced tumor necrosis factor in murine cell , but with inhibition in human monocyte .
the posttranscriptional effect of antioxidant on tf expression data suggest a novel mechanism whereby these agent might modulate monocyte /macrophage activation .
hmg box contain transcription factor in lymphocyte differentiation .
the identification of the mammalian sex-determining gene sry have lead to the discovery of a large family of related ( ' hmg box ' ) transcription factor that control developmental event in yeast , c. elegans , drosophila and vertebrate .
in lymphocyte differentiation , several hmg box protein play a decisive role .
sox-4 be important for very early b-cell differentiation , while tcf-1/lef-1 play a crucial role in early thymocyte development .
tcf/lef protein have recently be find to constitute a downstream component of the wingless/wnt signal transduction pathway .
in fly , this pathway control segment polarity ; in xenopus it control the definition of the body axis .
deregulation of the pathway occur in several human tumor .
these insights in the molecular event that be involve in tcf/lef function in these organism may eventually lead to the understanding of the function of these hmg box protein in lymphoid development
translocation breakpoints in three patient with campomelic dysplasia and autosomal sex reversal map more than 130 kb from sox9 .
campomelic dysplasia ( cmpd1 ) and autosomal xy sex reversal ( sra1 ) be cause by mutation in the sry-related gene sox9 on 17q .
unexpectedly , the 17q breakpoints in four cmpd1 translocation case previously analyze by u and others map 50 kb or more from sox9 .
here , we present clinical , cytogenetic , and molecular data from a new cmpd1 /sra1 patient with t(6;17)(q14;q24) .
fluorescence in situ hybridization have show that the 17q breakpoint in this case map to the same region a the breakpoints in the other translocation case , at least 130 kb from sox9 .
likewise , the breakpoints in two of the previously describe case also map more than 130 kb and , a show by pulsed field gel electrophoresis analysis , at most 400 kb or 690 kb from sox9 .
by use a sox9 coding sequence polymorphism , expression of both sox9 allele have be demonstrate by the reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction in lymphoblastoid cell from one of the translocation case .
the role of the ikaros gene in lymphocyte development and homeostasis .
the ikaros gene , which encode a family of hemopoietic-specific zinc finger protein , be describe a a central regulator of lymphocyte differentiation .
during fetal development , it be require at the early stage of t cell and b cell specification .
in the adult , however , lymphoid lineage rely on ikaros at distinct phase of their development .
it activity be essential for the generation of b cell but not of t cell precursor , although the differentiation of the latter be not normal .
a significant increase in cd4 thymocytes and their immediate precursor be detect , and because these cell lack marker that correlate with positive selection , a deregulation in their maturation process be suggest .
furthermore , ikaros-null thymocytes hyperproliferate in response to t cell receptor ( tcr ) signaling ; within day after their appearance in the thymus , clonally expand population be detect .
deregulated tcr -mediated response and the fast kinetics of tumor development in these mutant thymocytes implicate ikaros a a central tumor suppressor gene for the t cell lineage .
in addition , lack of natural killer cell and selective defect in gamma delta t cell and dendritic antigen-presenting cell point to ikaros a an essential factor for the establishment of early branchpoints of the t cell pathway .
the dominant interference activity of ikaros isoforms unable to bind dna and their effect in lymphocyte development suggest that ikaros work in concert with other factor .
the role of aiolos , a lymphoid-restricted and structurally related gene , in lymphoid differentiation be discuss .
a model be propose that define ikaros a the backbone of a complex regulatory protein network that control cell fate decision and regulate homeostasis in the hemo-lymphoid system .
change in this regulatory network may reflect differentiation and proliferation adjustment make in hemo-lymphoid progenitor and precursor a they give rise to the cell of our immune system .
nuclear factor-il6 activate the human il-4 promoter in t cell .
positive regulatory element i ( pre-i ) be a strong enhancer element essential for expression of the human il-4 gene .
to identify transcription factor bind to pre-i , we screen a cdna expression library from jurkat t cell and isolate a cdna encoding nuclear factor ( nf ) -il6 ( also know a c/ebp beta ) .
nf-il6 mrna be find in human jurkat t cell and in the mouse th2 clone d10 , but not in th1 clone 29 .
rnf-il6 express in bacteria be show to specifically bind to pre-i .
pre-i form multiple dna-protein complex with nuclear extract from jurkat cell .
some of these complex be demonstrate to contain nf-il6 by use anti- c/ebp beta ab .
overexpression of nf-il6 enhance expression of the chloramphenicol acetyl transferase reporter gene link to the pre-i -thymidine kinase or the human il-4 promoter more than 10-fold in jurkat cell .
promoter deletion study reveal two additional nf-il6 binding site located at position -44 to -36 ( c/ebp proximal ) and -87 to -79 ( c/ebp medial ) , respectively .
our result demonstrate that nf-il6 be involve in transcriptional activation of the human il-4 promoter in t cell .
activation of distinct transcription factor in neutrophil by bacterial lp , interferon-gamma , and gm-csf and the necessity to overcome the action of endogenous protease .
human neutrophil can be induce to actively transcribe a number of early-response gene , in particular those encode cytokine , chemokines , and the high-affinity surface receptor for igg , fcgammari .
although little be know to date about the regulation of gene transcription in neutrophil , several indication point to a role for distinct transcription factor , such a member of the nf-kappab and stat family .
in this study , we investigate whether these transcription factor become activate under stimulatory condition which be know to induce gene transcription in neutrophil .
unexpectedly , we find that conventional procedure employ to prepare cellular extract cause the release of proteolytic activity that be normally store in intracellular granule , result in the degradation of various nf-kappab /rel and stat protein .
to circumvent this problem , we develop an alternative procedure which allow u to show that in neutrophil , lp and tnfalpha induce a nf-kappab dna-binding activity which essentially consist of p50/rela dimer , and that ifngamma promote the binding of stat1 homodimers to the ifngamma response region of the fcgammari promoter .
moreover , we report that neutrophil stimulation with gm-csf result in the formation of a stat5 -containing dna-binding activity .
collectively , the current finding open new perspective about mechanism that be likely to regulate gene transcription in neutrophil .
in addition , the procedure describe herein could prove useful in other cell type that express high level of endogenous protease .
structural and functional characterization of the human cd36 gene promoter : identification of a proximal pebp2/cbf site .
cd36 be a cell surface glycoprotein compose of a single polypeptide chain , which interact with thrombospondin , collagen type i and iv , oxidize low density lipoprotein , fatty acid , anionic phospholipid , and erythrocyte parasitized with plasmodium falciparum .
it expression be restricted to a few cell type , include monocyte/macrophages .
in these cell , cd36 be involve in phagocytosis of apoptotic cell , and foam cell formation by uptake of oxidize low density lipoprotein .
to study the molecular mechanism that control the transcription of the cd36 gene in monocytic cell we have isolate and analyze the cd36 promoter .
transient expression experiment of 5'-deletion fragment of the cd36 promoter couple to luciferase demonstrate that as few a 158 base pair upstream from the transcription initiation site be sufficient to direct the monocyte-specific transcription of the reporter gene .
within the above region , the fragment spanning nucleotide -158 to -90 be require for optimal transcription in monocytic cell .
biochemical analysis of the region -158/-90 reveal a bind site for transcription factor of the polyomavirus enhancer-binding protein 2/core-binding factor ( pebp2/cbf ) family at position -103 .
disruption of the pebp2/cbf site markedly diminish the role of the pebp2/cbf factor in the constitutive transcription of the cd36 gene .
the involvement of member of the pebp2/cbf family in chromosome translocation associate with acute myeloid leukemia , and in the transcriptional regulation of the myeloid-specific gene encode for myeloperoxidase , elastase , and the colony-stimulating factor receptor , highlight the relevance of the regulation of the cd36 gene promoter in monocytic cell by member of the pebp2/cbf family .
the hematopoietic transcription factor pu.1 be downregulated in human multiple myeloma cell line .
pu.1 be a hematopoietic transcription factor belong to the ets-family .
it be identical to the spi-1 oncogene , which be implicate in spleen focus-forming virus-induced murine erythroleukemias .
pu.1 seem to be require for early development of multiple hematopoietic lineage , but it expression in mature cell be preferentially observe in cell of the b-cell-and monocyte/macrophage- differentiation lineage .
it bind the so-called pu box , an important tissue-specific regulatory dna element present in a number of gene express in these cell lineage .
we have analyze the expression and activity of pu.1 during human b-cell development use a panel of b-cell line represent different stage of maturation , from early precursor to differentiate plasma cell .
pu.1 mrna expression and pu.1 dna binding activity , a measure by northern blot analysis and electrophoretic mobility shift assay , respectively , be evident in cell line represent pro-b , pre-b , and mature b cell .
we could also show pu box -dependent transactivation of a reporter gene in transient transfections in these cell line .
in contrast , in a number of multiple myeloma cell line , represent differentiate , plasma cell-like b cell , pu.1 dna binding activity , mrna expression , and pu box -dependent transactivation be absent or detectable at a very low level .
in lymphoblastoid cell line , which exemplify an intermediate stage of b-cell differentiation , a reduce expression and activity be observe .
the finding in the human multiple myeloma cell line represent the first example of b cell with downregulated pu.1 expression and apparently contradict observation in the murine system in which pu.1 be express and active in plasmacytoma cell line .
at present , it be unclear whether the lack of pu.1 expression and activity in human multiple myeloma cell line represent a malignancy-associated defect in these cell or exemplify a normal developmental regulation in terminally differentiate b cell .
induction of monocytic differentiation and nf-kappa b -like activity by human immunodeficiency virus 1 infection of myelomonoblastic cell .
the effect of human immunodeficiency virus 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection on cellular differentiation and nf-kappa b dna binding activity have be investigate in a new model of myeloid differentiation .
plb-985 cell represent a bipotential myelomonoblastic cell population capable of either granulocytic or monocytic differentiation after induction with appropriate inducer .
by virtue of the presence of cd4 on the cell surface , plb-985 cell be chronically infect with hiv-1 strain iiib .
plb-iiib cell clearly possess a more monocytic phenotype than the parental myeloblast , a determine by differential staining , increase expression of the myeloid-specific surface marker , and transcription of the c-fms proto-oncogene .
nf-kappa b binding activity be inducible by tumor necrosis factor and phorbol myristate acetate in plb-985 .
however , in plb-iiib cell , constitutive expression of a novel nf-kappa b complex be detect , compose of protein range between 70 and 110 kd .
these protein interact specifically with the symmetric nf-kappa b site from the interferon beta ( ifn-beta ) promoter .
mutation affect the 5' guanine residue of the kappa b site be unable to compete for these nf-kappa b -related protein .
inducibility of endogenous ifn-beta and ifn-alpha rna be also increase in plb-iiib cell .
these study indicate that hiv-1 infection of myelomonoblastic cell may select for a more mature monocytic phenotype and that unique subunit association of nf-kappa b dna binding protein may contribute to differential nf-kappa b -mediated gene expression .
opposite effect of the acute promyelocytic leukemia pml-retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar alpha ) and plzf-rar alpha fusion protein on retinoic acid signalling .
fusion protein involve the retinoic acid receptor alpha ( rar alpha ) and the pml or plzf nuclear protein be the genetic marker of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apls ) .
apls with the pml-rar alpha or the plzf-rar alpha fusion protein be phenotypically indistinguishable except that they differ in their sensitivity to retinoic acid ( ra ) -induced differentiation : pml-rar alpha blast be sensitive to ra and patient enter disease remission after ra treatment , while patient with plzf-rar alpha do not .
we here report that ( i ) like pml-rar alpha expression , plzf-rar alpha expression block terminal differentiation of hematopoietic precursor cell line ( u937 and hl-60 ) in response to different stimulus ( vitamin d3 , transform growth factor beta1 , and dimethyl sulfoxide ) ; ( ii ) pml-rar alpha , but not plzf-rar alpha , increase ra sensitivity of hematopoietic precursor cell and restore ra sensitivity of ra-resistant hematopoietic cell ; ( iii ) pml-rar alpha and plzf-rar alpha have similar ra binding affinity ; and ( iv ) pml-rar alpha enhance the ra response of ra target gene ( those for rar beta , rar gamma , and transglutaminase type ii [ tgase ] ) in vivo , while plzf-rar alpha expression have either no effect ( rar beta ) or an inhibitory activity ( rar gamma and type ii tgase ) .
these data demonstrate that pml-rar alpha and plzf-rar alpha have similar ( inhibitory ) effect on ra-independent differentiation and opposite ( stimulatory or inhibitory ) effect on ra -dependent differentiation and that they behave in vivo a ra -dependent enhancer or inhibitor of ra -responsive gene , respectively .
their different activity on the ra signalling pathway might underlie the different response of pml-rar alpha and plzf-rar alpha apls to ra treatment .
the plzf-rar alpha fusion protein contain an approximately 120-amino-acid n-terminal motif ( call the poz domain ) , which be also find in a variety of zinc finger protein and a group of poxvirus protein and which mediate protein-protein interaction .
deletion of the plzf poz domain partially abrogate the inhibitory effect of plzf-rar alpha on ra-induced differentiation and on ra-mediated type ii tgase up-regulation , suggest that poz-mediated protein interaction might be responsible for the inhibitory transcriptional activity of plzf-rar alpha .
severe 5-fluorouracil toxicity secondary to dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase deficiency .
a potentially more common pharmacogenetic syndrome .
this study describe the inheritance of a defect in pyrimidine catabolism and it association with drug-induced toxicity in a patient receive 5-fluorouracil ( fura ) a adjuvant chemotherapy for breast carcinoma .
the study population include the affect patient ( proband ) , nine of her blood relative , and seven healthy volunteer .
the activity of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase ( dpd ) , the initial enzyme of pyrimidine ( and fura ) catabolism , in peripheral blood mononuclear cell be measure in each subject by a specific radiometric assay use fura a the substrate .
the proband have no detectable dpd activity .
when enzyme level in the proband and relative be compare with that in control , an autosomal recessive pattern of inheritance be demonstrate .
this be the third patient with severe fura toxicity secondary to an alteration in pyrimidine catabolism and the second from our clinic population suggest that the frequency of this genetic defect may be great than previously think .
monitor dpd activity may be important in the management of patient experience severe toxicity secondary to fura chemotherapy .
switch gear during t-cell maturation : rantes and late transcription .
although much be understand about the induction of gene express early ( within 24 h ) after t-cell activation , little be know about the regulation of expression of gene express ' late ' ( three or more day ) post-stimulation .
a good understanding of transcriptional regulation at this important stage of t-cell maturation may yield new insight into t-cell development and new immunotherapeutic target .
the role of rel/ nf-kappa b protein in viral oncogenesis and the regulation of viral transcription .
rel /nf-kappa b be a ubiquitous transcription factor that consist of multiple polypeptide subunit , and be subject to complex regulatory mechanism that involve protein-protein interaction , phosphorylation , ubiquitination , proteolytic degradation , and nucleocytoplasmic translocation .
the sophisticated control of rel /nf-kappa b activity be not surprising since this transcription factor be involve in a wide array of cellular response to extracellular cue , associate with growth , development , apoptosis , and pathogen invasion .
thus , it be not unexpected that this versatile cellular homeostatic switch would be affect by a variety of viral pathogen , which have evolve mechanism to utilize various aspect of rel /nf-kappa b activity to facilitate their replication , cell survival and possibly evasion of immune response .
this review will cover the molecular mechanism that be utilize by mammalian oncogenic virus to affect the activity of rel/ nf-kappa b transcription factor and the role of rel /nf-kappa b in the regulation of viral gene expression and replication .
danazol decrease transcription of estrogen receptor gene in human monocyte .
1. administration of danazol for over one month reduce the level of estrogen receptor ( er ) and it mrna to approximately 50 and 20 % , respectively in monocyte .
2. danazol do not alter the degradation rate of er mrna in monocyte .
3. danazol decrease the transcription rate of er gene to approximately 50 % in monocyte in a run-on assay .
4. danazol may release estrogen predominance via the reduction of transcription for er gene , which lead to the reduction of er mrna and er expression in monocyte .
target degradation of c-fos , but not v-fos , by a phosphorylation-dependent signal on c-jun .
the proto-oncogene product c-fos and c-jun heterodimerize through their leucine zipper to form the ap-1 transcription factor .
the transcriptional activity of the heterodimer be regulate by signal-dependent phosphorylation and dephosphorylation event .
the stability of c-fos be find to also be control by intracellular signal transduction .
in transient expression and in vitro degradation experiment , the stability of c-fos be decrease when the protein be dimerized with phosphorylated c-jun .
c-jun protein isolate from phorbol ester-induced cell do not target c-fos for degradation , which suggest that c-fos be transiently stabilize after stimulation of cell growth .
v-fos protein , the retroviral counterpart of c-fos , be not susceptible to degradation target by c-jun .
effect of alpha-lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid on expression of proto-oncogene c-fos .
the transcription factor ap-1 be an important human mediator of the cellular response to serum , growth factor , and phorbol ester such a 12-o-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13 acetate ( tpa ) .
the ap-1 complex consist of distinct protein heterodimers encode by the proto-oncogene c-fos and c-jun mrna whose gene expression can be induce by tpa , cyclic amp and growth factor .
recent finding suggest an involvement of reactive oxygen specie in the pathway of tpa and protein kinase c lead to expression of c-fos and c-jun mrna .
to investigate the role of reactive oxygen specie we study the effect of alpha-lipoic acid and dihydrolipoic acid ( natural thiol antioxidant ) on the expression of c-fos mrna in human jurkat t cell .
when cell be preincubated with dihydrolipoic acid ( 0.2 mm ) the expression of c-fos mrna be suppress at 30 min after stimulation of tpa ( 0.5 microm ) whereas in the case of preincubation of alpha-lipoic acid ( 0.2 microm ) , the expression be enhance at 30 min .
these study support the idea that superoxide anion radical play a role in the expression of c-fos mrna .
generation of cytotoxic t lymphocyte against immunorecessive epitope after multiple immunization with adenovirus vector be dependent on haplotype .
currently , adenovirus ( ad ) be be consider a a vector for the treatment of cystic fibrosis as well a other disease .
however , the cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) response to ad could limit the effectiveness of such approach .
since the ctl response to virus infection be often focus on one or a few immunodominant epitope , one approach to circumvent this response be to create vector that lack these immunodominant epitope .
the effectiveness of this approach be test by immunize mouse with human group c adenovirus .
three mouse strain ( c57bl/10snj [ h-2b ] , c3heb/fej [ h-2k ] , and balb/cbyj [ h-2d ] ) be immunize with wild-type ad or ad vector lack the immunodominant antigen ( s ) , and the ctl response be measure .
in c57bl/10 ( b10 ) mouse , a single inoculation intraperitoneally ( i.p. ) lead to the recognition of an immunodominant antigen in e1a .
when b10 mouse be inoculate multiple time either i.p.
or intranasally with wild-type ad or an ad vector lack most of the e1 region , subdominant epitope outside this region be recognize .
in contrast , c3h mouse inoculate with wild-type ad recognize an epitope map within e1b . when inoculate twice with ad vector lack both e1a and e1b , no immunorecessive epitope be recognize .
the immune response to ad in balb/c mouse be more complex .
ctls from balb/c mouse inoculate i.p. with wild-type ad recognize e1b in the context of the major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class i dd allele and a region outside e1 associate with the kd allele .
when balb/c mouse be inoculate with e1 -deleted ad vector , only the immunodominant kd-restricted epitope be recognize , and dd-restricted ctls do not develop .
this report indicate that the emergence of ctls against immunorecessive epitope follow multiple administration of ad vector lack immunodominant antigen be dependent on haplotype and could present an obstacle to gene therapy in an mhc -diverse human population .
abnormality of oct-1 dna binding in t cell from sjogren 's syndrome patient .
primary sjogren 's syndrome ( s ) be an autoimmune rheumatic disease characterize by t cell hypoactivity .
to understand the diminish t cell response to activation signal , we measure nucleoprotein dna-binding activity regulate gene expression during t cell activation use the electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
peripheral blood lymphocyte from 9/19 s patient be find to be defective in their ability to bind an october sequence ( oct-1 ) .
this oct-1 -binding phenotype remain stable in culture for up to 3 day prior to activation .
this abnormality be not see in rest t cell nor t cell from patient with systemic lupus erythematosus , rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) , or s accompany by ra .
the s oct-1 dna-binding abnormality correlate significantly with an inability of cell to exit the gzero/g1 cell cycle phase when stimulate in vitro .
importantly , nucleoprotein extract show decrease dna-binding activity have normal amount of oct-1 protein a determine by immunoprecipitation , imply a functional defect in the oct-1 protein .
moreover , defective dna binding be correct by treatment with acid phosphatase .
response to intranasal fluticasone propionate in perennial allergic rhinitis not associate with glucocorticoid receptor characteristic .
background : the reduction of symptom due to treatment with corticosteroid vary among patient with perennial rhinitis .
most patient will respond but a few patient respond less to these drug .
objective : to investigate the association in reduction of symptom due to glucocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor characteristic in patient with perennial allergic rhinitis , in vitro glucocorticoid receptor binding study be perform with peripheral blood mononuclear cell use dexamethasone and in vitro production of mediator be measure .
method : during a double-blind placebo-controlled crossover study , 200 microgram fluticasone propionate aqueous nasal spray ( in the active treatment period ) and placebo ( in the placebo treatment period ) be administer twice daily for 2 week to 22 patient allergic to house dust mite .
at the end of both treatment period symptom be score after allergen provocation ( 100 , 1000 , 10000 bu/ml ) and during the 9.5 hour after this challenge .
receptor binding study with dexamethasone be perform with peripheral blood mononuclear cell .
leukotriene b4 produce by monocyte in vitro and soluble interleukin-2 receptor release by lymphocyte in vitro and cortisol level in plasma be determine .
result : no significant partial correlation of the number of the peripheral blood mononuclear cell glucocorticoid receptor ( 6821 +/- 5669 bind site per cell ) and the affinity ( kd : 16.5 +/- 13.51 nmol/l ) for the glucocorticoid receptor with the symptom score ( placebo : 4.3 +/- 2.45 pt ; fluticasone : 2.4 +/- 1.55 pt ) after active treatment be find .
also no significant partial correlation of the level of leukotriene b4 ( 45.6 +/- 105.3 ng/10(6) cell ) produce by monocyte in vitro , soluble interleukin-2 receptor ( 734 +/- 237 ng/10(6) cell ) release by lymphocyte in vitro and cortisol level ( 571 +/- 236 ng/ml ) in plasma with the symptom score after active treatment be find .
conclusion : the reduction of symptom due to topical fluticasone propionate in patient with rhinitis and allergy to house dust mite be not correlate with the characteristic of the glucocorticoid receptor .
regulation of sialoadhesin expression on rat macrophage .
induction by glucocorticoid and enhancement by ifn-beta , ifn-gamma , il-4 , and lipopolysaccharide .
sialoadhesin be a macrophage-restricted member of the ig superfamily that mediate adhesion with lymphoid and myeloid cell .
it be express on a subpopulation of macrophage in lymphoid tissue and in chronic inflammation ( e.g. , during autoimmune disease ) .
we have study the regulation of sialoadhesin expression in vitro and show that glucocorticoid ( gc ) induce sialoadhesin expression on freshly isolate rat macrophage and the rat macrophage cell line r2 .
the cytokine ifn-beta , ifn-gamma , il-4 , and lp , although unable to induce sialoadhesin expression by themselves , be able to enhance gc -mediated induction of sialoadhesin .
sialoadhesin expression be functional a show by cell adhesion assay with human rbc .
northern blot experiment indicate that regulation predominantly occur at the mrna level .
comparison of the different combination of gc and cytokine /lps reveal difference in the level of gc -dependent enhancement of sialoadhesin expression , with ifn-beta and il-4 be more potent than ifn-gamma and lp .
moreover , the effect of ifn-gamma and lp could be reproduce by priming , whereas ifn-beta and il-4 be require simultaneously with gc .
the regulation of sialoadhesin expression be mediate by the gc receptor , and not by mineralocorticoid receptor , a show by inhibition experiment with specific antagonist .
finally , it be demonstrate that macrophage in the adrenal gland , the major site of endogenous gc production , express sialoadhesin .
this study demonstrate that gc act a a primary inducer of sialoadhesin expression on rat macrophage , and that the response can be enhance by ifn-beta , t cell-derived cytokine , or lp .
stimulation of b and t cell activate expression of transcription and differentiation factor .
during b and t cell differentiation and proliferation many gene be induce or repress while certain gene be constitutively express .
to investigate process related to b and t cell activation , the gene expression of stimulate and nonstimulated ramos and jurkat cell be study use cdna microarray technology .
simultaneous analysis of close to 600 gene indicate high increase in the expression of certain transcription , differentiation and proliferation factor .
many of these gene have not previously be show to funcion in the stimulate lymphocyte .
also gene encode protein involve in dna replication , binding , transcription and translation be induce .
large part of the activate gene be under very stringent regulation be express only after stimulation .
the mechanism and function of the express gene during lymphocyte differentiation and in disorder be discuss .
suppression by azelastine hydrochloride of nf-kappa b activation involve in generation of cytokine and nitric oxide .
the influence of the anti-allergy agent azelastine hydrochloride ( azeptin ) on nf-kappa b activation associate with the generation of cytokine and nitric oxide ( no ) be investigate in various kind of human and mouse cell .
azeptin dose-dependently suppress both dna and protein synthesis in human gingival fibroblast ( hf ) and also suppress blastogenesis of human peripheral blood lymphocyte ( pbl ) . generation of tumor necrosis factor-alpha , interleukin 1-beta , granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor and interleukin-6 from 10(-5) m azeptin -treated pbl and human monocyte ( hm ) be decrease to approximately 1/3 to 2/3 of the control level .
in parallel with the decrease cytokine generation , each cytokine mrna be less express in the presence of 10(-5) m azeptin .
in addition , both inducible nitric oxide synthase -mrna level and no generation in mouse peritoneal macrophage be suppress by 10(-5) m azeptin .
be compatible with those result , azeptin ( 10(-5) m ) suppress activation of nf-kappa b in pbl , hm and hf .
these result appear to indicate that suppression of cytokine and no generation by azeptin result at least partially from the inhibition of nf-kappa b activation .
thrombin generation by apoptotic vascular smooth muscle cell .
thrombin activation require assembly of a prothrombinase complex of activate coagulation factor on an anionic phospholipid surface , classically provide by activate platelet .
we have previously show that anionic phosphatidylserine be expose by rat vascular smooth muscle cell ( vsmcs ) undergo apoptosis after serum withdrawal .
in this study , use a chromogenic assay , we have show thrombin generation by apoptotic vsmcs express c-myc ( vsmc-myc ) with an area under the thrombin -generation curve ( auc ) of 305 +/- 17 nmol x min/l and a peak thrombin ( pt ) of 154 +/- 9 nmol/l .
the thrombin -generating potential of the apoptotic vsmc-myc cell be great than that of unactivated platelet ( p = .003 for auc ; p = .0002 for pt ) and similar to calcium-ionophore activate platelet ( auc of 332 +/- 15 nmol x min/l , p = .3 ; pt of 172 +/- 8 nmol/l , p = .2 ) .
thrombin activation be also see with apoptotic human vsmcs ( auc of 211 +/- 8 nmol x min/l ; pt of 103 +/- 4 nmol/l ) and be inhibit by annexin v ( p < .0001 for auc and pt ) .
vsmc-myc cell maintain in serum generate less thrombin than after serum withdrawal ( p = .0002 for auc and pt ) .
vsmcs derive from human coronary atherosclerotic plaque that apoptose even in serum also generate thrombin ( auc of 260 +/- 2 nmol x min/l ; pt of 128 +/- 4 nmol/l ) .
we conclude that apoptotic vsmcs possess a significant thrombin -generating capacity secondary to phosphatidylserine exposure .
apoptotic cell within atherosclerotic plaque may allow local thrombin activation , thereby contribute to disease progression .
separation of oxidant-initiated and redox-regulated step in the nf-kappa b signal transduction pathway .
study present here show that overall nf-kappa b signal transduction begin with a parallel series of stimuli-specific pathway through which cytokine ( tumor necrosis factor alpha ) , oxidant ( hydrogen peroxide and mitomycin c ) , and phorbol ester ( phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate ) individually initiate signaling .
these initial pathway culminate in a common pathway through which all of the stimulate agent ultimately signal nf-kappa b activation .
we distinguish the stimuli-specific pathway by show that the oxidative stimulus trigger nf-kappa b activation in only one of two human t-cell line ( wurzburg but not jurkat ) , whereas tumor necrosis factor alpha and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate readily stimulate in both line .
we propose the common pathway a the simple way of accounting for the common requirement and property of the signaling pathway .
we include a redox-regulatory mechanism ( s ) in this common pathway to account for the previously demonstrate redox regulation of nf-kappa b activation in jurkat cell ( in which oxidant do n't activate nf-kappa b ) ; we put tyrosine phosphorylation in the common pathway by show that kinase activity ( inhibitable by herbimycin a and tyrphostin 47 ) be require for nf-kappa b activation by all stimulus test in both cell line .
since internal site of oxidant production have be show to play a key role in the cytokine -stimulated activation of nf-kappa b , and since tyrosine kinase and phosphatase activity be know to be alter by oxidant , these finding suggest that intracellular redox status control nf-kappa b activation by regulate tyrosine phosphorylation event ( s ) within the common step of the nf-kappa b signal transduction pathway .
the role of caspase in t cell development and the control of immune response .
apoptosis be responsible for the removal of potentially autoreactive or useless t cell during thymic selection and activate t cell in the periphery .
specific family of receptor , kinase , transcription factor , and cysteine protease , term caspase , be involve in the apoptotic cascade lead to proteolysis of specific substrate and to morphological change associate with program cell death .
although common member of the apoptotic cascade be share between different cell type , it appear that cell-specific factor can influence the response to a given apoptotic stimulus .
characterization and understanding of the basic mechanism involve in the different pathway protect or lead to cell death may provide novel way to control inappropriate apoptosis involve in several disease .
human t-cell leukemia virus type i tax activation of nf-kappa b /rel involve phosphorylation and degradation of i kappa b alpha and rela ( p65 ) -mediated induction of the c-rel gene .
the tax gene product of human t-cell leukemia virus type i ( htlv-i ) be a potent transcriptional activator that both stimulate viral gene expression and activate an array of cellular gene involve in t-cell growth .
tax act indirectly by induce or modify the action of various host transcription factor , include member of the nf-kappa b /rel family of enhancer-binding protein .
in rest t cell , many of these nf-kappa b /rel factor be sequester in the cytoplasm by various ankyrin-rich inhibitory protein , include i kappa b alpha .
htlv-i tax expression lead to the constitutive nuclear expression of biologically active nf-kappa b and c-rel complex ; however , the biochemical mechanism ( s ) underlie this response remain poorly understand .
in this study , we demonstrate that tax -stimulated nuclear expression of nf-kappa b in both htlv-i -infected and tax -transfected human t cell be associate with the phosphorylation and rapid proteolytic degradation of i kappa b alpha .
in contrast to prior in vitro study , at least a fraction of the phosphorylated form of i kappa b alpha remain physically associate with the nf-kappa b complex in vivo but be subject to rapid degradation , thereby promote the nuclear translocation of the active nf-kappa b complex .
we far demonstrate that tax induction of nuclear c-rel expression be activate by the rela ( p65 ) subunit of nf-kappa b , which activate transcription of the c-rel gene through an intrinsic kappa b enhancer element .
in normal cell , the subsequent accumulation of nuclear c-rel act to inhibit it own continued production , indicate the presence of an autoregulatory loop .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
a novel transcription factor regulate expression of the vacuolar h+-atpase b2 subunit through ap-2 site during monocytic differentiation .
during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation , the cellular content of vacuolar h+-atpase ( v-atpase ) increase more than 4-fold .
we have show previously that amplify expression of the b2 subunit of the v-atpase occur solely by increase transcription , and that the 5'-untranslated region of the b2 gene , contain multiple consensus binding site for the transcription factor ap-2 and sp1 , be require for this expression .
the present study demonstrate that ap-2 binding sequence be essential for increase transcription from the b2 promoter during monocyte-macrophage differentiation and that ap-2 , express exogenously in thp-1 and other cell , activate transcription from the b2 promoter .
in mobility shift assay , a nuclear factor from thp-1 and u-937 cell be identify that bind to several ap-2 response element within the b2 promoter , but do not react with ap-2 antibody , and have a dna sequence binding affinity profile that differ from ap-2 .
these finding suggest that a novel ap-2 -like transcription factor be responsible for v-atpase b subunit amplification during monocyte differentiation .
targeted disruption of the myd88 gene result in loss of il-1- and il-18- mediated function .
myd88 , originally isolate a a myeloid differentiation primary response gene , be show to act a an adaptor in interleukin-1 ( il-1 ) signaling by interact with both the il-1 receptor complex and il-1 receptor-associated kinase ( irak ) .
mouse generate by gene targeting to lack myd88 have defect in t cell proliferation as well a induction of acute phase protein and cytokine in response to il-1 .
increase in interferon-gamma production and natural killer cell activity in response to il-18 be abrogate .
in vivo th1 response be also impaired .
furthermore , il-18 -induced activation of nf-kappab and c-jun n-terminal kinase ( jnk ) be block in myd88 -/- th1-developing cell .
take together , these result demonstrate that myd88 be a critical component in the signaling cascade that be mediate by il-1 receptor as well a il-18 receptor .
induction of the pou domain transcription factor oct-2 during t-cell activation by cognate antigen .
oct-2 be a transcription factor that bind specifically to octamer dna motif in the promoter of immunoglobulin and interleukin-2 gene .
all tumor cell line from the b-cell lineage and a few from the t-cell lineage express oct-2 .
to address the role of oct-2 in the t-cell lineage , we study the expression of oct-2 mrna and protein in nontransformed human and mouse t cell .
oct-2 be find in cd4+ and cd8+ t cell prepare from human peripheral blood and in mouse lymph node t cell .
in a t-cell clone specific for pigeon cytochrome c in the context of i-ek , oct-2 be induce by antigen stimulation , with the increase in oct-2 protein see first at 3 h after activation and continue for at least 24 h .
oct-2 mrna induction during antigen-driven t-cell activation be block by cyclosporin a , as well a by protein synthesis inhibitor .
these result suggest that oct-2 participate in transcriptional regulation during t-cell activation . the relatively delay kinetics of oct-2 induction suggest that oct-2 mediate the change in gene expression which occur many hour or day follow antigen stimulation of t lymphocyte .
transcriptional regulation of the gene encode the human c-type lectin leukocyte receptor aim/cd69 and functional characterization of it tumor necrosis factor-alpha -responsive element .
the human activation antigen cd69 be a member of the c-type animal lectin superfamily that function a a signal-transmitting receptor .
although the expression of cd69 can be induce in vitro on cell of most hematopoietic lineage with a wide variety of stimulus , in vivo it be mainly express by t- lymphocyte located in the inflammatory infiltrates of several human disease .
to elucidate the mechanism that regulate the constitutive and inducible expression of cd69 by leukocyte , we isolate the promoter region of the cd69 gene and carry out it functional characterization .
sequence analysis of the 5'-flanking region of the cd69 gene reveal the presence of a potential tata element 30 base pair upstream of the major transcription initiation site and several putative binding sequence for inducible transcription factor ( nf-kappa b , egr-1 , ap-1 ) , which might mediate the inducible expression of this gene .
transient expression of cd69 promoter-based reporter gene construct in k562 cell indicate that the proximal promoter region span position -78 to +16 contain the cis-acting sequence necessary for basal and phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate -inducible transcription of the cd69 gene .
removal of the upstream sequence located between position -78 and -38 result in decrease promoter strength and abolish the response to phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate .
we also find that tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) be capable of induce the surface expression of the cd69 molecule as well a the promoter activity of fusion plasmid that contain 5'-flanking sequence of the cd69 gene , suggest that this cytokine may regulate in vivo the expression of cd69 .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
transcription factor a target for oxidative signalling during lymphocyte activation .
we previously have demonstrate a requirement for oxidative event during cell cycle entry in t lymphocyte and have hypothesise that reactive oxygen specie may act a intracellular signal agent during lymphocyte activation .
in the current study , cysteamine , an aminothiol compound with antioxidant activity , have be use to far investigate the role of oxidative signalling during lymphocyte activation .
treatment of normal human peripheral blood lymphocyte with cysteamine in vitro be find to inhibit proliferation in a dose-dependent manner , with essentially complete inhibition occur at a dose of 400 microm .
this inhibitory effect be limited to the first 2 h after mitogenic activation , localize the time-frame of action of cysteamine to within the commitment period .
it therefore be of interest to establish which , if any , commitment event be affect by oxidative signalling during cell cycle entry .
take the il-2 gene a a candidate , we examine the effect of cysteamine treatment on early gene expression during lymphocyte activation , and on the activity of transcription factor ap-1 , nf-kappa b , nf-at and oct1 , whose function be require for expression of the il-2 mrna .
cysteamine treatment inhibit both expression of the il-2 mrna and secretion of il-2 into the culture medium .
the inhibitory effect of cysteamine may be mediate at least in part by an effect on transcription factor function , a the dna binding activity of ap-1 and nf-kappa b extract from mitogen-stimulated cell be significantly inhibit by cysteamine treatment .
interestingly , oct1 and nf-at dna binding activity be not affect by cysteamine treatment , suggest that oxidative signalling process operate in a selective manner .
the identification of regulatory protein , such a transcription factor , a molecular target for oxidative signalling provide further evidence to implicate oxidative signalling a be intimately involve in the g0 to g1 phase transition in t lymphocyte .
lipopolysaccharide induction of tissue factor gene expression in monocytic cell be mediate by binding of c-rel/p65 heterodimers to a kappa b-like site .
exposure of monocytic cell to bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) activate the nf-kappa b /rel family of protein and lead to the rapid induction of inflammatory gene product , include tissue factor ( tf ) .
tf be the primary cellular initiator of the coagulation protease cascade .
here we report the characterization of a nuclear complex from human monocytic cell that bind to a kappa b-like site , 5'-cggagtttcc-3' , in the 5'-flanking region of the human tf gene .
this nuclear complex be activate by lp with kinetics that precede induction of the tf gene .
in vitro binding study demonstrate that the tf site bind translate c- rel and p65 homodimers but not p50/p65 heterodimers or p50 homodimers .
base-pair substitution in the tf site indicate that the presence of a cytosine at position 1 preclude binding of nf-kappa b .
in fact , under low-ionic-strength condition , the tf complex do not migrate with translate p50/p65 dimer but instead comigrated with c-rel /p65 dimer .
antibody against the nf-kappa b and rel protein and uv cross-linking study reveal the presence of c-rel and p65 and the absence of p50 in the tf complex and far show that c-rel/ p65 heterodimers selectively bind to the tf kappa b-like site .
functional study indicate that the tf site confer lp inducibility on a heterologous promoter and be transactivated by c-rel or p65 .
take together , our result demonstrate that binding of c-rel/ p65 heterodimers to a novel kappa b-like site mediate lp induction of tf gene expression in monocytic cell .
appraisal of potential therapeutic index of antioxidant on the basis of their in vitro effect on hiv replication in monocyte and interleukin 2 -induced lymphocyte proliferation .
antioxidant molecule have be suggest to be of therapeutic value in the treatment of hiv -infected patient .
to evaluate this possibility , we examine in vitro the effect of two type of antioxidant molecule in term of inhibition of hiv replication in monocyte , one of the main reservoir of hiv , and also in term of modulation of the immune competence a measure by pbmc proliferation .
we test the effect of bha , a phenolic , lipid-soluble , chain-breaking antioxidant , and nac , a known glutathione precursor with some direct free-radical scavenging property as well , on the regulation of hiv -1 expression in latently infected u1 cell and in productively and chronically infected u937 cell .
both antioxidant inhibit tnf - or pma- induced nf-kappa b activity in u1 cell , as well a the sustained nf-kappa b activity permanently induce by the virus itself in chronically hiv -infected u937 cell .
this result in only a partial inhibition of tnf - or pma- induced hiv replication in u1 cell , and no detectable effect on hiv replication in chronically infected u937 cell .
this may be the first limitation to potential antiviral effect of antioxidant therapy .
another limitation be that antioxidant concentration high enough to block nk-kappa b activation be show to have a suppressive effect on immune function in vitro , because nac and bha block il-2 -induced pbmc proliferation .
these data warrant prudence in the design of antioxidant-based therapy aim at suppress hiv replication .
abundant expression of erythroid transcription factor p45 nf-e2 mrna in human peripheral granurocytes .
transcription factor nf-e2 be crucial for regulation of erythroid-specific gene expression .
p45 subunit of nf-e2 contain a basic-leucine zipper domain and dimerizes with the small maf family protein to form functional nf-e2 complex .
while p45 expression be show to be restricted to erythroid cell , megakaryocyte and mast cell in hematopoietic lineage , we find in this study that p45 mrna be abundantly transcribe in the granulocyte fraction of human peripheral blood cell .
a neutrophil occupy approximately 92 % of the cell in granulocyte fraction of human peripheral blood cell .
a neutrophil occupy approximately 92 % of the cell in this fraction , the cell express p45 be most likely to be neutrophil .
p45 mrna be also express in hl-60 promyelocytes , albeit the expression level be much low than that of the granulocyte fraction .
hl-60 cell be find to express mafk mrna , indicate the presence of genuine nf-e2 complex in the cell .
although p45 mrna be transcribe from two different promoter , anf-e2 promoter and fnf-e2 promoter , in erythroid and megakaryocytic lineage cell , p45 mrna be transcribe only from anf-e2 promoter .
the expression of p45 megakaryocytic lineage cell , p45 mrna be transcribe only from anf-e2 promoter .
the expression of p45 mrna in the neutrophil decline rapidly after transfer of the cell to in vitro culture and g-csf could not sustain the expression from the down-regulation , suggest the e2 may also participate in the regulation of neutrophil-specific gene expression .
tyrosine 113 , 128 , and 145 of slp-76 be require for optimal augmentation of nfat promoter activity .
slp-76 ( sh2 domain leukocyte protein of 76 kda ) be a recently identify substrate of the tcr-stimulated protein tyrosine kinase that function in the signal transduction cascade link the tcr with il-2 gene expression .
in this report , we demonstrate that engagement of the tcr result in tyrosine phosphorylation of slp-76 in it amino-terminal acidic region .
two tyrosine ( y113 and y128 ) fall within an identical five amino-acid motif and be show to be phosphorylated upon tcr ligation .
although mutation of either y113 and y128 have a minimal effect on slp-76 function , mutation of both residue decrease significantly the ability of slp-76 to promote t cell activation .
a third tyrosine within the amino-terminal region ( y145 ) appear to be the most important for optimal slp-76 function , a alter it alone to phenylalanine have a potent impact on slp-76 augmentation of nfat promoter activity .
thrombopoietin support in vitro erythroid differentiation via it specific receptor c-mpl in a human leukemia cell line .
thrombopoietin ( tpo ) act on megakaryopoiesis and erythropoiesis in vitro and in vivo .
we isolate a novel subline , ut-7/gmt , from the human leukemia cell line ut-7/gm ( n. komatsu , et al. , blood , 89 : 4021-4033 , 1997 ) .
a small population of ut-7/gm cell positively stain for hemoglobin ( hb ) after a 7-day exposure to tpo .
more than 50 % of tpo -treated ut-7/gmt cell positively stain for hb .
use ut-7/gmt cell , we examine how tpo promote hemoglobinization .
tpo induce tyrosine phosphorylation of the tpo receptor but not the erythropoietin ( epo ) receptor .
there be no competition between tpo and epo for binding to epo receptor .
these finding suggest that tpo have a direct effect on hemoglobinization via a specific receptor on ut-7/gmt cell .
isoelectric focusing demonstrate that tpo induce fetal and adult hb synthesis , whereas epo induce embryonic , fetal , and adult hb synthesis .
thus , our data suggest that tpo have a distinct action on erythropoiesis .
mechanism of transactivation by nuclear factor of activate t cell -1 .
nuclear factor of activate t cells-family protein ( nfat1/ nfatp , nfatc , nfat3 , and nfat4/nfatx/nfatc3 ) play a key role in the transcription of cytokine gene and other gene during the immune response .
we have define the mechanism of transactivation by nfat1 .
nfat1 possess two transactivation domain whose sequence be not conserve in the other nfat-family protein , and a conserve dna-binding domain that mediate the recruitment of cooperate nuclear transcription factor even when it be express in the absence of other region of the protein .
the activity of the nh2-terminal transactivation domain be modulate by an adjacent regulatory region that contain several conserve sequence motif represent only in the nfat family .
our result emphasize the multiple level at which nfat-dependent transactivation be regulate , and predict significant difference in the architecture of cooperative transcription complex contain different nfat-family protein .
the t cell activation factor nf-atc positively regulate hiv-1 replication and gene expression in t cell .
clinical deterioration in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection be associate with increase level of viral replication and burden in the peripheral blood and lymphoid organ .
t cell activation and ensuing cellular gene activation can be critical for hiv-1 replication .
the hypothesis that the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nf-at ) may influence hiv-1 replication be therefore compelling give the tight correlation of hiv-1 transcriptional induction to t cell activation .
we report that certain nf-at ( rel ) family member productively bind the kappab regulatory element , synergize with nf-kappab and tat in transcriptional activation of hiv-1 , and enhance hiv-1 replication in t cell .
these result link regulatory factor critical to t cell commitment directly to hiv-1 replication .
the myeloid-cell-specific c-fes promoter be regulate by sp1 , pu.1 , and a novel transcription factor .
the protein product of the c-fps/fes ( c-fes ) proto-oncogene have be implicate in the normal development of myeloid cell ( macrophage and neutrophil ) .
mrna for c-fes have be detect exclusively in myeloid cell and vascular endothelial cell in adult mammal .
although a 13-kilobase-pair ( kb ) human c-fes transgene exhibit high level of expression in mouse , the sequence that confer myeloid-cell-specific expression of the human c-fes gene have not be define .
transient-transfection experiment demonstrate that plasmid contain 446 bp of c-fes 5'-flanking sequence link to a luciferase reporter gene be active exclusively in myeloid cell .
no other dna element within the 13-kb human c-fes locus contain positive cis-acting element , with the exception of a weakly active region within the 3'-flanking sequence .
dnase i footprinting assay reveal four distinct site that bind myeloid nuclear protein ( -408 to -386 , -293 to -254 , -76 to -65 , and -34 to +3 ) .
however , the first two footprint reside in sequence that be largely dispensable for transient activity .
plasmid contain 151 bp of 5'-flanking sequence confer myeloid-cell-specific gene expression .
electrophoretic mobility shift analysis demonstrate that the 151-bp region contain nuclear protein binding site for sp1 , pu.1 , and/or elf-1 , and a novel factor .
this unidentified factor bind immediately 3' of the pu.1 /elf-1 site and appear to be myeloid cell specific .
mutation of the pu.1 /elf-1 site or the 3' site ( fp4-3' ) within the context of the c-fes promoter result in substantially reduce activity in transient transfections .
furthermore , transient-cotransfection assay demonstrate that pu.1 ( and not elf-1 ) can transactivate the c-fes promoter in nonmyeloid cell line .
we conclude that the human c-fes gene contain a strong myeloid-cell-specific promoter that be regulate by sp1 , pu.1 , and a novel transcription factor .
distinct dnase-i hypersensitive site be associate with tal-1 transcription in erythroid and t-cell line .
the tal-1 gene , frequently activate in human t-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia ( t-all ) , be express in the erythroid , megakaryocytic , and mast cell lineage during normal hematopoiesis .
to gain further insight into the molecular mechanism that control tal-1 expression , we investigate tal-1 chromatin structure in erythroid/megakaryocytic cell line and in t-cell line either with or without tal-1 rearrangement .
tal-1 transcription be show to be monoallelic in jurkat , a t-cell line that express tal-1 in the absence of apparent genomic alteration of the locus .
methylation study indicate that the tal-15 ' gc-rich region behave like a cpg island , hypomethylated in normal cell , and methylated de novo on transcriptionally inactive allele in established cell line .
five major dnase-i hypersensitive site ( h ) be map in the tal-1 locus .
h i , iv , and v be exclusively observe in the erythroid/megakaryocytic cell line that express tal-1 from the promoter 1a and 1b .
h ii be weak in hematopoietic cell line , absent in hela , and greatly enhance in jurkat , suggest that this region might be implicate in the cis-activation of tal-1 promoter 1b in this cell line .
h iii be weak in hel and jurkat , and greatly enhance in du528 , a t-cell line that bear a t_(1;14) and initiate tal-1 transcription within exon 4 .
these result suggest that distinct regulatory element be associate with the use of the different tal-1 promoter .
retinoic acid inhibit cd40 + interleukin-4 -mediated ige production in vitro .
to elucidate the role of retinoic acid ( ra ) in anti- cd40 + interleukin-4 ( il-4 ) -mediated b-cell activation , the effect of 10(-12) to 10(-6) mol/l ra be study in anti-cd40 ( 1 microgram/ml ) + il-4 ( 5 ng/ml ) -mediated proliferation and ig synthesis by human peripheral blood mononuclear cell ( pbmc ) and b cell in healthy donor .
anti-cd40 + il-4 -mediated proliferation of pbmc and b cell be inhibit by ra in a dose-dependent manner , with maximal inhibition of 62 % +/- 5 % in pbmc and 55 % +/- 4.4 % in b cell by all-trans ra , and 58 % +/- 6.7 % and 51 % +/- 4.7 % , respectively by 13-cis ra .
ige synthesis be even more markedly inhibit by ra start at concentration of > 10(-14) mol/l for b cell and > 10(-10) mol/l for pbmc .
maximal inhibition of ige production for b cell be at 10(-8) mol/l for all-trans ra ( 94 % +/- 1.8 % ) and 96 % +/- 3.2 % for 13-cis ra .
low concentration of ra inhibit ige synthesis ( 10(-10) mol/l ) affect neither b-cell proliferation nor the production of iga , igg , and igm .
elucidation of the mechanism involve in this inhibition of ige production show that epsilon germline transcription be decrease by ra , whereas production of interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) be not enhance in the presence of ra .
to differentiate whether the ra effect be mediate by ra receptor alpha , beta , and gamma , the expression of the retinoic acid receptor ( rar ) be examine by reverse transcriptase -polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) .
the data show that unstimulated human peripheral b cell express mrna of the ra receptor alpha , beta , and gamma .
use retinoids with different receptor binding specificity ( cd336 , cd437 , cd2019 , cd367 ) , dose-dependent inhibition of ige synthesis be show by all four derivates , but be most mark by an ra bind the alpha receptor with high specificity .
take together , this study show that ra inhibit ige production of anti-cd40 + il-4 -stimulated b cell in vitro .
copyright 1998 by the american society of hematology .
human cd3-cd16+ natural killer cell express the hgata-3 t cell transcription factor and an unrearranged 2.3-kb tcr delta transcript .
in this study we analyze the t cell receptor ( tcr ) delta transcript express by cd3-cd16+ cell and we investigate whether these cell express the hgata-3 t cell transcription factor and the recombination-activating gene ( rag ) -1 .
multiple tcr delta transcript derive from an unrearranged tcr delta gene be detect in both polyclonal and clonal cd3-cd16+ natural killer ( nk ) cell line .
two unrearranged tcr delta transcript have a size similar to that of the functional tcr delta mrna ( 2.3 and 1.3 kb ) find in tcr gamma/delta+ t lymphocyte .
sequence analysis of nine different 2.3-kb cdna clone obtain from nk-derived polya+ rna confirm that they correspond to an unrearranged tcr delta gene .
these cdna be 2343 bp long and their transcription initiation site be located 814 bp upstream from the j delta 1 segment .
the sequence located upstream of the j delta 1 segment correspond to the previously report germ-line sequence .
the j delta 1 segment be correctly splice to c delta ; in addition the four c delta exon be find to be already assemble .
two polyadenylation site be present in the fourth c delta exon .
however , only that located at the 3' end appear to be utilize in the 2.3-kb cdna .
the expression of hgata-3 , a t cell-specific factor know to be involve in the regulation of the transcription of tcr delta locus , be analyze by northern blot , in culture nk cell population and clone ( but not in freshly derive cell population ) .
all nk clone and cell line study be find to express hgata-3-specific mrna , suggest that hgata-3 may be involve in the regulation of the unrearranged tcr delta gene expression in nk cell .
finally , no transcription of the rag-1 gene could be detect in all nk cell line or clone analyze .
a novel function of stat1 and stat3 protein in erythropoietin -induced erythroid differentiation of a human leukemia cell line .
we recently determine that erythropoietin ( epo ) activate 3 member of the signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) family , stat1alpha , stat3 , and stat5 , in the human epo -dependent cell line , ut-7 and ut-7/ epo ( kirito et al , j biol chem 272 : 16507 , 1997 ) .
in addition , we have show that stat1alpha , but not stat3 , be involve in epo -induced cellular proliferation .
in this study , we examine the role of stat1alpha and stat3 in epo -induced erythroid differentiation .
ut-7/gm be use a a model system , because this cell line can differentiate into erythroid-lineage cell with epo treatment ( komatsu et al , blood 89 : 4021 , 1997 ) .
we find that epo do not activate stat1alpha or stat3 in ut-7/gm cell .
transfection experiment show that both stat1alpha and stat3 inhibit the induction by epo of gamma-globin and erythroid-specific 5-aminolevulinate synthetase transcript , result in a reduction of the percentage of hemoglobin-positive cell .
dominant negative form of stat1alpha or stat3 promote the epo -induced erythroid differentiation of ut-7/gm cell , even in the presence of granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor , although this cytokine never induce erythroid differentiation of the parent ut-7/gm cell with or without epo .
a cell cycle analysis show that the constitutive activation of stat1alpha , but not stat3 , shorten the period of g0/g1 prolongation cause by epo stimulation .
take together , our data suggest that stat1alpha and stat3 act a negative regulator in epo -induced erythroid differentiation .
specifically , stat1alpha may activate a cell cycle-associated gene ( s ) , lead to the entry of cell into the cell cycle .
a novel primer extension method to detect the number of cag repeat in the androgen receptor gene in family with x-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy .
x-linked spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy ( sbma ) , an adult-onset form of motor neuron disease , be recently report to be cause by amplification of the cag repeat in the androgen receptor gene .
we report here a simple and rapid strategy to detect the precise number of the cags .
after the dna fragment contain the cag repeat be amplify by the polymerase chain reaction , a primer extension be carry out ; the extension of the end-labelled reverse primer adjacent to 3' end of cag repeat stop at the first t after cag repeat with the incorporation of dideoxy atp in the reaction mixture .
the resultant primer product be analyse by denature polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and autoradiography .
this method could be quite useful to detect not only cag repeat in sbma but also other polymorphic dinucleotide and trinucleotide repeat .
selection of a diverse tcr repertoire in response to an epstein-barr virus -encoded transactivator protein bzlf1 by cd8+ cytotoxic t lymphocyte during primary and persistent infection .
we investigate the cd8+ cytotoxic t lymphocyte ( ctl ) repertoire to an hla b8-restricted peptide , rakfkqllq , located in the epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) immediate-early protein , bzlf1 .
repertoire selection be monitor by determine the tcr beta chain sequence of rakfkqllq -specific ctl establish from primary infected and healthy virus carrier .
pcr analysis of spontaneous ebv -transformed lymphoblastoid cell line ( lcl ) from three individual with primary infection show that two be infect with type a and one with type b ebv .
polyclonal and clonal ctl that be generate by stimulate peripheral blood mononuclear cell with an hla b8+ homozygous lcl lysed t cell blast pulsed with the peptide , rakfkqllq ; lysis of certain hla b8+ lcl target be associate with the abundance of bzlf1 transcript .
tcr beta analysis show that while there be loop length restriction in the putative peptide contact site of all respond beta chain , diverse and unique ( non-recurrent ) tcr beta clonotypes be select in individual during primary infection and continue to emerge after long-term virus exposure .
tcr -contact site heterogeneity be exclude a the selective force in diversity generation since the epitope-encoded sequence be find to be identical within endogenous virus isolates .
in this first study of tcr repertoire selection for an ebv lytic antigen , a bzlf1 -reactive component of diverse clonotypes be identify in primary type a or type b ebv infection which be sustained in the ebv -specific memory response throughout life-long infection .
this diversity selection be likely to play a critical role in maintain a balanced viral load throughout ebv persistence .
recognition of herpes simplex virus type 2 tegument protein by cd4 t cell infiltrate human genital herpes lesion .
the local cellular immune response to herpes simplex virus ( hsv ) be important in the control of recurrent hsv infection .
the antiviral function of infiltrate cd4-bearing t cell may include cytotoxicity , inhibition of viral growth , lymphokine secretion , and support of humoral and cd8 response .
the antigen recognize by many hsv -specific cd4 t cell localize to genital hsv -2 lesion be unknown .
t cell recognize antigen encode within map unit 0 . 67 to 0.73 of hsv dna be frequently recover from herpetic lesion .
expression cloning with this region of dna now show that tegument protein vp22 and the viral dutpase , encode by gene ul49 and ul50 , respectively , be t-cell antigen .
separate epitope in vp22 be define for t-cell clone from each of three patient .
reactivity with the tegument protein encode by ul21 be identify for an additional patient .
three new epitope be identify in vp16 , a tegument protein associate with vp22 .
some tegument-specific cd4 t-cell clone exhibit cytotoxic activity against hsv -infected cell .
these result suggest that herpes simplex tegument protein be process for antigen presentation in vivo and be possible candidate compound for herpes simplex vaccine .
activation of human monocytic cell by treponema pallidum and borrelia burgdorferi lipoprotein and synthetic lipopeptides proceed via a pathway distinct from that of lipopolysaccharide but involve the transcriptional activator nf-kappa b .
there be increase evidence that lipoprotein of treponema pallidum and borrelia burgdorferi be key inflammatory mediator during syphilis and lyme disease .
a principal objective of the present study be to identify more precisely similarity and divergence among lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) - and lipoprotein-lipopeptide- induced immune cell signaling event .
like lp , purify native b. burgdorferi ospa and synthetic analog of ospa , ospb , and two t. pallidum lipoprotein ( tpp47 and tpp17 ) all induce nf-kappa b translocation in thp-1 human monocytoid cell .
acylation of ospa and the synthetic peptide be requisite for cell activation .
polymyxin b abrogate only the response to lp .
by use 70z/3-derived pre-b-cell line either lack or express human cd14 ( the lp receptor ) , it be observe that expression of human cd14 impart responsiveness to lp but not to ospa or spirochetal lipopeptides ( assess by induction of nf-kappa b and expression of surface immunoglobulin m ) .
finally , the biological relevance of the observation that t. pallidum lipoprotein -lipopeptides induce both nf-kappa b and cytokine production in monocyte be support by the ability of the synthetic analog to promote human immunodeficiency virus replication in chronically infected u1 monocytoid cell ; these observation also suggest a potential mechanism whereby a syphilitic chancre can serve a a cofactor for human immunodeficiency virus transmission .
the combined data lend additional support to the proposal that spirochetal lipoprotein and lp initiate monocyte activation via different cell surface event but that the signaling pathway ultimately converge to produce qualitatively similar cellular response .
activation of c-jun n-terminal kinase in bacterial lipopolysaccharide -stimulated macrophage .
activation of macrophage by bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) induce transcription of gene that encode for proinflammatory regulator of the immune response .
previous work have suggest that activation of the transcription factor activator protein 1 ( ap-1 ) be one lp -induced event that mediate this response .
consistent with this notion , we find that lp stimulate ap-1 -mediated transcription of a transfected reporter gene in the murine macrophage cell line raw 264.7 .
a ap-1 activity be regulate in part by activation of the c-jun n-terminal kinase ( jnk ) , which phosphorylates and subsequently increase the transcriptional activity of c-jun , we examine whether lp treatment of macrophage result in activation of this kinase .
lp treatment of raw 264.7 cell , murine bone marrow-derived macrophage , and the human monocyte cell line thp-1 result in rapid activation of the p46 and p54 isoforms of jnk .
treatment with wild-type and rough mutant form of lp and synthetic lipid a result in jnk activation , while pretreatment with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor herbimycin a inhibit this response .
binding of lp - lp binding protein ( lbp ) complex to cd14 , a surface receptor that mediate many lp response , be find to be crucial , a pretreatment of thp-1 cell with the monoclonal antibody 60b , which block this binding , inhibit jnk activation .
these result suggest that lp activation of jnk in monocyte/macrophage cell be a cd14- and protein tyrosine phosphorylation- dependent event that may mediate the early activation of ap-1 in regulate lp -triggered gene induction .
octamer independent activation of transcription from the kappa immunoglobulin germline promoter .
previous analysis of immunoglobulin v region promoter have lead to the discovery of a common octamer motif which be functionally important in the tissue-specific and developmentally regulate transcriptional activation of immunoglobulin gene .
the germline promoter ( ko ) located upstream of the j region gene segment of the kappa locus also contain an octamer motif ( contain a single base pair mutation and refer to a the variant octamer ) which have be show previously to bind oct-1 and oct-2 transcription factor in vitro .
to far elucidate the role of this variant octamer motif in the regulation of germline transcription from the unrearranged kappa locus , we have quantitated the relative binding affinity of oct-1 and oct-2 for the variant octamer motif and determine the functional role of this octamer motif in transcriptional activation .
we find that , although the variant octamer motif bind oct-1 and oct-2 in vitro with 5-fold low affinity than the consensus octamer motif , mutation of the variant octamer motif to either a consensus octamer or non- octamer motif have no effect on transcriptional activation from the germline promoter .
we also find significant difference in activation of germline and v region promoter by kappa enhancer .
our result suggest that the germline promoter and v region promoter differ in their dependence on octamer for activation and respond differently to enhancer activation .
these finding have important implication in regulation of germline transcription as well a concomitant activation of the v-j recombination of the kappa light chain locus .
tuberculosis and chronic hepatitis b virus infection in african and variation in the vitamin d receptor gene .
the active metabolite of vitamin d , 1,25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 , be an important immunoregulatory hormone [ 1 ] .
it effect be exert by interaction with the vitamin d receptor , which be present on human monocyte and activate t and b lymphocyte .
variation in the vitamin d receptor gene be type in 2015 subject from large case-control study of three major infectious disease : tuberculosis , malaria , and hepatitis b virus .
homozygote for a polymorphism at codon 352 ( genotype tt ) be significantly underrepresented among those with tuberculosis ( chi2 = 6.22 , 1 df , p = .01 ) and persistent hepatitis b infection ( chi2 = 6.25 , 1 df , p = .01 ) but not in subject with clinical malaria compare with the other genotype .
therefore , this genetic variant , which predispose to low bone mineral density in many population , may confer resistance to certain infectious disease .
the tax protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 mediate the transactivation of the c-sis/platelet-derived growth factor-b promoter through interaction with the zinc finger transcription factor sp1 and ngfi-a/egr-1 .
transcriptional up-regulation of the c-sis/platelet-derived growth factor-b ( pdgf-b ) proto-oncogene by the tax protein of human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 have be implicate a one possible mechanism of cellular transformation by human t-cell leukemia virus type 1 .
in previous work , we identify an essential site in the c-sis/pdgf-b promoter , tax-responsive element 1 ( tre1 ) , necessary for transactivation by tax .
we also identify sp1 , sp3 , and ngfi-a/egr-1 a the primary nuclear transcription factor bind to tre1 which mediate tax responsiveness .
in the present work , we have investigate the mechanism ( s ) whereby tax transactivates the c-sis/pdgf-b proto-oncogene .
in vitro transcription assay show that tax be able to significantly increase the transcriptional activity of a template contain the -257 to +74 region of the c-sis/pdgf-b promoter .
electrophoretic mobility shift assay analysis show that tax increase the dna binding activity of both sp1 and ngfi-a/egr-1 use a tre1 probe .
analysis of tax mutant show that two mutant , iexc29s and iexl320g , be unable to significantly transactivate the c-sis/pdgf-b promoter .
finally , co-immunoprecipitation analysis reveal that tax be able to stably bind to both sp1 and ngfi-a/egr-1 .
interestingly , co-immunoprecipitation analysis also reveal that tax mutant iexc29s be unable to interact with ngfi-a/egr-1 , whereas tax mutant iexl320g be able to interact with ngfi-a/egr-1 .
transcription of a minimal promoter from the nf-il6 gene be regulate by creb/atf and sp1 protein in u937 promonocytic cell .
nf-il6 be an important transcriptional regulator of gene induce in activate monocytes/ macrophage , and nf-il6 be the only ccaat/enhancer-binding protein ( c/ebp ) family member whose steady-state mrna level increase upon activation of monocyte ( 1 ) .
we show that increase transcription of the nf-il6 gene be responsible , at least in part , for induction of nf-il6 mrna follow activation of u937 promonocytic cell .
we have identify a 104-bp minimal promoter region of the nf-il6 gene that be sufficient for basal and activation-dependent induction of transcription in u937 cell .
this region contain bind site for the camp response element-binding protein/activation transcription factor ( creb/atf ) and sp1 family of transcription factor .
each site be functionally important and contribute independently to transcription of the nf-il6 gene in u937 cell .
lactobacillus and vaginal host defense : activation of the human immunodeficiency virus type 1 long terminal repeat , cytokine production , and nf-kappab .
lactobacillus , a component of the normal vaginal flora , can activate the human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) -1 long terminal repeat ( ltr ) in the jurkat t lymphocyte and thp-1 macrophage cell line .
activation of the ltr in jurkat cell be strongly enhance by vanadate and inhibit by catalase , implicate h2o2 .
in contrast , activation in thp-1 cell occur in the absence of vanadate and be unaffected by catalase .
the active material partition into the phenol layer on hot aqueous phenol extraction .
lactobacillus also increase tumor necrosis factor -alpha and interleukin -1beta production and activate nf-kappab in thp-1 cell and increase tumor necrosis factor -alpha production by human monocyte .
human vaginal fluid specimen have comparable property , which correlate with their bacterial content .
these finding suggest the presence in vaginal fluid of agent ( s ) derive from indigenous bacteria that can activate the hiv-1 ltr , cytokine production , and nf-kappab in cell of macrophage lineage , with possible influence on vaginal physiology and host defense .
blockade of t-cell activation by dithiocarbamates involve novel mechanism of inhibition of nuclear factor of activate t cell .
dithiocarbamates ( dtcs ) have recently be report a powerful inhibitor of nf-kappab activation in a number of cell type .
given the role of this transcription factor in the regulation of gene expression in the inflammatory response , nf-kappab inhibitor have be suggest a potential therapeutic drug for inflammatory disease .
we show here that dtcs inhibit both interleukin 2 ( il-2 ) synthesis and membrane expression of antigen which be induce during t-cell activation .
this inhibition , which occur with a parallel activation of c-jun transactivating function and expression , be reflect by transfection experiment at the il-2 promoter level , and involve not only the inhibition of nf-kappab -driven reporter activation but also that of nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) .
accordingly , electrophoretic mobility shift assay ( emsas ) indicate that pyrrolidine dtc ( pdtc ) prevent nf-kappab , and nfat dna-binding activity in t cell stimulate with either phorbol myristate acetate plus ionophore or antibody against the cd3-t-cell receptor complex and simultaneously activate the binding of ap-1 .
furthermore , pdtc differentially target both nfatp and nfatc family member , inhibit the transactivation function of nfatp and mrna induction of nfatc .
strikingly , western blotting and immunocytochemical experiment indicate that pdtc promote a transient and rapid shuttling of nfatp and nfatc , lead to their accelerate export from the nucleus of activate t cell .
we propose that the activation of an nfat kinase by pdtc could be responsible for the rapid shuttling of the nfat , therefore transiently convert the sustained transactivation of this transcription factor that occur during lymphocyte activation , and show that c-jun nh2-terminal kinase ( jnk ) can act by directly phosphorylating nfatp .
in addition , the combined inhibitory effect on nfat and nf-kb support a potential use of dtcs a immunosuppressant .
hiv-1 envelope glycoprotein induce activation of activate protein-1 in cd4+ t cell [ publish erratum appear in j biol chem 1995 dec 1 ; 270 ( 48 ) : 29038 ]
activation of cd4 positive t cell be a primary requirement for human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv ) entry , efficient hiv replication , and progression to aid , utilize cd4 positive t cell line and purify t cell from normal individual , we have demonstrate that native envelope glycoprotein of hiv , gp 160 , can induce activation of transcription factor , activate protein-1 ( ap-1 ) .
the stimulatory effect of gp160 be mediate through the cd4 molecule , since treatment of gp160 with soluble cd4-igg abrogate it activity , and cd4 negative t cell line fail to be stimulate with gp160 .
immunoprecipitation of the gp 160 -induced nuclear extract with polyclonal antibody to fo and jun protein indicate that ap-1 complex be comprise of member of these family of protein .
the gp160 -induced ap-1 complex be dependent upon protein tyrosine phosphorylation and be protein synthesis-independent .
this stimulation can also be abolish by inhibitor of protein kinase c , but it be unaffected by calcium channel blocker or cyclosporine a .
this gp160 treatment adversely affect the functional capability of t cell : pre-treatment of cd4+ t cell with gp160 for 4 h at 37 degree c inhibit anti-cd3 -induced interleukin-2 secretion .
effect similar to gp160 be see with anti-cd4 mab .
the aberrant activation of ap-1 by gp160 in cd4 positive t cell could result in up-regulation of cytokine contain ap-1 site , e.g. interleukin-3 and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor , and concurrently lead to t cell unresponsiveness by inhibit interleukin-2 secretion .
highly polarize hla class ii antigen processing and presentation by human intestinal epithelial cell .
the high concentration of foreign antigen in the lumen of the gastrointestinal tract be separate from the underlie lymphocyte by a single cell layer of polarize epithelium .
intestinal epithelial cell can express hla class ii antigen and may function a antigen-presenting cell to cd4(+) t cell within the intestinal mucosa .
use tetanus toxoid specific and hla-dr-restricted t lymphocyte , we show that polarize intestinal epithelial cell direct to express hla-dr molecule be able to initiate class ii processing only after internalization of antigen from their apical surface .
coexpression of the class ii transactivator ciita in these cell , which stimulate highly efficient class ii processing without the characteristic decline in barrier function see in polarize monolayers treat with the proinflammatory cytokine gamma-ifn , facilitate antigen processing from the basolateral surface .
in both case , peptide presentation to t cell via class ii molecule be restricted to the basolateral surface .
these data indicate a highly polarize functional architecture for antigen processing and presentation by intestinal epithelial cell , and suggest that the functional outcome of antigen processing by the intestinal epithelium be both dependent on the cellular surface at which the foreign antigen be internalize and by the underlying degree of mucosal inflammation
to be or not to be a responder in t-cell response : ubiquitous oligopeptides in all protein .
amino acid sequence of all protein be essay write in the same language .
accordingly , the same set of word and phrase ( oligopeptides ) appear in totally unrelated protein .
the reason that only certain individual of particular major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) haplotype can mount t-cell response against a given antigen of pathogen be find in the fact that t-cell receptor be design to recognize 18-20 residue-long peptide fragment sandwiched between two alpha-helices of class i or class ii mhc molecule .
at this range of peptide length , most would appear a self , while nonselfness of the remainder be destine to be quite ambiguous , hence create responder and nonresponders .
downstream activation of a tata-less promoter by oct-2 , bob1 , and nf-kappab direct expression of the homing receptor blr1 to mature b cell .
the chemokine receptor , blr1 , be a major regulator of the microenvironmental homing of b cell in lymphoid organ .
in vitro study identify three essential element of the tata-less blr1 core promoter that confer cell type- and differentiation- specific expression in the b cell of both human and mouse , a functional promoter region ( -36 with respect to the transcription start site ) , a nf-kappab motif ( +44 ) , and a noncanonical octamer motif ( +157 ) .
the importance of these site be confirm by in vivo study in gene-targeted mouse deficient of either oct-2 , bob1 , or both nf-kappab subunit p50 and p52 .
in all of these animal , the expression of blr1 be reduce or absent .
in mouse deficient only of p52/ nf-kappab , blr1 expression be unaffected .
thus our data demonstrate that blr1 be a target gene for oct-2 , bob1 , and member of the nf-kappab /rel family and provide a link to the impaired b cell function in mouse deficient for these factor .
salicylate inhibit lipopolysaccharide -induced transcriptional activation of the tissue factor gene in human monocytic cell .
binding of plasma factor vii/viia to the tissue factor ( tf ) receptor initiate the coagulation protease cascade .
tf expression by circulate monocyte be associate with thrombotic and inflammatory complication in a variety of disease .
transcriptional activation of the human tf gene in monocytic cell expose to bacterial lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) be mediate by binding of c-rel /p65 heterodimers to a kappa b site in the tf promoter .
here , we report that a family of anti-inflammatory agent , know a the salicylate , inhibit lp induction of tf activity and tf gene transcription in human monocyte and monocytic thp-1 cell at clinically relevant dos .
furthermore , sodium salicylate block the lp -induced proteolytic degradation of i kappa b alpha , which prevent the nuclear translocation of c-rel /p65 heterodimers .
in contrast , two other nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug , ibuprofen and indomethacin , do not inhibit lp induction of the tf gene .
these result indicate that salicylate inhibit lp induction of tf gene transcription in monocytic cell by prevent nuclear translocation of c-rel /p65 heterodimers .
the clinical benefit of salicylate in the treatment of several disease , include atherosclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis , may be related to their ability to reduce monocyte gene expression .
a negative role for phosphoinositide 3-kinase in t-cell antigen receptor function .
background : a delicate balance between positive and negative regulatory mechanism during t-cell activation determine the specificity and magnitude of an immune response .
phosphoinositide 3-kinase ( pi 3-kinase ) be activate by a diverse set of receptor that determine t-cell function , include the t-cell antigen receptor ( tcr ) , the costimulatory receptor cd28 , and negative regulator of t-cell activation such a ctla-4 .
pi 3-kinase be also regulate by the haematopoietic cytokine that determine t-cell differentiation and lymphocyte proliferation .
pi 3-kinase can thus dynamically influence the outcome of the immune reaction at various stage .
in this study , we investigate the importance of pi 3-kinase in tcr -directed t-cell activation use activate or inhibitory version of pi 3-kinase .
result : certain aspect of tcr response such a the induction of transcriptional activity of ap1 and serum response factor be not affect by expression of the mutant form of pi 3-kinase .
we find , however , that pi 3-kinase profoundly influence the transactivation capacity of ' nuclear factor of activate t cell ' ( nf-at ) elicit by the tcr : expression of an activated form of pi 3-kinase inhibit tcr -mediated nf-at response , whereas expression of a dominant negative mutant of pi 3-kinase potently enhance tcr -controlled nf-at induction .
these effect of pi 3-kinase be not mediate by previously identify pi 3-kinase effector , such a protein kinase b , a positive regulator of pi 3-kinase , or the gtpase rac , and be therefore likely to involve a novel , a yet unknown , effector molecule .
conclusion : our result establish that pi 3-kinase can both positively and negatively regulate t-cell function , and uncover a previously unrecognized function for pi 3-kinase in t cell a a selective negative regulator of tcr -signalling event and therefore a a determinant of t-cell homeostasis .
displacement of an e-box-binding repressor by basic helix-loop-helix protein : implication for b-cell specificity of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain enhancer .
the activity of the immunoglobulin heavy-chain ( igh ) enhancer be restrict to b cell , although it bind both b-cell-restricted and ubiquitous transcription factor .
activation of the enhancer in non- b cell upon overexpression of the basic helix-loop-helix ( bhlh ) protein e2a appear to be mediate not only by the binding of e2a to it cognate e box but also by the result displacement of a repressor from that same site .
we have identify a " two-handed " zinc finger protein , denote zeb , the dna-binding specificity of which mimic that of the cellular repressor .
by employ a derivative e box that bind zeb but not e2a , we have show that the repressor be active in b cell and the igh enhancer be silence in the absence of binding competition by bhlh protein .
hence , we propose that a necessary prerequisite of enhancer activity be the b-cell-specific displacement of a zeb -like repressor by bhlh protein .
t-helper-cell determinant in protein antigen be preferentially located in cysteine-rich antigen segment resistant to proteolytic cleavage by cathepsin b , l , and d .
we report on a computer algorithm capable of predict the location of t-helper-cell epitope in protein antigen ( ag ) by analyse the ag amino acid sequence .
the algorithm be construct with the aim of identify segment in ag which be resistant to proteolytic degradation by the enzyme cathepsin b , l , and d .
these be prominent enzyme in the endocytic pathway through which soluble protein ag enter apc , and resistant segment in ag may , therefore , be expect to contain more t-cell determinant than susceptible segment .
from information available in the literature on the substrate specificity of the three enzyme , it be clear that a cysteine be not accept in any of the s2 , s1 , s1' , and s2' subsites of cathepsin b and l , and not in the s1 and s1' subsites of cathepsin d .
moreover , we have notice that cysteine -containing t-cell determinant in a number of protein ag be particularly rich in the amino acid alanine , glycine , lysine , leucine , serine , threonine , and valine .
by search protein ag for cluster of amino acid contain cysteine and two of the other amino acid we be able to predict 17 out of 23 empirically know t-cell determinant in the ag with a relatively low number of false ( positive ) prediction .
furthermore , we present a new principle for search ag for potential amphipatic alpha-helical protein segment .
such segment accord well with empirically known t-cell determinant and our algorithm produce a low number of false positive prediction than the principle base on discrete fourier transformation previously describe .
ifn-gamma priming of monocyte enhance lp -induced tnf production by augment both transcription and mrna stability .
the induction of cytokine expression in monocyte / macrophage by bacterial endotoxin or lipopolysaccharide be a critical , highly regulate host defence response .
the augmentation of lp response by interferon gamma ( ifn-gamma ) , refer to a priming , be well establish .
however , the mechanism ( s ) by which priming occur be poorly define .
use tumour necrosis factor ( tnf ) induction a a model , experiment be design to analyse in detail the priming effect on the lp response in human monocyte .
priming by ifn-gamma be primarily manifest at the level of tnf mrna accumulation .
ifn-gamma pre-treatment affect the magnitude rather than the sensitivity of the lp response .
priming occur after several hour of treatment , and the primed state be induce by either ifn-gamma or gm-csf , but not m-csf .
prim monocyte transcribe tnf mrna at a high rate than freshly isolate monocyte upon activation with lp .
the increase transcriptional rate correlate with a marked increase in nuclear factor-kappa b activity in these cell a determine by electrophoretic mobility shift assay use a consensus nf-kappa b oligonucleotide .
an additional significant finding be than tnf mrna induce in prim cell be much more stable than in unprimed cell ( t1/2 increase 6-8-fold ) .
consistent with the increase mrna stability , the duration of mrna accumulation be longer follow lp stimulation in prim monocyte , in addition to be of great magnitude .
finally , prim and unprimed cell possess a differential sensitivity to the kinase inhibitor h-89 .
h-89 substantially suppress lp -induced tnf mrna accumulation in unprimed cell , but have no effect on prim monocyte follow lp stimulation .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
transcriptional regulation of the interleukin-2 gene in normal human peripheral blood t cell .
convergence of costimulatory signal and difference from transform t cell .
to study transcriptional regulation in normal human t cell , we have optimize condition for transient transfection .
interleukin-2 ( il-2 ) promoter -reporter gene behavior closely parallel the endogenous gene in response to t cell receptor and costimulatory signal .
a assess with mutagenized promoter , the most important il-2 cis-regulatory element in normal t cell be the proximal ap-1 site and the nf-_kappab site .
both primary activation , with phytohemagglutinin or antibody to cd3 , and costimulation , provide by pair of cd2 antibody or b7-positive ( b cell ) or b7-negative ( endothelial ) accessory cell , be mediate through the same cis-elements .
interestingly , the nuclear factor of activate t cell site be much less important in normal t cell than in jurkat t cell .
we conclude that il-2 transcriptional regulation differ in tumor cell line compare with normal t cell and that different costimulatory signal converge on the same cis-elements in the il-2 promoter .
activation of the human delta-globin gene promoter in primary adult erythroid cell .
restoration of the ccaat box or insertion of an erythroid kruppel-like factor ( eklf ) binding site in the delta promoter activate it expression in several erythroid cell line .
we extend these study use a novel primary human adult erythroid cell ( haec ) system to investigate these effect at the late erythroblast stage .
restoration of the ccaat box at -70 bp , or insertion of an eklf binding site at -85 bp or -95 bp in the promoter significantly increase delta globin gene expression in haec .
our result demonstrate that the altered ccaat box ( ccaac ) and the lack of an eklf binding site in delta-globin contribute to it low level of expression in the haec model as well .
transcriptional basis for hyporesponsiveness of the human inducible nitric oxide synthase gene to lipopolysaccharide/interferon-gamma .
the work report here resolve , at the level of gene regulation , the controversy a to whether or not human monocyte /macrophages can produce nitric oxide ( no ) when stimulate with lipopolysaccharide ( lp ) , with or without co-stimulation by interferon-gamma ( ifn-gamma ) .
study include structural comparison of the promoter for human and mouse inducible no synthase ( inos ) gene , transfection and assay of human and mouse inos promoter region in response to lp +/- ifn-gamma , and electrophoretic mobility shift assay of kappa b response element .
two explanation for hyporesponsiveness of the human inos promoter to lp +/- ifn-gamma be find : ( 1 ) multiple inactivate nucleotide substitution in the human counterpart of the enhancer element that have be show to regulate lp / ifn-gamma induced expression of the mouse inos gene ; and ( 2 ) and absence of one or more nuclear factor in human macrophage ( e.g. , an lp -inducible nuclear factor-kappa b/ rel complex ) , that be ( be ) require for maximal expression of the gene .
the importance of resolution of this controversy be that future research in this area should be direct toward the understanding of alternative mechanism that can result in the successful production of no .
suppression of a cellular differentiation program by phorbol ester coincide with inhibition of binding of a cell-specific transcription factor ( nf-e2 ) to an enhancer element require for expression of an erythroid-specific gene .
induction by hemin increase , while induction with 12-o-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) repress , erythroid-specific gene expression in the human cell line k562 .
we analyze the effect of hemin or tpa induction on the binding and activity of transcription factor at a regulatory element find within the transcriptional regulatory sequence of many erythroid-specific gene .
tpa induction increase the binding of ubiquitous ap-1 factor to this element .
tpa induction inhibit the binding of the lineage limited transcription factor nf-e2 to this transcriptional control element .
hemin induction of k562 cell do not facilitate the binding of nf-e2 to it recognition site .
hemin induction appear to nonspecifically increase the expression of transiently transfected gene in k562 cell .
beyond this nonspecific increase in gene expression , hemin induction act to increase the activity of the lineage limited transcription factor nf-e2 .
the divergent effect of hemin and tpa on gene expression in k562 cell be mediate , in part , by their contrasting effect on the transcription factor nf-e2 .
role of egr1 in regulation of stimulus-dependent cd44 transcription in b lymphocyte .
the immediate-early gene egr-1 encode a transcription factor ( egr1 ) that link b-cell antigen receptor ( bcr ) signal to downstream activation event through the regulation of previously unidentified target gene .
here we identify the gene encode the lymphocyte homing and migration protein cd44 a a target of egr1 regulation in b cell .
bcr -induced increase in cd44 mrna expression and transcription level be show to occur in egr1 -expressing but not in nonexpressing subclones of the b-cell line wehi-231 .
kinetics of egr-1 transcription and the appearance of nuclear egr1 protein precede cd44 induction and occur within 30 min after stimulation in the egr1 -expressing subclone .
a single egr1 binding motif be demonstrate at bp -301 of the human cd44 promoter .
cotransfection of a cd44 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct with an egr-1 expression vector result in a 6.5- to 8.5-fold induction of transcriptional activity relative to an empty expression vector .
the egr1 binding motif be show to be necessary for stimulus-induced expression of a cd44 promoter-chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter construct in nontransformed b lymphocyte and be require for transactivation by an egr1 expression vector in a b-cell line .
these study identify egr1 a an intermediary link bcr -derived signal to the induction of cd44 .
the relevance of these molecular event to bcr signal transduction and antigen-stimulated b-cell-mediated immune response be discuss .
bcl-6 expression during b-cell activation .
translocation involve the bcl-6 gene be common in the diffuse large cell subtype of non-hodgkin 's lymphoma .
invariably , the bcl-6 coding region be intact , but it 5' untranslated region be replace with sequence from the translocation partner .
the present study show that bcl-6 expression be regulate in lymphocyte during mitogenic stimulation .
rest b and t lymphocyte contain high level of bcl-6 mrna .
stimulation of mouse b cell with anti- igm or igd antibody , bacterial lipopolysaccharide , phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate plus ionomycin , or cd40 ligand lead to a five-fold to 35-fold decrease in bcl-6 mrna level .
similar downregulation of bcl-6 mrna be see in human b cell stimulate with staphylococcus aureus plus interleukin-2 or anti-igm antibody and in human t lymphocyte stimulate with phytohemagglutinin .
bcl-6 mrna level begin to decrease 8 to 16 hour after stimulation , before cell enter s phase .
although polyclonal activation of b cell in vitro invariably decrease bcl-6 mrna expression , activate b cell from human germinal center express bcl-6 mrna at level comparable to the level in rest b cell .
despite these similar mrna level , bcl-6 protein expression be threefold to 34-fold high in germinal center b cell than in rest b cell , suggest that bcl-6 protein level be control by translational or posttranslational mechanism .
these observation suggest that the germinal center reaction provide unique activation signal to b cell that allow for continued , high-level bcl-6 expression .
effect of glucocorticoid in rheumatoid arthritis .
diminish glucocorticoid receptor do not result in glucocorticoid resistance .
objective .
lymphocyte of patient with rheumatoid arthritis ( ra ) have diminish receptor density ; thus , patient with ra should show partial resistance to glucocorticoid .
we investigate the glucocorticoid sensitivity of lymphocyte in ra patient compare with healthy subject .
method .
we determine the effect of glucocorticoid on lymphocyte proliferation and cytokine release .
result .
proliferation and cytokine release be inhibit in ra patient to the same extent a in healthy control .
conclusion .
diminish receptor density in ra patient do not result in glucocorticoid resistance .
putative steroid binding domain of the human mineralocorticoid receptor , express in e. coli in the presence of heat shock protein show typical native receptor characteristic .
domain e , consider a the putative hormone binding domain ( hbd ) of the human mineralocorticoid receptor ( hmr ) be express in escherichia coli a a fusion protein with either maltose binding protein ( mbp ) or glutathione s-transferase ( gst ) .
these bacterially-produced mr construct have no steroid binding activity per se .
in fact , heat shock protein association ( hsp ) be require for high affinity ligand-binding of the mr .
after incubation of purify mbp- or gst- hbd with rabbit reticulocyte lysate , know to be rich in heat shock protein , we obtain saturable binding of [3h]aldosterone .
the kd value for aldosterone be 0.3 nm and the bmax = 32 pmol/mg .
hormone binding specificity be assess by competition study with various steroid ligand .
sucrose gradient assay perform with [3h]aldosterone -mbp-hbd reveal complex sediment at 8.3s and 4.9s with [3h]progesterone-mbp-hbd .
western-blot analysis of the sedimentation peak show the concomitant presence of mbp-hbd by a monoclonal anti-mbp antibody , and hsp90 by a monoclonal anti-hsp antibody .
moreover , follow incubation with the anti-rabbit hsp90 monoclonal antibody the sedimenting gradient show a 10.4s sedimenting complex .
these analysis demonstrate that the [3h]aldosterone - mbp-hbd complex be at least associate with hsp90 in reticulocyte lysate and that the hbd of hmr be sufficient to bind hsp90 .
deletion of a relatively short amino- ( 729-766 ) or carboxy- terminal ( 940-984 ) region of the hbd fragment eliminate all steroid-binding property .
overall , these result indicate that the integrity of domain e be necessary and sufficient to bind steroid ligand , agonist or antagonist , with characteristic similar to the entire native mr .
peripheral blood t cell and monocyte and b cell line derive from patient with lupus express estrogen receptor transcript similar to those of normal cell .
objective : to identify and characterize estrogen receptor ( er ) transcript express in immune cell of patient with systemic lupus erythematosus ( sle ) and healthy donor .
method : peripheral blood monocyte and t cell be prepare from patient with sle ( n = 6 ) and healthy donor ( n = 8 ) .
t cell be separate into cd4 and cd8 .
some monocyte and t cell be stimulate with estradiol , pma , and ionomycin .
epstein-barr virus-transformed b cell line ( n = 7 ) and b cell hybridoma ( n = 2 ) establish from patient with sle and a healthy individual be use a a b cell source .
these cell be examine for er mrna by reverse transcription nested polymerase chain reaction .
amplified cdna be sequence by standard method .
result : in all cell test , er mrna be express without prior in vitro stimulation .
partial sequence from exon 1-8 be nearly identical to the publish sequence of the human er mrna .
there be no notable difference in the er transcript between patient and healthy control .
variant receptor transcript lack exon 5 or exon 7 , which encode the hormone binding domain , be identify in the majority of the cell .
precise deletion of the exon suggest that they be alternatively splice transcript .
whether the detected transcript be translate into functional receptor protein remain to be determine .
in vitro stimulation do not affect er mrna expression .
the presence of variant do not correlate with disease activity or medication .
conclusion : monocyte , t cell , and b cell in patient express transcript of the normal wild type er and the hormone binding domain variant in vivo .
infection with theileria annulata induce expression of matrix metalloproteinase 9 and transcription factor ap-1 in bovine leucocyte .
theileria annulata infect bovine leucocyte and result in their reversible transformation such that they become immortalise and metastatic .
the present study describe parasite-induced change in host cell gene expression which have a direct bearing on this transformation process .
t. annulata -infected leucocyte produce a number of novel metalloproteinase activity .
one of these , previously call b1 , be a 97-kda protein which be secrete in large amount and have be purify from protein-free , conditioned medium .
an antiserum to this enzyme be use to isolate a cdna clone .
the predict protein sequence of b1 be 81 % identical to human matrix metalloproteinase 9 ( mmp9 ) , demonstrate that it be the bovine homologue of this enzyme .
rnaase protection assay demonstrate that the mmp9 activity , unique to infected cell , be due to increase mmp9 mrna level .
we also assay the level of transcription factor ap-1 and demonstrate that it be constitutively present in increase amount in theileria-infected cell .
in addition we assay the level of mrna encode c-fos , a common component of ap-1 and observe that it be indeed up-regulated in infected cell .
since ap-1 be implicate in the control of the cell cycle , and mmp9 can confer metastatic property , these result be of considerable significance with respect to the transform phenotype induce by theileria infection .
cell specific expression of human bruton 's agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase gene ( btk ) be regulate by sp1- and spi-1/pu.1-family member .
bruton 's agammaglobulinemia tyrosine kinase ( btk ) be a cytoplasmic tyrosine kinase involve in the human disease x-linked agammaglobulinemia ( xla ) .
the gene be express in all hematopoietic cell with the exception of t-cells and plasma cell .
for this expression pattern the first 280 bp upstream of the major transcriptional start site seem to be sufficient .
in vitro footprinting analysis within this part of the promoter reveal two sp1 binding site as well a a pu-box .
the transcription factor spi-1/pu.1 as well a the closely related factor spi-b bind to the pu-box in b-cells .
in the erythroleukemia cell line k562 , due to the absence of spi-b , only pu.1 bind to the btk promoter .
mutation of either site reduce the expression in transient transfection experiment .
however , mutation of the pu box have no effect in the t-cell line jurkat , where none of the spi-1 family member be express .
in addition spi-b as well a pu.1 be able to transactivate btk expression .
in fetal liver of pu.1-/- mouse , which lack lymphoid and myeloid cell , expression of btk be reduce two- to threefold but not abolish .
collectively this study show that expression of the btk gene be regulate by the combined action of sp1- and pu.1- family member .
tissue transglutaminase-dependent posttranslational modification of the retinoblastoma gene product in promonocytic cell undergo apoptosis .
the retinoblastoma gene product ( prb ) play an important role in control both cell release from the g1 phase and apoptosis .
we show here that in the early phase of apoptosis , prb be posttranslationally modify by a tissue transglutaminase ( ttg ) -catalyzed reaction .
in fact , by employ a novel haptenized lysis synthetic substrate which allow the isolation of glutaminyl-ttg substrate in vivo , we identify prb a a potential ttg substrate in u937 cell undergo apoptosis .
in keep with this finding , we show that apoptosis of u937 cell be characterize by the rapid disappearance of the 105,000- to 110,000-molecular-weight prb form concomitantly with the appearance of a smear of immunoreactive product with a molecular weight of great than 250,000 .
the shift in prb molecular weight be reproduce by add exogenous purify ttg to extract obtain from viable u937 cell and be prevent by dansylcadaverine , a potent enzyme inhibitor .
the effect of the prb posttranslational modification during apoptosis be investigate by determine the e2f-1 level and by isolate and characterize prb -null clone from u937 cell .
notably , the lack of prb in these u937-derived clone render these p53-null cell highly resistant to apoptosis induce by serum withdrawal , calphostin c , and ceramide .
take together , these data suggest that ttg , act on the prb protein , might play an important role in the cell progression through the death program .
phorbol ester reduce constitutive nuclear nf kappa b and inhibit hiv-1 production in mature human monocytic cell .
nf kappa b be a potent mediator of specific gene expression in human monocyte and have be show to play a role in transcription of the hiv-1 genome in promonocytic leukemia .
there be little information available on the response of nf kappa b to cytokine in normal human monocyte .
we have use a 32p-labeled oligonucleotide derive from human immunodeficiency virus ( hiv-1 ) long terminal repeat , which contain a tandem repeat of the nf kappa b binding sequence , a a probe in a gel retardation assay to study this transcription factor .
use this assay , we have detect nf kappa b in extract of nucleus from normal human monocyte .
treatment of normal monocyte with 12-0- tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate ( tpa ) for 4-24 h cause the complete disappearance of nf kappa b from nuclear extract of monocyte .
a similar result be obtain with the mature monocytic leukemia cell line thp-1 .
the constitutive transcription factor sp1 be unaffected by addition of tpa .
the disappearance of nf kappa b from the nucleus be concentration dependent between 10 and 50 ng/ml of phorbol ester .
in thp-1 cell , tpa also induce a new , faster-migrating nf kappa b specie not induce in monocyte .
protein kinase c inhibitor staurosporine , but not cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase inhibitor ha-1004 , also dramatically reduce constitutive level of nuclear nf kappa b .
finally , tpa addition to monocyte infect with hiv-1 inhibit hiv-1 replication , a determine by reverse transcriptase assay , in a concentration-dependent manner .
these result be in striking contrast to the increase in nuclear nf kappa b and hiv-1 replication induce by phorbol ester in promonocytic leukemia cell u937 and hl-60 , and emphasize the importance of study cytokine regulation of hiv-1 in normal monocyte .
cd30 be a cd40 -inducible molecule that negatively regulate cd40 -mediated immunoglobulin class switching in non-antigen-selected human b cell .
we use our monoclonal model of germinal center maturation , cl-01 b cell , to investigate the role of cd30 in human b cell differentiation .
cl-01 cell be igm + igd + cd30 + and switch to igg , iga , and ige when expose to cd40l and il-4 .
switching be hamper by cd30 coengagement , possibly through interference with the cd40 -mediated nf-kappab -dependent transcriptional activation of downstream c(h) gene .
the physiological relevance of this phenomenon be emphasize by similar cd30 -mediated effect in naive b cell .
expression of cd30 by these cell be induce by cd40l but be inhibit by b cell receptor coengagement and/or exposure to il-6 and il-12 .
our data suggest that cd30 critically regulate the cd40 -mediated differentiation of non-antigen-selected human b cell .
novel aldosterone receptor : specificity-conferring mechanism at the level of the cell membrane .
functional study in extra-renal , nonepithelial cell such a smooth muscle cell and more recently circulate human lymphocyte have provide increase evidence that aldosterone produce not only classical genomic effect , but also rapid non-genomic effect on transmembrane electrolyte movement .
these involve activation of the sodium/proton-exchanger of the cell membrane at very low , physiological concentration of aldosterone with an acute onset within 1-2 minute .
a second messenger cascade involve be the inositol-1,4,5-trisphosphate /calcium pathway which respond over the same rapid time course .
such change clearly can not be explain by genomic mechanism , which be responsible for late effect than the membrane-related rapid response .
in addition to it rapid time course the unique characteristic of this new pathway for steroid action include a 10000-fold selectivity for aldosterone over cortisol and the ineffectiveness of spironolactone , classical mineralocorticoid antagonist , a antagonist of the response .
subsequently bind site have be demonstrate in the plasma membrane of human lymphocyte which show pharmacological ( aldosterone specificity ) and kinetic ( high turnover ) property identical with those of the rapid aldosterone effect in the same cell .
sds-page analysis of the receptor protein have show a molecular weight of approximately 50 kd .
the present paper review the data support a new , two-step model for non-genomic and genomic aldosterone effect .
it also suggest a novel specificity-conferring mechanism for mineralocorticoid action at the membrane level .
monocyte tethering by p-selectin regulate monocyte chemotactic protein-1 and tumor necrosis factor-alpha secretion .
signal integration and nf-kappa b translocation [ see comment ]
adhesion molecule that tether circulate leukocyte to endothelial cell may also transduce or modulate outside-in signal for cellular activation , provide an initial regulatory point in the inflammatory response .
adhesion of human monocyte to p-selectin , the most rapidly express endothelial tethering factor , increase the secretion of monocyte chemotactic protein-1 ( mcp-1 ) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha ( tnf-alpha ) by the leukocyte when they be stimulate with platelet-activating factor .
increase cytokine secretion be specifically inhibit by g1 , an anti- p-selectin mab that prevent p-selectin from bind to it ligand ( p-selectin glycoprotein ligand-1 ) on myeloid cell .
moreover , tethering by p-selectin specifically enhance nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappa b ( nf-kappa b ) , a transcription factor require for expression of mcp-1 , tnf-alpha , and other immediate-early gene .
these result demonstrate that p-selectin , through it ligand on monocyte , may locally regulate cytokine secretion in inflamed tissue .
sterol dependent ldl-receptor gene transcription in lymphocyte from normal and cml patient .
sterol regulatory element ( sre ) have be recognize to regulate various key gene cod for especially low density lipoprotein ( ldl ) -receptor , 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl coenzyme a ( hmg-coa ) reductase and hmg-coa synthase know to play a crucial role in the cholesterol feedback mechanism .
the deranged cholesterol feedback mechanism have be widely recognise in initiation as well a progression of various type of cancer include chronic myeloid leukaemia ( cml ) .
consequently , the present study be address to understand this phenomenon and reveal the existence of a unique 47 kda protein factor have affinity for this sre sequence in lymphocyte from normal subject as well a it absence in lymphocyte from untreated cml patient .
however , this factor appear when the cml patient achieve complete haematological remission ( chr ) through alpha-interferon therapy .
far , an inverse relationship be also observe between sterol modulated ldl -receptor gene transcription and the binding affinity of this 47 kda factor to the sre sequence .
base upon these result we propose that alpha-interferon through it receptor initiate phosphatidic acid dependent signalling which in turn regulate the affinity of 47 kda sterol regulatory element binding factor as well a ldl -receptor gene transcription in lymphocyte from cml patient .
an 11-base-pair dna sequence motif apparently unique to the human interleukin 4 gene confer responsiveness to t-cell activation signal .
we have identify a dna segment that confer responsiveness to antigen stimulation signal on the human interleukin ( il ) 4 gene in jurkat cell .
the human il-4 gene , of 10 kilobases , be compose of four exon and three intron .
a cis-acting element ( p sequence ) reside in the 5' upstream region ; no additional dna segment with enhancer activity be identify in the human il-4 gene .
for further mapping purpose , a fusion promoter be construct with the granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor basic promoter contain 60 base pair of sequence upstream from the cap site of the mouse granulocyte/macrophage colony-stimulating factor gene and various length of the 5' upstream sequence of the il-4 gene .
the p sequence be located between position -79 and -69 relative to the transcription start site of the human il-4 gene , and this location be confirm by base-substitution mutation .
the plasmid carry multiple copy of the p sequence show high responsiveness to the stimulation .
the bind protein ( s ) that recognize the p sequence of the il-4 gene be identify by dna-mobility-shift assay .
the binding of nf ( p ) ( a dna binding protein that specifically recognize the p sequence ) to the p sequence be abolish when oligonucleotides carry base substitution be use , indicate that the nf ( p ) interaction be sequence-specific and that binding specificity of the protein parallel the sequence requirement for il-4 expression in vivo .
the p sequence do not share homology with the 5' upstream sequence of the il-2 gene , even though surround sequence of the il-4 gene share high homology with the il-2 gene .
we conclude that a different set of protein recognize il-2 and il-4 gene .
the spatial distribution of human immunoglobulin gene within the nucleus : evidence for gene topography independent of cell type and transcriptional activity .
the three-dimensional positioning of immunoglobulin ( ig ) gene within the nucleus of human cell be investigate use in situ hybridization and confocal microscopy .
the visualization of heavy and light chain gene in b-lymphoid cell show that the three ig gene be differentially and nonrandomly distribute in different nuclear subvolumes : the kappa gene be find to be preferentially confine to an out nuclear volume , whereas the gamma and lambda gene consistently occupy more central position within the nucleus , the lambda gene be more interior when compare with the gamma gene .
the data far show that these overall topographical distribution be independent of gene transcriptional activity and be conserve in different cell type .
although subtle gene movement within those define topographical region can not be exclude by this study , the result indicate that tissue specificity of gene expression be not accompany by drastic change in gene nuclear topography , rather suggest that gene organization within the nucleus may be primarily dependent on structural constraint impose on the respective chromosome .
epstein-barr viral latency be disrupt by the immediate-early brlf1 protein through a cell-specific mechanism .
epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) , the causative agent of infectious mononucleosis , be a human herpesvirus associate with epithelial cell malignancy ( nasopharyngeal carcinoma ) as well a b-cell malignancy .
understand how viral latency be disrupt be a central issue in herpesvirus biology .
epithelial cell be the major site of lytic ebv replication within the human host , and viral reactivation occur in ebv -associated nasopharyngeal carcinoma .
it be know that expression of a single viral immediate-early protein , bzlf1 , be sufficient to initiate the switch from latent to lytic infection in b cell .
cellular regulation of bzlf1 transcription be therefore think to play a key role in regulate the stringency of viral latency .
here we show that , unexpectedly , expression of another viral immediate-early protein , brlf1 , can disrupt viral latency in an epithelial cell-specific fashion .
therefore , the mechanism lead to disruption of ebv latency appear to be cell-type specific .
clone a cdna from human nk/ t cell which cod for a protein with high proline content .
a cdna clone , b4-2 , be isolate from a natural killer ( nk ) minus t cell subtractive library .
the b4-2 clone cod for an mrna of 2061 bp in length .
it encode a deduce 327 aa protein with a calculate molecular mass of 35.2 kda .
searching of b4-2 dna and protein sequence against various database reveal no high homology to other sequence .
however , b4-2 have an unusually high proline content ( 13 % ) , contain a putative nuclear targeting sequence , and have several spxx motif which be frequently find in gene regulatory protein .
one of the stretch of proline in b4-2 closely resemble the ligand for protein with sh3 domain .
northern hybridization data show that b4-2 be not a lymphoid specific gene and be express in a hepatoma cell line and also weakly transcribe or absent in a variety of other cell .
a polyclonal antiserum raise against recombinant b4-2 recognize a 32-34 kda protein in lymphocyte .
decrease il-12 production and th1 cell development by acetyl salicylic acid -mediated inhibition of nf-kappab .
il-12 be a 75-kda heterodimeric cytokine compose of two covalently link p35 and p40 chain .
this pro-inflammatory cytokine play a prominent role in the development of th1 cell-mediated immune response .
th1 cell-mediated immune response have be implicate in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory autoimmune disease .
thus , il-12 appear to be a critical factor in the generation and maintenance of chronic inflammatory condition .
in this study , we investigate the effect of a commonly prescribe anti-inflammatory drug , acetyl salicylic acid ( asa ) , on il-12 production and th1 cell development .
asa be find to inhibit secretion of the il-12 heterodimer as well a p40 monomer by human monocytic cell .
this be associate with the down-regulation of il-12p40 mrna expression .
analysis of the regulation of the p40 gene promoter reveal that asa inhibit nf-kappab activation and binding to the p40-kappab site in the p40 promoter , lead to transcriptional repression of the p40 gene .
addition of asa to an in vitro t helper cell differentiation system , at concentration compatible with plasma level reach during anti-inflammatory therapy , result in reduce development of th1 cell .
these result suggest that the inhibition of nf-kappab activation by asa lead to down-regulation of il-12 production and inhibition of th1 cell development .
il-2 and il-7 induce heterodimerization of stat5 isoforms in human peripheral blood t lymphoblast .
despite difference in t cell response induce by interleukin ( il ) -2 and il-7 , both cytokine modulate t cell function by activation of signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein .
we examine the contribution of the two isoforms of stat5 , stat5a and stat5b , to il-2- and il-7- induced activation of human peripheral blood t lymphoblast .
both cytokine induce assembly of stat5a and stat5b contain complex capable of bind to the interferon-gamma activation sequence ( gas ) , and these complex rapidly translocate ( within 1 min ) into the nucleus of il-2- or il-7- treated cell .
the kinetics of this translocation be delay in il-7 -treated a compare to il-2 -treated cell .
il-2 and il-7 be equivalent in their ability to induce tyrosine phosphorylation of stat5a and stat5b and to facilitate binding of these stats to an immobilize gas element .
both il-2 and il-7 induce substantial amount of stat5a /stat5b heterodimerization .
moreover , we observe constitutive association of stat3 with each stat5 isomer .
these data suggest that il-2 and il-7 induce assembly of stat heterodimers in a similar manner and that subsequent cellular response may be drive by induction of similar set of gene .
use of arsenic trioxide ( as2o3 ) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) : ii .
clinical efficacy and pharmacokinetics in relapsed patient .
the therapeutic effect of arsenic trioxide ( as2o3 ) in the treatment of acute promyelocytic leukemia ( apl ) be evaluate among 15 apl patient at relapse after all-trans retinoic acid ( atra ) induce and chemotherapy maintain complete remission ( cr ) .
as2o3 be administer intravenously at the dose of 10 mg/d .
clinical cr be achieve in nine of 10 ( 90 % ) patient treat with as2o3 alone and in the remain five patient treat by the combination of as2o3 and low-dose chemotherapeutic drug or atra .
during the treatment with as2o3 , there be no bone marrow depression and only limited side effect be encounter .
pharmacokinetic study , which be perform in eight patient , show that after a peak level of 5.54 micromol/l to 7.30 micromol/l , plasma arsenic be rapidly eliminate , and the continuous administration of as2o3 do not alter it pharmacokinetic behavior .
in addition , increase amount of arsenic appear in the urine , with a daily excretion account for approximately 1 % to 8 % of the total daily dose administer .
arsenic content in hair and nail be increase , and the peak content of arsenic could reach 2.5 to 2.7 microg/g tissue at cr .
on the other hand , a decline of the arsenic content in hair and nail be observe after withdrawal of the drug .
we conclude that as2o3 treatment be an effective and relatively safe drug in apl patient refractory to atra and conventional chemotherapy .
activation of the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor promoter in t cell require cooperative binding of elf-1 and ap-1 transcription factor .
the granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor ( gm-csf ) gene have be study extensively a a model system of transcriptional induction during t-lymphocyte activation .
the gm-csf gene be not express in rest peripheral blood t cell but be rapidly induce at the transcriptional level follow activation through the cell surface t-cell receptor .
a highly conserve 19-bp element located immediately 5' of the human gm-csf tata box ( bp -34 to -52 ) , herein call purine box 1 ( pb1 ) , have be show to bind a t-cell nuclear protein complex and to be require for transcriptional induction of the gm-csf gene follow t-cell activation .
the pb1 sequence motif be highly conserve in both human and murine gm-csf gene .
in this report , we demonstrate that the pb1 element alone confer inducibility on a heterologous promoter follow transfection into human jurkat t cell .
in addition , we identify a major pb1 nuclear protein-binding complex that be not present in rest peripheral blood t cell but be rapidly induce follow t-cell activation .
sequence analysis reveal that pb1 be compose of adjacent bind site for ets and ap-1 transcription factor .
in vitro mutagenesis experiment demonstrate that both the ets and ap-1 site be require for binding of the inducible pb1 nuclear protein complex and for the transcriptional activity of this element and the gm-csf promoter in activate t cell .
( abstract truncate at 250 word )
the involvement of multiple tumor necrosis factor receptor ( tnfr ) -associated factor in the signaling mechanism of receptor activator of nf-kappab , a member of the tnfr superfamily .
receptor activator of nf-kappab ( rank ) be a recently identify member of the tumor necrosis factor receptor superfamily and be express on activate t cell and dendritic cell .
it cognate ligand ( rankl ) play significant role in the activation of dendritic cell function and osteoclast differentiation .
we demonstrate here the interaction of rank with tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated factor ( trafs ) 1 , 2 , 3 , 5 , and 6 both in vitro and in cell .
mapping of the structural requirement for traf /rank interaction reveal multiple traf binding site cluster in two distinct domain in the rank cytoplasmic tail .
these traf binding domain be show to be functionally important for the rank -dependent induction of nf-kappab and c-jun nh2-terminal kinase activity .
site-directed mutagenesis demonstrate that these traf binding site exhibit selective binding for different traf protein .
in particular , traf6 interact with membrane-proximal determinant distinct from those bind trafs 1 , 2 , 3 , and 5 .
when this membrane-proximal traf6 interaction domain be delete , rank -mediated nf-kappab signaling be completely inhibit while c-jun nh2-terminal kinase activation be partially inhibit .
an nh2-terminal truncation mutant of traf6 inhibit rankl -mediated nf-kappab activation , but fail to affect constitutive signaling induce by receptor overexpression , reveal a selective role for traf6 in ligand-induced activation event .
transcriptional regulation of the ferritin heavy-chain gene : the activity of the ccaat binding factor nf-y be modulate in heme-treated friend leukemia cell and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation .
the ferritin h-chain gene promoter regulation be analyze in heme-treated friend leukemia cell ( flcs ) and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation .
in the majority of cell line study , the regulation of ferritin expression be exert mostly at the translational level .
however , in differentiate erythroid cell , which must incorporate high level of iron to sustain hemoglobin synthesis , and in macrophage , which be involve in iron storage , transcriptional regulation seem to be a relevant mechanism .
we show here that the minimum region of the ferritin h-gene promoter that be able to confer transcriptional regulation by heme in flcs to a reporter gene be 77 nucleotide upstream of the tata box .
this cis element bind a protein complex refer to a hrf ( heme-responsive factor ) , which be greatly enhance both in heme-treated flcs and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation .
the ccaat element present in reverse orientation in this promoter region of the ferritin h-chain gene be necessary for binding and for gene activity , since a single point mutation be able to abolish the binding of hrf and the transcriptional activity in transfected cell .
by competition experiment and supershift assay , we identify the induce hrf a contain at least the ubiquitous transcription factor nf-y .
nf-y be form by three subunit , a , b , and c , all of which be necessary for dna binding .
cotransfection with a transdominant negative mutant of the nf-ya subunit abolish the transcriptional activation by heme , indicate that nf-y play an essential role in this activation .
we have also observe a differential expression of the nf-ya subunit in heme-treated and control flcs and during monocyte-to-macrophage differentiation .
bik , a novel death-inducing protein share a distinct sequence motif with bcl-2 family protein and interact with viral and cellular survival-promoting protein .
the survival-promoting activity of the bcl-2 family of protein appear to be modulate by interaction between various cellular protein .
we have identify a novel cellular protein , bik , that interact with the cellular survival-promoting protein , bcl-2 and bcl-xl , as well a the viral survival-promoting protein , epstein barr virus -bhrf1 and adenovirus e1b-19 kda .
in transient transfection assay , bik promote cell death in a manner similar to the death-promoting member of the bcl-2 family , bax and bak .
this death-promoting activity of bik can be suppress by coexpression of bcl-2 , bcl-xl , ebv-bhrf1 and e1b-19 kda protein suggest that bik may be a common target for both cellular and viral anti-apoptotic protein .
while bik do not show overt homology to the bh1 and bh2 conserved domain characteristic of the bcl-2 family , it do share a 9 amino acid domain ( bh3 ) with bax and bak which may be a critical determinant for the death-promoting activity of these protein .
a new mouse gene , srg3 , related to the swi3 of saccharomyces cerevisiae , be require for apoptosis induce by glucocorticoid in a thymoma cell line .
we isolate a new mouse gene that be highly express in thymocytes , testis , and brain .
this gene , srg3 , show a significant sequence homology to swi3 , a yeast transcriptional activator , and it human homolog baf155 .
srg3 encode 1,100 amino acid and have 33-47 % identity with swi3 protein over three region .
the srg3 protein contain an acidic nh2 terminus , a myb-like dna binding domain , a leucine-zipper motif , and a proline- and glutamine-rich region at it cooh terminus .
rabbit antiserum raise against a cooh-terminal polypeptide of the srg3 recognize a protein with an apparent molecular mass of 155 kd .
the serum also detect a 170-kd protein that seem to be a mouse homologue of human baf170 .
immunoprecipitation of cell extract with the antiserum against the mouse srg3 also bring down a 195-kd protein that could be recognize by an antiserum raise against human swi2 protein .
the result suggest that the srg3 protein associate with a mouse swi2 .
the srg3 protein be express about three time high in thymocytes than in peripheral lymphocyte .
the expression of anti-sense rna to srg3 mrna in a thymoma cell line , s49.1 , reduce the expression level of the srg3 protein , and decrease the apoptotic cell death induce by glucocorticoid .
these result suggest that the srg3 protein be involve in the glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis in the thymoma cell line .
this implicate that the srg3 may play an important regulatory role during t cell development in thymus .
stat3 recruitment by two distinct ligand-induced , tyrosine-phosphorylated docking site in the interleukin-10 receptor intracellular domain .
recent work have show that il-10 induce activation of the jak -stat signaling pathway .
to define the mechanism underlie signal transducer and activator of transcription ( stat ) protein recruitment to the interleukin 10 ( il-10 ) receptor , the stat protein activate by il-10 in different cell population be first define use electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
in all cell test , il-10 activate stat1 and stat3 and induce the formation of three distinct dna binding complex that contain different combination of these two transcription factor .
il-10 also activate stat5 in ba/f3 cell that stably express the murine il-10 receptor .
use a structure-function mutagenesis approach , two tyrosine residue ( tyr427 and tyr477 ) in the intracellular domain of the murine il-10 receptor be find to be redundantly require for receptor function and for activation of stat3 but not for stat1 or stat5 .
twelve amino acid peptide encompass either of these two tyrosine residue in phosphorylated form coprecipitated stat3 but not stat1 and block il-10 -induced stat3 phosphorylation in a cell-free system .
in contrast , tyrosine-phosphorylated peptide contain tyr374 or tyr396 do not interact with stat3 or block stat3 activation .
these data demonstrate that stat3 but not stat1 or stat5 be directly recruit to the ligand-activated il-10 receptor by bind to specific but redundant receptor intracellular domain sequence contain phosphotyrosine .
this study thus support the concept that utilization of distinct stat protein by different cytokine receptor be dependent on the expression of particular ligand-activatable , tyrosine-containing stat docking site in receptor intracellular domain .
the activity of the ccaat-box binding factor nf-y be modulate through the regulate expression of it a subunit during monocyte to macrophage differentiation : regulation of tissue-specific gene through a ubiquitous transcription factor .
in this study , we analyze the regulation of nf-y expression during human monocyte to macrophage maturation .
nf-y be a ubiquitous and evolutionarily conserve transcription factor that bind specifically to the ccaat motif present in the 5' promoter region of a wide variety of gene .
we show here that in circulate monocyte , nf-y binding activity be not detect on the ccaat motif present in the promoter of gene such a major histocompatibility complex ( mhc ) class ii , gp91-phox , mig , and fibronectin , whereas during macrophage differentiation , a progressive increase in nf-y binding activity be observe on these promoter .
analysis of nf-y subunit expression indicate that the absence of nf-y activity in circulate monocyte be cause by a lack of the a subunit .
furthermore , addition of the recombinant nf-y a subunit restore nf-y binding .
we show that the lack of nf-ya protein be due to posttranscriptional regulation and not to a specific proteolytic activity .
in fact , nf-ya mrna be present at the same level at all day of monocyte cultivation , whereas the protein be absent in freshly isolate monocyte but be progressively synthesize during the maturation process .
we thus conclude that the nf-y a subunit play a relevant role in activate transcription of gene highly express in mature monocyte .
in line with this conclusion , we show that the cut/cdp protein , a transcriptional repressor that inhibit gpc91-phox gene expression by prevent nf-y binding to the caat box , be absent in monocyte .
effect of prostaglandin e2 on th0-type human t cell clone : modulation of function of nuclear protein involve in cytokine production .
the effect of prostaglandin e2 ( pge2 ) on cytokine production and proliferation of the cd4+ human helper t cell clone sp-b21 be investigate .
in cell stimulate with anti-cd3 mab , pge2 inhibit cell proliferation and the production of all the cytokine examine .
addition of ril-2 fully restore the proliferative response and partially restore the production of il-4 and il-5 , but not that of other cytokine .
in contrast , in cell stimulate with phorbol myristate acetate ( pma ) / a23187 , pge2 enhance the production of il-4 and il-5 , and only partially inhibit the production of other cytokine .
therefore , the effect of pge2 vary depend on the mode of t cell activation , and the il-4 and il-5 be regulate differently from other cytokine .
in a mobility shift assay , only the nf-kappa b ( p50 /p50 ) homodimer be observe in a complex form with the kappa b sequence in unstimulated sp-b21 cell .
when cell be stimulate with anti-cd3 mab or pma /a23187 , a complex formation of nf-kappa b ( p50 /p65 ) heterodimer with the kappa b sequence be induce .
interestingly , pge2 or di-butyryl ( bt2 ) camp abolish the binding of nf-kappa b ( p50 /p65 ) heterodimer to the kappa b sequence in cell stimulate with anti-cd3 mab but not with pma /a23187 .
our result suggest that the target of pge2 action be a component in the signal transduction pathway lead to the activation of protein kinase c .
however , the inhibition of the t cell activation signal by pge2 be selective .
pge2 enhance the complex formation with nf-at , ap-1 and cle0 sequence when the cell be activate by either anti-cd3 mab or pma /a23187 stimulation .
it seem therefore that pge2 , by elevate camp level , interfere with the activation pathway for nf-kappa b but not for nf-at , ap-1 or cle0 binding protein .
the winged-helix transcription factor trident be express in actively divide lymphocyte .
we recently identify the winged-helix transcription factor trident and describe it expression pattern in synchronize fibroblast .
we have now study trident expression in cell line , differentiate thymocytes and in lymphocyte derive from peripheral blood .
during t cell differentiation , expression peak in the actively divide immature single positive cell .
in peripheral blood lymphocyte , expression of trident mrna be absent , but could be induce upon stimulation with mitogen in vitro .
these observation imply a function for trident in divide lymphocyte .
c-rel and p65 subunit bind to an upstream nf-kappab site in human granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor promoter involve in phorbol ester response in 5637 cell .
to far clarify the complex transcriptional regulation of the human gm-csf gene , which be extensively investigate in activate t cell , we have study the role of an upstream nf-kappab like site in the 5637 non-lymphoid cell line , which derive from a bladder carcinoma and constitutively produce gm-csf .
this sequence , name the a element , have an active role on gm-csf transcription and be responsive to the tumor promoter pma in transient transfection experiment .
we describe here a heterodimeric binding complex of nf-kappab subunit ( c-rel and p65 ) which be identical to the one obtain use the hiv-ltr-kappab site a recognition sequence and different from the one ( c-rel and p50 ) observe with nuclear extract from mo t-lymphoid htlv-ii infected cell .
immobilization and recovery of fusion protein and b-lymphocyte cell use magnetic separation .
a new approach to facilitate immobilization and affinity purification of recombinant protein and select human b lymphocyte have be develop .
use magnetic bead with attach dna contain the escherichia coli lac operator , fusion protein comprise the dna-binding lac repressor could be affinity-purified and recover by gentle elution condition , such a with a lactose analogue or by enzymatic mean use either deoxyribonuclease ( dnase ) or restriction endonuclease .
the result show for the first time that a dna-binding protein can be use for affinity purification of fusion protein a exemplify by the specific and gentle recovery of beta-galactosidase and alkaline phosphatase from bacterial lysates use immunomagnetic separation .
the approach be far extend to cell separation by the efficient recovery and elution of human cd37 b lymphocyte from peripheral blood .
leiomyosarcoma of the vulva : report of a case .
a 52-year-old female present with a progressively enlarge vulvar mass .
pathological evaluation reveal a high-grade vulvar leiomyosarcoma .
immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study be perform to support the diagnosis .
in an effort to well understand the biology of this tumor additional immunohistochemical study for the protein product of p53 tumor suppressor gene and estrogen receptor expression by tumor cell , as well a the type of immune cell infiltrate the tumor be perform .
tumor cell show an overexpression of p53 protein and be estrogen receptor -positive .
macrophage and t and b lymphocyte infiltrate the tumor in moderate number with occasional lymphoid aggregate formation .
this study be the first attempt to well understand the biology of these tumor .
involvement of transcription factor yb-1 in human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i basal gene expression .
sequence which control basal human t-cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) transcription likely play an important role in initiation and maintenance of virus replication .
we previously identify and analyze a 45-nucleotide sequence ( downstream regulatory element 1 [ dre 1 ] ) , +195 to +240 , at the boundary of the r/u5 region of the long terminal repeat which be require for htlv-i basal transcription .
we identify a protein , p37 , which specifically bind to dre 1 .
an affinity column fraction , contain p37 , stimulate htlv-i transcription approximately 12-fold in vitro .
we now report the identification of a cdna clone ( 15b-7 ) , from a jurkat expression library , that bind specifically to the dre 1 regulatory sequence .
binding of the cdna fusion protein , similarly to the result obtain with purify jurkat protein , be decrease by introduction of site-specific mutation in the dre 1 regulatory sequence .
in vitro transcription and translation of 15b-7 cdna produce a fusion protein which bind specifically to the htlv-i +195 to +240 oligonucleotide .
the partial cdna encode a protein which be homologous to the c-terminal 196 amino acid of the 36-kda transcription factor , yb-1 .
cotransfection of a yb-1 expression plasmid increase htlv-i basal transcription approximately 14-fold in jurkat t lymphocyte .
on the basis of the molecular weight , dna-binding characteristic , and in vivo transactivation activity , we suggest that the previously identify dre 1 -binding protein , p37 , be yb-1 .
ap-1 derive from mature monocyte and astrocyte preferentially interact with the htlv-i promoter central 21 bp repeat .
characterization of the cellular transcription factor interact with the human t cell lymphotropic virus type i ( htlv-i ) long terminal repeat ( ltr ) be essential to dissect the mechanism involve in viral transcription that may be pertinent to the oncogenic and neuropathogenic process associate with htlv-i infection in both the immune and nervous system .
electrophoretic mobility shift ( em ) analysis utilize oligonucleotides homologous to each of the 21 bp repeat element react with nuclear extract derive from cell line of lymphocytic , monocytic , neuronal , and glial cell origin have demonstrate differential binding of cellular factor to the three 21 bp repeat ( 1-4 ) .
atf/creb and sp family member interact with the 21 bp repeat to form dna-protein complex common to all cell type examine .
however , a unique dna-protein complex be detect when the promoter central 21 bp repeat be react with nuclear extract derive from either the u-373 mg glioblastoma cell line or the thp-1 mature monocytic cell line .
base on nucleotide sequence requirement and immunoreactivity , we demonstrate that this dna-protein complex be comprise of the ap-1 component , fo and jun .
[ ngfi-b/nur77 family involve in t-cell apoptosis ]
ngfi-b/nur77 be a member of the steroid receptor superfamily .
ngfi-b/nur77 and it related gene constitute a family and the ngfi-b/nur77 family consist of three subtypes , name nur77 alpha , nur77 beta , nur77 gamma .
we clone human nur77 beta cdna , call tinur .
although ngfi-b/nur77 be essential for tcr-mediated apoptosis in t-cell hybridoma , the report on nur77 knock-out mouse and nur77 dominant negative transgenic mouse suggest that there be a functional redundancy among ngfi-b/nur77 family .
ngfi-b/nur77 bind to the response element by monomer or heterodimer with retinoid x receptor ( rxr ) .
assume that 9-cis-retinoic acid ( 9-cis-ra ) inhibit tcr-mediated apoptosis , nur77 may cause apoptosis by monomer in the absence of 9-cis-ra and may inhibit apoptosis by heterodimer with rxr in the presence of 9-cis-ra .
nf-m ( chicken c/ebp beta ) induce eosinophilic differentiation and apoptosis in a hematopoietic progenitor cell line .
caat/enhancer binding protein ( c/ebps ) be transcriptional activator implicate in the differentiation process of various cell lineage .
we have show earlier that nf-m , the chicken homolog of c/ebp beta , be specifically express in myelomonocytic and eosinophilic cell of the hematopoietic system .
to investigate the role of nf-m in hematopoietic cell lineage commitment , we construct a conditional form of the protein by fuse it to the hormone binding domain of the human estrogen receptor .
this construct be stably express in a multipotent progenitor cell line transform by the myb-ets oncoprotein .
we report here that both nf-m -dependent promoter construct and resident gene could be activate by addition of beta-estradiol to the nf-m -estrogen receptor express progenitor .
at the same time , we observe a down-regulation of progenitor-specific surface marker and the up-regulation of differentiation marker restricted to the eosinophil and myeloid lineage .
in addition to the onset of differentiation , cell death be induce with typical apoptotic feature .
our result suggest that nf-m play an important role in commitment along the eosinophil lineage and in the induction of apoptosis .
treatment of hl60 cell with various combination of retinoids and 1 alpha , 25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 result in differentiation towards neutrophil or monocyte or a failure to differentiate and apoptosis .
it be well document that treatment of serum-grown hl60 cell with 10(-7) m all-trans retinoic acid ( all-trans ra ) induce neutrophil differentiation , whereas treatment with 10(-7) m 1 alpha , 25 dihydroxyvitamin d3 ( d3 ) induce differentiation towards monocyte .
in recent investigation , use serum-free grown hl60 cell , we observe that all-trans ra , at 10(-7) m , do not induce neutrophil differentiation and that all-trans ra , at 10(-8) m , reduce the d3 concentration require for monocyte differentiation to 5 x 10(-9) m .
in this study , co-operative interaction between all-trans and 9-cis ra and d3 which promote neutrophil and monocyte differentiation of hl60 cell have be analyse in detail .
treatment of serum-free grown hl60 cell with 5 x 10(-7) m all-trans ra or 9-cis ra result in sub-optimal neutrophil differentiation ( up to 25 % mature cell ) .
a show for all-trans ra , 9-cis ra cooperate with d3 to promote monocyte differentiation .
culture of hl60 cell in 5 x 10(-7) m 9-cis ra together with a wide range of concentration of d3 result in promotion of neutrophil differentiation at 10(-15)-10(-12) d3 , a failure to differentiate and apoptosis at 10(-11)-10(-10) m d3 , follow by co-operativity between 9-cis ra and 5 x 10(-9) m d3 in induce monocyte differentiation in the absence of neutrophil differentiation .
similar result be obtain when hl60 cell be treat with 5 x 10(-7) all-trans ra together with a wide range of concentration of d3 .
cross titration analysis of the effect of 9-cis ra and d3 on hl60 cell differentiation be undertake to determine the boundary of the concentration of each agent , alone and in combination , that give rise to optimal neutrophil and monocyte differentiation of hl60 cell .
the observe cooperativities between either 9-cis ra or all-trans ra and d3 have important implication for the use of combination of these agent in differentiation therapy .
transcription factor of t and b lymphocyte -- basic research and clinical perspective for gastroenterology .
tissue specific regulation of gene expression by transcription factor be a fascinating new field in molecular immunology .
this review summarize data on specific regulation of promoter and enhancer by nuclear trans-acting factor in lymphocyte .
the structural class of transcription factor be describe and basic method for detection and analysis of transcription factor be detail .
furthermore , the most important trans-acting factor of t and b lymphocyte ( e.g. nf-kb , nf-at and stat family ) and their functional importance be describe .
several method for specific down-regulation of transcription factor be show that may be relevant to treatment of human disease .
the data be discuss with regard to their potential clinical relevance for gastroenterology .
regulation of glucocorticoid receptor in human mononuclear cell : effect of glucocorticoid treatment , cushing 's disease and ketoconazole .
glucocorticoid receptor ( gcr ) be determine by a whole cell assay in human mononulear leukocyte ( hmnl ) from control subject , patient receive glucocorticoid therapy for systemic disease and cushing 's disease patient with or without ketoconazole therapy .
prolonged corticosteroid treatment result in down-regulation of gcr , while the mean level of gcr in cushing 's disease be normal .
in this group , however , receptor level and morning plasma cortisol value show a negative correlation , indicate a subtle down-regulatory effect .
furthermore , gcr be unaltered after these patient receive ketoconazole , in spite of a marked reduction in morning plasma cortisol and urinary free cortisol .
we also observe that ketoconazole be a weak competitor of gcr in intact cell , although it significantly inhibit [3h] dexamethasone binding in cytosolic preparation from rat tissue .
the result suggest that gcr in hmnl be down-regulated by synthetic steroid give in vivo , but they show very mild down-regulation in hypercortisolemic patient suffer from cushing 's disease .
finally , we do not observe either up-regulation or antagonism of gcr by ketoconazole treatment , at the time that cortisol level of patient with cushing 's disease be reduce .
this indicate that the beneficial effect of ketoconazole in cushing 's disease be due to adrenal cortisol suppression and not to interaction with gcr of target cell , and that the process of gcr regulation in hmnl be a complex phenomenon await far elucidation .
nasal nk- and t-cell lymphoma share the same type of epstein-barr virus latency a nasopharyngeal carcinoma and hodgkin 's disease .
nasal t/nk-cell lymphoma can be far separate into those of natural killer ( nk ) cell lineage or of t-cell lineage , with difference in cellular phenotype , t-cell receptor ( tcr ) gene rearrangement and tcr transcript expression .
both nk- and t-cell subtypes be closely associate with epstein-barr virus ( ebv ) .
in this study , ebv gene expression be determine in 23 case of nasal lymphoma ( nl ) by in situ hybridisation ( ish ) , reverse transcriptase -polymerase chain reaction ( rt-pcr ) and immunohistochemistry ( ih ) .
of the 23 case , 19 be classify a nk-cell and 4 a t-cell tumour .
ish for ebv -encoded small non-polyadenylated rna show that all case , whether nk or t , harbour ebv in virtually all tumour cell .
rt-pcr demonstrate that nl of both subtypes express ebnai of the quk splice pattern , the latent membrane protein , lmp 1 and 2 and the bamhi a rightward transcript in the absence of ebna2 mrna , compatible with the latency type ii pattern .
in addition , analysis of ebv protein expression by ih reveal a heterogeneous pattern of ebv gene expression at the single-cell level consist of both lmp1+ and lmp1- tumour cell , suggest a mixture of latency i and ii .
although 2 early lytic transcript , bzlf1 and bhrf1 , be also detect in 13 and 10 case , respectively , the lack of zebra staining in any case indicate that these lytic transcript be most likely express by rare cell in the biopsy enter lytic cycle .
the viral transcriptional pattern similar to that of nasopharyngeal carcinoma and hodgkin 's disease suggest that ebv can exploit common regulatory mechanism for gene transcription in diverse host cell type .
down-regulation of immunogenic protein ( ebna2-ebna6 ) in nasal lymphoma may enable tumour cell to evade host cytotoxic t-cell surveillance .
tpl-2 induce il-2 expression in t-cell line by trigger multiple signaling pathway that activate nfat and nf-kappab .
the tpl-2 kinase activate the nuclear factor of activate t cell ( nfat ) and induce il-2 expression in t-cell line .
here we show that the activation of the il-2 promoter by tpl-2 be inhibit by mutant signal molecule that inhibit the mitogen-activated protein kinase ( mapk ) or the calcineurin /nfat pathway and be promote by combination of signal molecule that activate these pathway .
we , therefore , conclude that signal generate by the convergence of the mapk and the calcineurin /nfat pathway be necessary and sufficient for the activation of the il-2 promoter by tpl-2 .
the activation of both the il-2 promoter and an nfat -driven minimal promoter be show to depend on signal transduce by raf1 .
however , it be only the il-2 promoter whose activation by tpl-2 be fully block by the dominant negative mutant mek1s218/222a and the mek1/mek2 inhibitor pd098059 .
since the activation of nfat be mapk -dependent these finding suggest that the activation of mapk by tpl-2 be either independent or only partially dependent on mek1 and mek2 .
in addition , they suggest that the activation of the il-2 promoter be under the control of not only nfat but also a second factor whose activation be mek -dependent .
experiment in cos-1 and el-4 cell confirm both hypothesis and reveal that the second factor activate by tpl-2 be nf-kappab .
while the activation of the il-2 promoter and an nfat -driven minimal promoter by tpl-2 be fully block by the dominant negative mutant nfat delta418 , it be only partially block by the calcineurin inhibitor cyclosporin a suggest that the tpl-2 -mediated nfat activation be under the control of a combination of calcineurin- dependent and independent pathway .
both pathway be fully block by bcl-2 or bcl-x(l) .
cis-acting sequence require for inducible interleukin-2 enhancer function bind a novel ets-related protein , elf-1 .
the recent definition of a consensus dna binding sequence for the ets family of transcription factor have allow the identification of potential ets binding site in the promoter and enhancer of many inducible t-cell gene .
in the study describe in this report , we have identify two potential ets binding site , ebs1 and ebs2 , which be conserve in both the human and murine interleukin-2 enhancer .
within the human enhancer , these two site be located within the previously define dnase i footprint , nfat-1 and nfil-2b , respectively .
electrophoretic mobility shift and methylation interference analysis demonstrate that ebs1 and ebs2 be essential for the formation of the nfat-1 and nfil-2b nuclear protein complex .
furthermore , in vitro mutagenesis experiment demonstrate that inducible interleukin-2 enhancer function require the presence of either ebs1 or ebs2 .
two well-characterized ets family member , ets-1 and ets-2 , be reciprocally express during t-cell activation .
surprisingly , however , neither of these protein bind in vitro to ebs1 or ebs2 .
we therefore screen a t-cell cdna library under low-stringency condition with a probe from the dna binding domain of ets-1 and isolate a novel ets family member , elf-1 .
elf-1 contain a dna binding domain that be nearly identical to that of e74 , the ecdysone-inducible drosophila transcription factor require for metamorphosis ( hence the name elf-1 , for e74-like factor 1 ) .
elf-1 bind specifically to both ebs1 and ebs2 in electrophoretic mobility shift assay .
it also bind to the purine-rich cd3r element from the human immunodeficiency virus type 2 long terminal repeat , which be require for inducible virus expression in response to signalling through the t-cell receptor .
take together , these result demonstrate that multiple ets family member with apparently distinct dna binding specificity regulate differential gene expression in rest and activate t cell .
lymphoid cell resistance to glucocorticoid in hiv infection .
in human infect with the hiv-1 virus there may be a disproportionate severity of sign and symptom of illness compare to the fraction of cd4+ infected t-lymphoid cell .
in part , this may be due to altered intercellular signalling system and intracellular signal transduction .
glucocorticoid be well known for their effect on the vitality and function of lymphoid cell .
patient with hiv infection often show elevated circulating level of cortisol , suggest some misfunction in the regulatory system that maintain the level of this critical hormone .
at the cellular level , it be know that both acute hiv infection and glucocorticoid can cause apoptotic cell death in thymic lymphocyte .
however , chronically hiv -infected cell appear to be resistant to glucocorticoid-evoked cell death .
glucocorticoid receptor -ligand binding study on patient ' cell have show reduce affinity between the receptor binding site and test steroid .
in vitro , chronically hiv -infected cell of the lymphoid cem line display resistance to glucocorticoid-induced apoptosis .
these cell show reduce number of bind site with little alteration in apparent affinity between ligand and receptor .
thus it appear that there may often be malfunction of the normal glucocorticoid response in hiv -infected cell probably due to altered interaction between the glucocorticoid receptor and it hormone .
such alteration may have clinical consequence , include the possibility of a relatively long life span of infected cd4+ t-lymphocytes , as well a systemic effect of chronically elevated cortisol level .
a human putative lymphocyte g0/g1 switch gene homologous to a rodent gene encode a zinc-binding potential transcription factor .
g0s24 be a member of a set of gene ( putative g0/g1 switch regulatory gene ) that be express transiently within 1-2 hr of the addition of lectin or cycloheximide to human blood mononuclear cell .
comparison of a full-length cdna sequence with the corresponding genomic sequence reveal an open reading frame of 326 amino acid , distribute across two exon .
potential phosphorylation site include the sequence psptspt , which resemble an rna polymerase ii repeat report to be a target of the cell cycle control kinase cdc2 .
comparison of the derive protein sequence with those of rodent homologs allow classification into three group .
group 1 contain g0s24 and the rat and mouse tis11 gene ( also know a ttp , nup475 , and zfp36 ) .
member of this group have three tetraproline repeat .
group 1 and 2 have a serine-rich region and an " arginine element " ( rrlpif ) at the carboxyl terminus .
all group contain cysteine- and histidine-rich putative zinc finger domain and a serine-phenylalanine " sfs " domain similar to part of the large subunit of eukaryotic rna polymerase ii .
comparison of group 1 human and mouse genomic sequence show high conservation in the 5' flank and exon .
a cpg island suggest expression in the germ line .
g0s24 have potential site for transcription factor in the 5' flank and intron ; these include a serum response element .
protein and genomic sequence show similarity with those of a variety of protein involve in transcription , suggest that the g0s24 product have a similar role .
pentoxifylline for the treatment of infection with human immunodeficiency virus .
cytokine dysregulation in human immunodeficiency virus type 1 ( hiv-1 ) infection have be document in numerous study and have be cite a an important component in the pathogenesis of this retroviral infection .
pharmacological modification of cytokine dysregulation , therefore , have be suggest a a therapeutic modality for hiv-1 infection .
dr. dezube of beth israel hospital ( boston ) concisely review the state of our knowledge regard the effect of pentoxifylline on expression of tumor necrosis factor-alpha , a cytokine know to influence hiv-1 replication and to play a possible role in the clinical manifestation of advanced infection with this virus .
pentoxifylline , a trisubstituted xanthine derivative , have be use to decrease blood viscosity and be reasonably well tolerate by most recipient of the drug .
result of preliminary study , many of which be conduct by dr. dezube , suggest that use of this agent in combination with antiretroviral compound may prove useful in the treatment of patient with hiv-1 infection .
glucocorticoid resistance in chronic asthma .
glucocorticoid pharmacokinetics , glucocorticoid receptor characteristic , and inhibition of peripheral blood t cell proliferation by glucocorticoid in vitro .
a total of 37 chronic , severe , nonsmoking asthmatic patient with documented reversible airway obstruction be classify a glucocorticoid-sensitive or -resistant on the basis of change in fev1 , fvc , and peak expiratory flow ( pef ) after oral prednisolone .
the resistant patient show no significant improvement in airflow limitation .
phytohemagglutinin ( pha ) -induced proliferation of peripheral blood t lymphocyte from the sensitive but not the resistant asthmatic patient be significantly ( p less than 0.01 ) inhibit by dexamethasone ( 10 ( -7 ) mol/l ) , reflect a shift of the dose-response curve .
when all the asthmatic patient be analyze together , there be a significant correlation between the degree of sensitivity of t cell to dexamethasone and the clinical responsiveness to prednisolone ( p less than 0.01 ) .
no difference be observe between six of the sensitive and resistant patient in the clearance of plasma prednisolone derive from orally administer prednisone .
peripheral blood mononuclear cell glucocorticoid receptor be also characterize in five sensitive and seven resistant patient .
the number and binding affinity of these receptor could not account for the observe difference in the susceptibility of these cell to functional inhibition by dexamethasone in vitro .
these result suggest that clinical glucocorticoid resistance in chronic asthma do not reflect abnormal glucocorticoid clearance but may be due at least partly to a relative insensitivity of t lymphocyte to glucocorticoid .
this lack of sensitivity be unexplained but be not attributable to abnormality of cellular glucocorticoid receptor .
inhibition of dexamethasone binding to human glucocorticoid receptor by new world primate cell extract .
to determine if new world primate express an inhibitor that influence glucocorticoid receptor ( gr ) binding characteristic , we examine [3h]dexamethasone binding in cytosol prepare from b95-8 lymphoid cell , derive from the cotton top tamarin ( saguinus oedipus ) , in combination with cytosol prepare from human or rat tissue .
b95-8 cytosol inhibit specific binding of [3h]dexamethasone ( p < 0.01 ) when mix with cytosol prepare from either a human lymphoid cell line ( hl ) or rat thymus .
the inhibitory activity be heat labile and trypsin sensitive .
peak inhibitory activity be find in the 150-200 kd fraction after sephacryl g-200 ultrafiltration .
scatchard analysis of [3h]dexamethasone binding use mixed cytosol show a diminish gr apparent binding affinity when compare to hl cytosol .
kinetic study use mixed cytosol indicate that b95-8 cytosol do not affect the apparent dissociation rate of [3h]dexamethasone .
these data demonstrate that b95-8 cell contain a competitive inhibitor that prevent binding of dexamethasone to it cognate receptor .
dimethyldithiocarbamate inhibit in vitro activation of primary human cd4+ t lymphocyte .
dithiocarbamates ( dtc ) , a diverse group of industrial and therapeutic chemical , have be report to inhibit , enhance or have no effect on the immune system .
these apparent inconsistency reflect the complexity of the dtcs biological activity and be probably due in part to difference in dose , route of exposure , animal specie use and/or specific compound test .
the study describe herein be undertake to investigate the immunotoxicity of one member of this family , dimethyldithiocarbamate ( dmdtc ) .
we demonstrate that 0.1-0.5 microm dmdtc inhibit tnf-alpha -induced activation of nf-kappab in primary human cd4+ t cell .
this inhibition be not accompany by a loss in viability , and dmdtc -treated t cell retain other active signaling pathway throughout the exposure duration .
the inhibition of nf-kappab be apparently permanent a dmdtc -treated t cell do not regain normal tnf-alpha activation , even after 72 h in culture .
dmdtc do not appear to alter nf-kappab directly a pre-incubation of nuclear extract with dmdtc do not diminish binding activity of this protein .
we far demonstrate that 0.1-0.5 microm dmdtc inhibit intracellular il-2 production and decrease surface expression of cd25 ( the alpha subunit of the il-2 receptor ) in t cell stimulate with phorbol ester .
these data demonstrate that dmdtc be a potent immunosuppressive compound in vitro .
